{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lynn_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Lynn R NDE 5320","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lynn R NDE 5320  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lynn R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2795 Lynn R NDE 5320  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					January 22, 2009 I was hit by a drunk driver in a truck on my way to work at about 10:30 pm. I was in a Ford Explorer and he was in a small truck. He hit my driver door; his truck had become airborne from hitting a curb, so the impact was slightly above the frame of my truck. I've said after looking at pictures of the accident that if he had aimed for the door he couldn't have done better. The police report said he was doing upwards of 80mph. I don’t remember the impact or anything else happening, (besides being in the ‘cocoon’ of light) until the paramedics were taking me out of my Explorer. I do remember hearing the medics say they were going to move me and I remember hearing my voice reassuring them that I was ok and they could go ahead and move me. Although I don't remember feeling any pain my body, it had fractures in numerous places. My pelvic area had nine fractures. All of my left ribs were broken into pieces. My skull was fractured and my diaphragm was torn nearly in half. One of my work shoes was torn off during the accident. I have scars on my left hand, (from being dragged along the broken windshield) and there are also scars on my right foot and ankle from the shoe being torn off.

During the time before impact and until much later, I was in a place of soft, golden light. I was so very relaxed and content. The light was all around me in a type of hazy curtain or cocoon. I was watching these small bubbles travel up the curtain of light. I asked myself if those bubbles could be all the prayers that had gone up for me all my life. Or were they my prayers? They looked sort of like bubbles going up the side of a champagne glass. I never really knew what they were, then or now. I leaned back in a relaxing position, expecting to see my biological Dad, who had passed away a few years earlier, to walk through the curtain, take my hand, and lead me through the curtain. I felt certain he was just on the other side of the curtain (or cocoon like material) and I was content to wait on him to put in an appearance.  I was waiting for what seemed days (although I wasn't impatient - just content to be waiting), then I finally looked to my left and downward. I saw my husband standing with my children and my son-in-law, who was holding my one grandchild. As I was watching them all standing together, a light seemed to come out of each of them. The light appeared to be coming from them in rays of different colors. I seemed to know somehow that the rays coming from them were their love for me. I knew then that I couldn't go with my Dad, but had to stay here for my family.

The next thing I was aware of was the nurses waking me up and asking me how I was feeling. Soon a doctor walked into the room (the doctor who had repaired my diaphragm) and asked me if I knew why I was in the hospital. The nurses had already explained that I had been in an accident, so I could tell him that much at least. As he went on to explain further I was shocked to realize I had been held in a coma for the past few weeks. As they cared for me and then went on their way, I realized I remembered ‘glimpses’ of my family being there. Some I only remembered hearing their voices, others seeing their faces, and some I just somehow ‘knew’ had been there. As different ones came to visit and talk with me I kept telling them about a light that I had been inside of and that I felt no impact of the wreck and no pain; just peacefulness and contentment. One day, when my parents (who had adopted me when I was just 4 years old) came for their usual visit, Dad said, ‘I saw that light you were in!’ I was incredulous and just happy to be believed and not be thought of as a nut case! They showed me the picture he was talking about. In the local newspaper, a shot of my Explorer had a huge light over the hood – it looked like a small sun. This experience left me with no fear of death, and a longing to be in that contented state again. Although I wanted to stay where I was, I was also completely happy to come back and finish my work here. It's hard to explain to family and friends that wonderful contentment and peacefulness I felt. There just doesn't seem to be enough human words to convey how deeply I felt.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'January 22, 2009'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Acciden. tDirect head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Except when I saw my family as the rays of colored light was coming out of them.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my family and the rays of colored light that were coming out of them.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed as though days passed, although I was completely content and not impatient at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light I was in was very bright, but still seemed soft and golden. It didn't hurt my eyes at any time.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I could see my Dad's form as though he were standing just on the other side of the ‘cocoon’ or curtain.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light seemed to be all around me. It was like I was floating in it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I seemed to be floating in a reclined position in this "cocoon" of golden light.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme contentment and profound love coming from my family.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have had thoughts about different instances that came to be true. I haven't said anything to anyone about this.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I knew I could not cross through the curtain (or cocoon I seemed to be inside), but my Dad could come across to me if he wanted to.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more open to different religions, although I don't follow any one organized religion. I think we have to have the differences to reach everyone so they will understand that We are God and He is Us. That's what love is.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more open to different religions, although I don't follow any one organized religion. I think we have to have the differences to reach everyone so they will understand that We are God and He is Us. That's what love is.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt as though love for one another was more important than we realize and we have so much more love inside us than we show! There isn't a ‘Judgment Day’ as I had been raised to believe. We judge ourselves, every day. When we die, it's just another step into more life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It’s kind of hard sometimes because it has made me less selfish. I see this in others and have a hard time putting up with it! I want to explain to them about love and that we're all in this together, whether we like it or not.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The depth of contentment was unlike any feeling I've ever felt.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The most meaningful was seeing the love coming from my family for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At first I was ‘matter of fact’ about it. Then different people kept telling me it was just the pain medications the doctors had me on that made me think I had an NDE. After having terrible hallucinations from the meds I could tell them I KNEW the difference!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it happened because it has changed my outlook on many aspects of my life. I have no fear, at all, of death. I look forward to it, but I still love my life here with my family. I have grown closer to my loved ones than ever before.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had a ‘waking dream’ or something, but I am not sure what it was. I saw three different people who had passed away. I could hear them talking and had a communication with the only one who seemed to be able to see me at first. As I asked where the third person was I looked to the right and saw him walking up to join the other two. He then acknowledged me and waved saying, ‘Right here, little girl!’ This was the nickname he had called me before he passed away.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None. It seemed complete      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lynn_r_nde.html