{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lynne_nde.html","mytitle":"Lynne NDE 856","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lynne NDE 856  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lynne NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						350  Lynne NDE  856  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I can recall laying in an operating room on a cold white table.  My mother was there along with the doctor and a nurse.  I remember the doctor saying that I was dead.  I was above everything, watching it all.  My mother said that she was glad that I was dead. (I confronted her with this about thirty-plus years later and she turned absolutely white.)  I then went into a warm tunnel that was very bright (like the aurora borealis) and welcoming with a person sitting on a chair.  It was so peaceful and so wonderful.  I didn't hurt anymore, and I could run and breathe and I loved it.  I was told by this soul that I had to go back to earth to teach others.  I didn't want to go back.  I wanted to stay.


I read my obituary later that week.  My death had been expected because I was so ill with asthma and had been for many years.


I wonder if the little scar above my left breast has anything to do with a procedure the doctors did to bringing me back to life.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death I had asthma, and spent most of my childhood under an oxygen tent.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My spirit was floating above, and I was watching my body below.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I knew it was 'time' away from 'time'.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The tunnel was bright and light and shimmered like an aurora borealis; blue tones, warm yellows.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Have no idea who he was.  Just a very loving soul - incredible peace and love emanated - he said I must go back as I had things I had to teach.  I figured I was only EIGHT, leave me alone and let me STAY!!

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See above.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I was just told that I had things to teach others.  I guess it's true, because over the years I've had many people tell me that I've taught them things (but, mostly things that they were made to learn, kicking and protesting every inch of the way).  I seem to be a catalyst for change.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was made to go back to my body and I was angry.  Why should I go back to where I wasn't wanted on earth?

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Anglican

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe in God, but not religion.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have a hypersensitivity to people.  I feel their emotions too clearly.  I felt the need to 'turtle in' when I was working, otherwise I couldn't stand it.  It was like walking around with raw skin.  I seem to have an ability to heal.  I'm also a mother earth type - I got pregnant against all odds, and yes, I was on the pill, for all the good that it did!  I also seem to have a hypersensitive body.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best part was knowing and feeling the love and warmth and lack of pain.  There were no bad parts.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I am very careful who I share this with.  One odd thing.  I never shared this experience when I was a child.  Somehow, I knew it wasn't safe to do so.  I don't think it's my first NDE.  I think I had one when I was much younger. I had a lot of high fevers as a child and they used to toss me out in the snow to cool me down.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I tried to recreate it by attempting suicide later on in my teens.  I didn't have a repeat of the NDE and was quite disappointed.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lynne_nde.html