{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lyndall_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Lyndall W NDE 7387","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lyndall W NDE 7387  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lyndall W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3757 Lyndall W NDE 7387  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I came home from hospital after giving birth to a baby girl.  Seven days later, I had hemorrhage and was rushed to hospital. I lost 21 pints of blood and received blood infusions through arms and legs.   Had hysterectomy. Wile loosing the blood, even though I must have appeared to the outside world to be unconscious, I was aware of everything going on around me in great detail including the woman in bed beside me is ICU and what was said to her.  Such as this lady is dying, so we have to look after her at the moment.  One of the nurses was crying.  They spoke of my just giving birth and were upset for my daughter. 

I noticed that the Doctor was surrounded in a shining silver light. I was aware of my body being surrounded by a beautiful blue light.  I felt as though I was held in the arms of Jesus or some incredibly  loving energy, similar to that of a baby being loved and held by its mother, although clearer. I was not afraid at all and in some ways very alert.  All pain disappeared. I felt the energy moving up my body and was conscious of wanting it to move out through my head.  I felt, or heard myself humming a sound  similar to the sound Om, I recognized this after I came around. At some point, I was aware of my life passing before my eyes and I was judging the events impartially. I was aware of a panel of people advising me.  I was asked if I wanted to continue on or go back. It felt as though reasons were presented to me for a case to return to the body.  I  believe that I wanted to move on into this loving space.  Yet, I decided that I would come back for my new baby. Once decided, I move instantly back into the body. 

I had two other children and a husband at home. Another reason that came into my mind was that I had never spent money freely. Later, I thought this thought was quite unusual.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  16 Feb 1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth.  Other: I am not totally aware of circumstances as it was at a country hospital

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I have not had this event verified but I was very aware of what was going on in the room.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was aware of all things happening at the same time. Even what was said individually wile many speaking at the same time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I moved from alertness of the physical surroundings and earthly people into an inner focus of my previous life experiences. At that time I was not aware of the outer physical, but was aware of all things happening at the same time. Even what was said individually wile many speaking at the same time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The experience while I was still in my body surrounded by the blue light was slow and comforting.  When I became unaware of the physical body, the events of my life flashed before me.  The panel of beings explained things and helped me decide on the outcome.  Although, at no time did they force me to come back to the body.  This was my decision.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see what was going on at all parts of the room. I had the viewpoint as from above or as if I had several eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was fully aware of what everyone was saying even though my eyes were closed and there was a lot of external movement.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     After being surrounded with the blue light, I left though the opening in my head and sped to a place were I saw a panel of beings who showed me my life experiences.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright light blue

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a space that was unlike any experienced on earth.  I was not aware of building or the like. The experience with the other beings was very focused.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very calm and protected by a presence that was not earthly.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I was aware that I had to come back and I knew about my daughter, but I can't remember anything else.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I believe I saw scenes from the future especially related to my daughter but I can recall these in detail.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I felt the boundary between continuing to another place and returning to my physical body

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I came back to life to look after my daughter.  I felt that there was something in the future that I was needed for, to some way save her life.  This turned out to be true. I also felt the need to spend money.  Still working on that one!  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I had been researching all faiths to find the truth of human existence.  I had experienced death twice in my early life.  Once from drowning and another time by swallowing someone else's tablets around the age of two years.  I was always  interested in religion even though both my parents were agnostic.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I am primary Christian but believe that all faiths carry an essence of truth. I follow many of the values related to buddhism and see them as a very practical way to live. I believe that we are all interconnected and interrelated vibrating with the creative impulse behind manifestation.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was not aware that I had any prior beliefs other than a hope that there was more to life than met the eye

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Became confident about a life after death

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered a panel of beings.  I am not aware of knowing them in my outer earthly light.  They seemed to be very wise and guided me through the experience.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I felt an essence that I associated  with Jesus.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No     I do not remember experiencing this but I do have a firm belief that we have existed many times before.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I was very aware of a mystical loving energy that surrounded not only me but was also assisting those who were looking after me.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I was aware of an energy that was not myself.  This energy was all loving and pervasive.  It did not have a form such as related to pictures in the bible.  This energy was separate to the panel of beings who assisted me with my viewing of my life and decision to return.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I was aware that I had to come back but other than as state above re my daughter I cant remember anything else.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     I don't remember anything specific

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I was fully aware that I still had a body which was not the physical body.  I was aware of my own intelligence being separate.  I was aware that this intelligence did not need a physical presence to exist.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I am aware that I was shown why things had happened in my life but I don't remember details

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I experienced the energy of pure divine love.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     I am not afraid of death but still am afraid of pain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain I was young.  I believe that we have to work out any relationship in the best way we can to clear away as much negativity as we can. I believe that those in our lives are here to show us our own inner weaknesses. They act as mirrors to that which is hidden deeply within.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   This even happened forty years ago.  It is still clear in my mind. I do not remember other life events as clearly.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     Always aware of others thoughts.  Was aware of beings before experience but not sure if true or fantasy.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of love was very powerful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have often spoken to others who are close to death, about this experience and the feeling of love and protection. They felt calmed by the information.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I don't remember

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was very clear on my mind, unlike any other experiences.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience has not faded with time

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Possibly experiences during meditation

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It seems pretty good.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lyndall_w_nde.html