{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lynn_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Lynn M NDE 20152","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lynn M NDE 20152  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lynn M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						264  Lynn M NDE  20152  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I died from an asthma attack.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    'April 4, 2002'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I sensed I was in my light body, like looking at a galaxy of pure pulsating energy. I was extremely excited at meeting myself at the purest form, I was, my light body, inside a crystalline form that spun so fast it was like being inside a golden bubble. I felt totally safe and very normal state of being. My earth body just wasn't in the picture at all.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was more completely aware of who I am at that time than I ever felt, fully conscious throughout the journey, omnipresent.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed like I was out there in my light body for an eternity, in earth time I was showing no signs of life for forty minutes.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Like a Pop or rushing tone, it was more like a tone, and then I was in my light body.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was unlike anything I've ever read about, near death experiences. There were other light bodies around me, some larger energies, some smaller and faster, different colors, some like me. It was like a cosmic welcome wagon, I was never alone I always had other lights with me.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     There was this excitement and we seemed to dance around each other in our light bodies, I felt very connected by our pulsating, I was aware of being connected to everything thru this pulsation, now looking back I believe it to be our concept of God, the supreme energy. I can't say there was any relatives or guides or angelic creatures only light energies.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   But before I actually got out further into the cosmos, I sensed going thru a massive light energy I think now it was our sun.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It’s hard to describe, I sensed everything at once and couldn't tell a separation of the five senses.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Pure elation, very normal, like this was my true pure essence.  Immense JOY.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I had a sense of free will, but in coming back, wondered why? I wanted to know a lot and remember, it flashed though back as soon as I thought of questions, like why are we here? To do an earth experience. To communicate, on that spectrum of polarity I could say I love you or I hate you it's all about the spectrum of experience. Our earth planet is going through a shift in energy and so are we and all life on this planet. The earth has a crystalline structure around it like the one I was in.  It was spinning so fast it appears to be a golden orb surrounding it, a light that keeps it intact. There was major undulation or bubbling around the area of the Middle East mainly, and also around Africa.  That the pulsing is everywhere and everything is connected to the pulse. That there is an energy that doesn't want the pulse to continue, sensed that energy wants to change the dream (as it were). That this is the hardest thing our souls would ever do, to choose to be here in this reality, that just taking your first breath is a miracle and very hard. We are all heroes being here on earth.  If everyone sensed this, we would encourage each other instead of hating or fearing one another. We haven't been told how magnificent we are and how courageous we are, the closest doctrine of religion would be the Tao, but all religions speak in metaphor and the truth is there in each, it just describes it differently. We aren't what we appear to be, we are just in earth suits, like going to your closet and picking out a dress. This isn't the end ever of our soul experiences we are eternal beings connected by a supreme energy LOVE, it all about the pulse. In regards to the energy that doesn't want the pulse to continue, I don't know anymore, but why, when it feels so natural and blissful would any energy want to change it.  Oh, one more thing there were all kinds of mother ships in our solar system, docked up observing our planet. I never saw any ET's or had contact, just aware of them coming back.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes, once out past the sun I could see a distant star and in a thought I'd be in an entirely different part of space with new energy beings and a whole new color or spaces cape.  It was a sense of freedom. The closest visual would be like in the movie contact, where she dropped down into that machine they built and she time warped into space.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     There is a shift in energy about to happen within the next ten-twenty years. It’s natural and it’s going to happen to every living thing including our sentient planet earth, like moving up an octave, to experience life on that frequency. It's by choice were all here to bring the change into the next level.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt while out there I had total free will, and had no desire to come back in. It wasn't a decision, it just happened (much to my surprise). I did ask why? To communicate, share this experience with those that want to hear. I was at first when back in my body a bit annoyed, but honored and now except it, I want to witness this transformation and help others as much as I can, not to fear it. Coming back was like walking through a bathtub of Jell-O, it's very dense energy here and very hard, that's why now I see it as a total miracle we are here at all, of all we create with our hands and thought, and it’s just awesome.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Big one, I not afraid of death anymore. And I'm not afraid to speak up and talk the truth as I know through this experience, never to force or stand on a pulpit, but if people want to know what I experienced I'll tell them. I think that's why I came back, I received a tremendous gift. My concerns are everyone around not fearing it as well, to get to your soul business do what you came here to do and to not be paralyzed by negative energy.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   The reality I was in was so unlike the one here and now, the colors were different indescribable, the tones or sounds I felt them rather than heard them, I was transported out into the cosmos, not just our area of the cosmos but to others light-years away.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Just before my body died, I had a day with telepathic empathy, I could read others thoughts and emotions. I thought I was having a nervous breakdown, and then my breathing became difficult. There's a pattern to this, On September 11, 2001, another asthma attack, quite suddenly came on and I was in the hospital when the news broke of the attacks. That was weird, the day of 4-4-2002, I was taking a friend to have surgery at a nearby hospital, and so the asthma is brought on by noticing others worries or panic. I only felt a slight attacks coming on since, especially in January and February of 2003, now I just focus on not taking it on and just pray for the most benevolent outcome, rather than my own will.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part is that now I know who I really am. I am pure light energy, and I am a part of everything else, there are no divisions. The worst part is what to do with the information and how to use it. What if I get another attack during a crisis and I'm not helping out but being helped? I really want to be back in my light body, but I know I'll be there again eventually and only that pulse knows when that is to happen. I came here to do my part and I won't cop out on it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My closest friends and others that want to hear about it. My students, teens at the time were astonished and grateful, we became very close and I saw a sense of their hopelessness diminish. I think that those and some have told me, it helped them become less afraid of both life and death.  Oh, the nurses while in the hospital all sat on the bed and listened intently.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I've covered a lot already.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I believe you asked appropriate questions and concise comprehensive ones.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lynn_m_nde.html