{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lynn_e_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Lynn E Probable NDE 4905","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lynn E Probable NDE 4905  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lynn E Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2505 Lynn E Probable NDE 4905  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My childhood home was heated by a coal furnace which my mother and father would tend. As a very young child, my crib and bed were situated beside the chimney wall. Almost on a daily basis, the room would have the odor of what the family called 'coal gas'. Of course, today, with the knowledge of how gas fumes can cause illness or often death, I wonder if my bed would have been placed there, since it is highly toxic to humans and animals.

I was constantly plagued with headaches, nausea, and body aches.  I was considered an ill child since I had headache, nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and fatigue on a daily basis. I have since learned they are the symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning.

One particular night, shortly before my parents converted to gas heat, I was again sick in the bed. I could smell the coal gas permeating the brick wall. I remember kneeling on the bed and going close to the wall to smell the odor, I do not know why.

Then the strangest thing happened. Though I had never heard a choir singing or known of a near death experience, I remember hearing the most beautiful singing I had ever heard. I wanted to hear more of it, I could hear people talking and calling my name. This was very inviting to me, even as a child. I knew I wanted to be where the music and singing was, and felt no fear whatsoever. My name was said many times 'Lynn, Lynn, Lynn.' Then I heard another voice. It was firm and authoritative. 'Now is not the time, she must go back, she has work to do.'

I remember waking up, being ill, and never had that experience again. Shortly after that incident, the coal furnace was replaced by gas heat and the headaches, nausea, dizziness and fatigue left.

This memory has stayed in my mind for over fifty years; I am sixty-three now. I have no doubt it happened and it was not a dream.

Immediately after, I became very spiritual, even at that early age. I would go under my covers with a transistor radio and listen to Christian broadcasts. Today I am a Born Again Christian in a Baptist Church.

I've shared this incident only a few times in my lifetime. After it was over I considered the experience slightly foreboding at times, while at other times quite positive and enlightening.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  approx. 1955

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction.  Gas fumes from coal furnace  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Fumes from coal furnace.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I heard the choir singing and chanting my name.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I heard the choir singing and chanting my name.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The singing was incredibly clear and enlightening, as was the chanting of my name. I wasn't sensing it in my ears; it was similar to what I'd now call 'another dimension'.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I don't know who the people were.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I remember seeing a choir and a quite a few people. Since my bedroom was dark, I imagine there was light surrounding them.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I remember "seeing" a choir of people.  The color was pink, I think.  The choir sang more beautifully than I've ever heard even till today.  I knew they were far away, but I wanted to be where they were.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intrigue, love, enchantment, peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It made me more aware of God. Till today I hunger for the spiritual.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I knew they (the choir and people) were 'there'. I was 'here'. In order to be 'there' all I had to do was agree. It was very tempting.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None - though mother was Episcopalian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have pursued religion since with a hunger. Not a fanatic, but deep respect and love for God.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have pursued religion since with a hunger. Not a fanatic, but deep respect and love for God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Heightened awareness, call it ESP, I at times can sense things that will happen to the amazement of friends and family. I never tried to hide that ability, only the NDE connected to it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No, the entire experience was meaningful and significant. I have never been able to shake the memory.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Forty years.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Since being a child I have read about others having a similar experience. Reviewing the past, my illnesses and living conditions, I feel the fumes may have overcome me if I did not hear the voice saying 'Now is not the time, she must go back, she has work to do.'

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lynn_e_probable_nde.html