{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 4821","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n39_apr_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N39 April 1887","mylang":"de"}
No. XXXIX.-VoL. ilL APRIL, 1887.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members ann Associates •. .•
Meeting of Council .. . • •• .•
PhantaSms of the Living. .. .. ..
Cases Received by the Literary Committee
Correspondence .. .. .. •• ..
Supplementary Library Ca.talogue ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
PAGE
•• 81
81
82
85
iii
96
CHAMBERS, MISS, St. Baldred's Tower, North Berwick, N.B.
STURGIS, JULIAN, 2, Gloucester-place, Portman-square, London, W.
ASSOCIATES.
BERREY, WALTER F. M., Caius College, Cambridge.
BOUCHER, MRS., 44, Flanders Road, Bedford Park, Chiswick.
CAIRD, MRS., 29, Broadhurst Gardens, Finchley New Road, South
Hampstead, London, N.W.
CROWTHER, WILLIAM F., Watton Vicarage, Hull.
GREEN, MISS MARIAN, The High School, Spring Mount, Blackburn.
MURRAY, JOHN HENRY, late Captain 39th Regiment, Askfield, Beau
Parc, Co. Meath.
OWEN, REV. HUBERT, Bucknall Rectory, Stoke-upon-Trent.
POWER, MISS HELEN, 19, Spring Street, Paddington, London, W.
RAILTON, CHARLES W., Woodlands, Alderley Edge, Cheshire.
ROBERTS, WILLIAM JOHNSON, 146, Pembroke Road, Dublin.
TuRNER, H. H., M.~., Shurland House, 9, Humber Road, Westcombe
Park, London, S.E.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 4th of March, the
following Members were present :-Messrs. Walter H. Coffin, Edmund
Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and J.
Herbert Stack. Mr. Stack was voted to the chair.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Two new Members and eleven new Associates, whose nll.Ill.es and
a.ddresses are given above, were elected.
One volume was on the table as a present to the Library, for which
a. vote of thanks was passed to the donor.
G
Digitized by Google
82 Journal of Society fO'1' Psychical Res~a/rch. [April, 1887.
The cash account for the previous month was presented in the
usual form.
The House and Finance Committee presented a report containing
an estimate of the Income of the Society for the year, and-a scheme of
Expenditure. After consideration, the recommendations of the Com-
mittee were substantially agreed to.
It was agreed that a General Meeting be held in the latter part of
April, on a day convenient to the President. [Saturday, the 23rd,
was subsequently fixed on.]
The next Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, the 1st of
April.
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
By HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD.
In the Phantasms oj the Living, I., 165, Mr. Gurney, arguing for
the general trustworthiness of the narratives received, incidentally
remarks on the total absence of "marvels, which in the popular view
a.re quite as likely to be true as the facts actua.lly reported, and which
the general traditions of the subject would connect with those facts."
" But our reporters," the a.uthor continues, " one and all eschew them.
To take, for instance, the group of cases which the reader will probably
find to be the most interesting, as it is also the largest in our collection
-apparitions at the time of death. Why sheuld not [such apparitions]
produce physical effects-shed tears on the pillow and make it wet,
open the door and leave it open, or leave some tangible token of their
presence 7 It is surely noteworthy that we have not had to reject, on
grounds like the8e, a single narrative tJJl~ich on otl~ grounds would
have been admitted."
-The passage here italicised indicates the arbitra.ry limits within
which those responsible for the book would seem to confine their field
of inquiry. They investigate with unwearied diligence the evidence of
a.ny phenomena that can be forced, by whatever ingenuity or violence,
under their elastic formula of telepathy, but the notion of physical
effects produced by an incorporeal agent (whatever the evidence by
which it may be supported) is as completely Anathema Maranatha to
them as were the facts of mesmerism to the scientific professors of 50
years ago. It is true that, according to Mr. Gurney, they have not had
to reject, on this apriori principle, a single narrative which on other
grounds would have been admitted; but what chance would "other
grounds" have had of a fair consideration, where the narrative laboured
under the fatal blot of running counter to this foregone conviction of
the superstitious absurdity of the narration' It would have been
interesting to a large section of the Society to see a specimen or
Digitized by Google
April,1881.], Journal of Society f01' Psychical Research. 83
two of the objectionable narratives which were rejected on " other
grounds."*
Fortunately one narrative (No. 321, II., p. 202) has by some unex-
plained chance escaped rejection,although it gives the clearest testimonyt
to the performance by an apparition of an act precisely analogous (as
far as evidence of objective reality is concerned) to the wetting of one's
pillow with tears, or leaving a door open.
In 1853 Dr. and Mrs. Gwynne were living in a house haunted by
unaccountable noises-sighs and heavy breathing close to the side of
the bed, for instance. One night they both awoke to see a draped
figure passing along the foot of the bed towards the fireplace. " I had
the impression," says Dr. Gwynne, "that the arm was raised, pointing
with the hand towards the mantel-piece, on which a night-light was
burning. Mrs. Gwynne at this moment seized my arm and tlte light
was extinguisl,ed. The night-light in question was relit and placed in
a toilette basin, and burned naturally. I tried to convince myself that
it might have been a gust of wind down the chimney that put the light
out." Mrs. Gwynne says that her husband's statement accords with
her recollection, "but I distinctly saw the hand of the phantom placed
over the night-light, which was at once extinguished. Dr. Gwynne, on
the appearance of the phantom, in order to calm my agitated state,
tried to reason with me and to persuade me that it might have been
the effects of the moonlight and clouds passing over the openings of the
shutters, and possibly that a gust of wind might have extinguished the
light, but I knew differently. When we had both been awakened at
the same moment apparently, and together saw that unpleasant figure,
tall and, as it were, draped like a nun, deliberately walk up to the
mantel-piece and put out the light with the right hand, there could be
no mistake about it." It must have been a violent gust indeed that
would have put out a night-light resting on the shelf of the mantel-
piece; but it is obvious that Dr. Gwynne had no more real belief in the
imaginary gust of wind than he had that the figure, which he jumped
out of bed to seize, was merely the shadow of a passing cloud.
In another place, Mr. Gurney is so possessed by his theory of
* The "other grounds" were simplyevidential. When cases were rejected,
it was not because of any particular facts which they contained, but because of
evidential flaws an<l weaKness, which would equally have excluded them how-
ever- much their contents might have hannonised with the telepathic theory.
The commonest ground of exClusion was the fact that the evidence was third or
fourth hand.-E.G.
t H by "cleareRt" testimony Mr. Wedgwood means "most convincing,"
I must di1fer from him. Recollections, written down long afterwards, of a.
startling occurrence observed on suddenly waking from I!leep in a semi-dark
room, though they may be worth attending to, do not constitute evidence of a
high rank.-E.G.
G 2
Digitized by Google
84 Journal of Society fm' Psychical Research. [April,l881.
telepathy that he treats as out of the question a belief in the possibility
of phenomena of clairvoyance, externally similar to those which he
accounts for on that theory, but lying beyond the ground which
telepathy can be made to cover. In Vol. I., p. 375, after narrating two
instances where a lady in sleep had clairvoyance of the contents of
notes that. had not met her bodily eyes, he says that circumstances
made it specially unlikely that the correspondence of the dreams with
the reality was read back. "And if not," he continues, "the cases
seem typical examples of telepathic clairvoyance; for no one probably
will suppose that the percipient could have obtained a similar vision
of notes with whose writers, and iI!- whose contents, she had no
concern."
As it happens, I have had indubitable proof in my own family of
several instances of' precisely such clairvoyance as tho author here
regards as beyond the bounds of rational belief.* At one time my
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Alfred Wedgwood, had frequently clairvoyant
insight of the contents of letters on their way to herself or to others,
and in one instance of the contents of the morning's newspaper,
without any reference to the question whether they concerned her
or not.
In the 57th number of Light (4th February, 1882), I had published
an account of a night spent in a haunted house, and on the 17th, when
I went downstairs about 8 o'clock to my study to dress, I found a.
letter on the hall-table, as usual, waiting for me, frem a lady at Mine-
head, whose name I had never heard of, about the narrative in Light,
which had greatly interested her. At that time my son Alfred and his
wife were occupying different bedrooms, and when Alfred came down
to breakfast at 9 he had not seen his wife, who was keeping her room.
But soon after I had returned to my study Alfred burst eagerly in upon
me, asking if I had received a letter that morning" all about ghosts,"
as his wife had seen such a letter coming for me the preceding night.
On going up to her I found that before going to sleep she had seen a.
hand coming from behind the screen at the foot of her bed, holding a.
letter in more sheets than one, and in a hand she did not know. The
next morning at post-time she was looking out for the letter, and
wondering who it could be from, when something said to her, "It is
not for you; it is gone downstairs; it is all about ghosts." When I
showed her the letter she recognised it as the one she had seen, and
*My remark was not meant to be taken in the sweeping sense in which Mr.
Wedgwood has understood it. I meant that the mere fact of the percipient
seeing these particular notes would not justifl" the supposition that she could see
any notes. I have always thought Mrs. A. Wedgwood'sexperiences, which Mr.
Wedgwood goes on to describe, exceptionally interesting, and have urged him to
gettliem eviilenced, wheneverthey occur,in as complete a form as possible.-E.G.
Digitized by Google
April, 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. 85
remembered the post-mark, Minehead, a town whose name she had
neyer heard of. The previous afternoon, when reading her book, she
had seen the word Minehead written across the page, but she had not
connected it with my letter until she saw the post-mark when I showed
her the cover. I wrote my memorandum of the occurrence early in the
following May.
The following instance was told me by Mrs. Alfred in the presence
of her husband, and taken down by me in January, 1882. About
two years previous she dreamt that she saw a trial going on in a court
full of people, and the names of Liardet and Nyvele (ana.gram of
Evelyn) written up in the air. She was very much struck with her
dream, and made her husband go four or five miles for a newspaper
after breakfast. In this she found a report of the trial of Liardet
'V. Evelyn, and she recognised the names of counsel employed as having
been mada known to her in her dream. At that time she lived at East
Horseley, and had never even seen Mr. Evelyn, who lived six or seven
miles off on the other side of the Downs. Rer only very feeble link
with him was that he was a neighbour of her sister-in-law Mrs. Farrer.
The quarrel between him and his steward Mr. Liardet was not of the
slightest interest to her. I spoke of the subject to my son a few days
ago. Hewell recollects the dream of the trial (though not the details)
and his driving off for It newspaper, either to Cobham or Leatherhead,
he does not remember which.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
S.-340.
INTELLIGENT AUTOMATISM.
From MISS GREEN, The High School, Blackburn.
Jamw/ry 22nd, 1887.
At other times than that which I am about to rcfer to, I have
had what appeared to me indisputable proof of the existence of some un-
known force which manifests itself in very unusual motions produced in a
small table by the placing on it of the hands of several persons, under such
conditions that fraud was impossible, and muscular action, consciously or un-
consciouslY"seemed equally an impossible explanation of the phenomena. (I
mean thatthe kind of movement could not be produced by muscular action.)
But in the year 1878, when I was spending my holidays in Ireland, the
phenomena then experienced proved to me, at least, that the force could
become a means of intelligent expression by means of spelling out words; that
the utterances so produced were almost always the latent consciousness of
the operators, but that the ideas expressed'were uttered absolutely without
volition, and in some instances against the will of one of the operators.
The experimenters were the daughters of Mrs. M., of Kinsale, sometimes
some of her nieces, and myself. Mrs. M. oftentook part herself. Her daughters
Digitized by Google
86 Jou1-nal of Society /01' Psychical Resea1'ch. [April,1887.
have a liking for botany and other branches of natural science. I had
previously lived for three years in her household, teaching the girls. I
therefore knew them very intima.tely, and knew that our experiments were
bonafide; that one of the three young ladies, who had evidently more power
than anyone else over the unknown force, was, and is ,of a singularly simple,
true, and strong character-very intelligent and absolutely free from
affectation, vanity, or any other morbid tendency. All who know her have
the same trust in her, and I, who know her perhaps best, feel this most
strongly. She was then about 19.
So much for the operators. Now for the facts. I was told by the girls that
they had found that they, with their cousins, could make the table move, and
even spell out a word. I was absolutely incredulous, but gave way to the evi-
dence of my senses when !saw and felt under my own hands the table tipping
up and down, a.nd then moving with a double motion, rotating and revolving,
round the room. Now and then we had to move very fast to keep our hands
on the table, which seemed, so to speak, to be running away from us. The
most interesting part of our experiments was the spelling out of sentences.
At first we tried simple words. Four of us, perhaps, would place ourselves at
the table. After a few minutes, the customary tilting movement came, as a
sign that the tablewas "magnetised." (We usedthe wordfor want of a better.)
Then, one of us fixed on a word to be spelt. The question was put, " What
is So-and-so thinking of 1" The table tllen began to tilt up and down; we spelt
out the alphabet, till suddenly it would stop at a certain letter. In this way
the word would be spelt out. Sometimes a letter was wrong. I recollect once
that one of the girls was to think of a word. The letters came
" Lap n i e r fl." She said she had thought of a picture called " La Priere."
Soon, however, we passed Ol1t of this stage, and tried to get &ll8wers to
questions, and to get what we called" messages" to anyone of us. (I do not
mean that any of us had any superstitious notion about it, but this was our
modus operandi.) Some of these I have written .down. The remarks were
generally very common-place, and the language often vague and not well
chosen. But of this I am absolutely sure, that the phrases were spelt out
without any consciousneBB on the part of the operators of what was being
spelt, and on more than one occasion one of the operators would have
prevented the utterance if she could. Often we could not see the drift of
the utterance until the whole was spelt, having been led astray at first by·
taking a part of a word for a whole.
The "table" was asked to give an opinion of the Earl of Beaconsfield
(then living). The words were spelt out" self-lauding hypocrite, with many
good merits, deserving esteem." Now, if it were possible to entertain the
notion of fraud (which to me is impossible), one would expect a more
consistent opinion than the above, which doubtleBB arose from the differing
views of the operators. On the reception of this opinion, we asked, "Where
did you acquire your style of speech 1" in a joking way. The answer was
spelt out, " Trinity College." Asked to give a "meBBBge" to all, the worda
were spelt out" Pursue your inquiry in subjects not yet fathomed by sages,
steadily prosper."
We inquired whether a certain marriage had taken place. Tho &ll8wer
Digitized by Google
April, 1887.] Jou1vnal of Society /01' Psychical Research. 87
was spelt out" wedded, testified by proxy." What this mean~
we had no notion, but these words were spelt out. We inquired whether tho
marriage would be a happy one. Answer:" In many ways, such a marriage
must prove happy for both."
Once, to test the unknown force, I asked that some incident of my own
life, known to no one else, should be uttered. A sentence came out, referring
to a.n incident of my girlhood, of which I was rather ashamed than otherwise,
which could not have been known to any other operator, and which I should
not have voluntarily told. On another occasion, a question was asked, ~'Who
has . 1" I knew the answer, but no one else could possibly knaw.
To let the answer come out would have been to betray a confidence. I set
my will steadily against the answer. 1* willed hard that it should not come.
But the Christian Danle, a common one, came out, and I felt so sure that the
Surnanle would follow that I k>ok my hands off, and made an excuse for
stopping. Perhaps it may be thought that I was unconsciously in a semi-
hypnotic state. I can only S&y I was to my own consciousness in a perfec~ly
normal condition of mind, quite awru·e of nly social responsibilities, and with
perfect control over my own actions. I had no difficulty in taking my hands
from the table. I do not know whether the name in question could or cuuld
not have been spelt out after my leaving it. Naturally my friends would not
try when they saw the question troubled me.
lt will be seen that our modtUJ operandi was not exactly that of a scientific
society, but though our questions and answers, &c., were often put partly
as a pastime to some of us, certain conditions were carefully kept. We were
in full daylight or gaslight, and placed ourselves carefully so that our feet or
dresses should not touch the legs of the table.
We sometimes asked to have "messages" spelt out from distant friends
(always living). Then ·the utterances would be such as we should suppose it
likely those friends would send. At one time I was inclined to think there
might be some power of getting hold of the thoughts of those absent. I came
to the conclusion that there was no trace whatever of this.
So far as my experience went, I never saw any proof or indication of any
communication with people not sitting at the table, though I have heard of
experiences which indicate such a possibility. One instance of a "message"
from a friend I will mention. A message purporting to be from Mr. X., at
whose house I was going to spend a few days in the following week, was
speIt out. "Come, Miss Green, here's a chance." " Explain yourself
further." " Politics." " Something more." .. Lucy."
We declared that the" table" was silly, as we could make no sense of
ilii.s. One of ~he cousins of my pupils was U&lUed Lucy, but she llad no
interest in politics, and was not going to the house wi~h me. We" gave it
up" ·as a failure, when one of Mrs. M.'s sisters, the mother of "Lucy,"
said she knew what it meant. She had been staying at Mr. X.'s and he
* I am not sure that my mental attitude is rightly described by the word
.. willed," which seems to connote a belief in the agent's mind in his power to
accomplish his wish, not merely the concentration of thought on the wish. I had
by this time seen so much of this strange power of apparently getting at the
operator's thoughts by the unknown force, that, though I tried hard to resist, I
doubted very much whether my resistance could counteract it.
Digitized by Google
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea?·ch. [April, 188~.
had rema,rked that I was going to visit his house, and should be there just
at the time when Mr. and Mrs. Lucy would be there too, and we could have
BOme fine discussions, or some trivial remark of this kind. One of this lady'.
daughters-I am not sure whether it was the owner of the name" Lucy"
or her sister-had been at Mr. X.'s with her, and was then one of the
operators at the table, and, when she was thus reminded, recollected the
occurrence. I remember feeling some doubt in this case whether it was
possible that Mrs. M.'. sister in the room, though nIlt at the table,
could have influenced the utterance, as the trivial remark had evidently
made a very slight impression on her daughter's memory. Still, though
weak, it was there, in her latent consciousness.
If we asked a question which required a definite answer, of which no one
could have any knowledge, an answer would generally be given, withoutany
relation to facts, but not without relation to the psychological law of associa-
tion of ideas. . In fact, if once the unknown force be granted, this law of
association seems to explain much of the rest.
In relation to the marriage about which we had asked a question, we
asked the Cllristian name of the lady, which IlOne of us knew. The table
spelt out ., Sophie." This was afterwards proved to be 1Wt the name. But
II. mutual friend named ., Sophy" had recently married, and her name was
naturally connected with the idea of n:arriage; the bride about whom we
were inquiring. was known to be a Frenchwoman, which accounted for the
French form given to her llame.
Another time I inquired where a certain friend of mine, thell travelling
in the Tyrol, was 011 that day. In ~wer came the name of a small town,
which, I afterwards found, my friend llad not visited, but at which I had
once stayed for some days, when in the Tyrol.
I will add a few of the sentences spelt out by the table as general
" messag<'s." The vagueness and a.wkward language which the operators
would not have consciouslyused appears to me to make for the unconsciousness
of the utterance.
"Look to outward signs concerning what you have notified." Further
explanation asked. " Table." "Go, search for further enlightenment in
subjects recognised by you."
"True judgment concerning II. great statesma.n."
"All people are at times crack-brained."
.. Trust, and before long things will side with your truer judgment. Hold
to the beaten track. You will right yourself."
Of course, one cannot give to anyone else one's own feeling of absolute
. security from fraud, conscious or unconscious, arising from one's intimate
knowledge of the persons concerned. I do not think, however, that anyone
could have observed the phenomena I have briefly described (there were
many other examples that I have not spoken of) without coming to the
conclusion that some unknown force was at work. I ma.y say that some of
the operators did not consider that the answers given were always the latent
mind-contents of those who were taking part in the experiment; but I do.
not think they distinguished between questions to which a definite, and others
to which an indefinite, answer might begiven. In the latter case, one appearrd
Digitized by Google
April,1887.] Journal of Society fOl' Psychical Reseal'ch. 89
to receive information; but it was a vague remark that could not be proved
to be either right or wrong. It seemed as if, when once the "rapport ..
between the force and the operators' minds was established, the minds were
separated into two parts, the combined latent consciousness being passive
under the action of the force; at the same time the volitional consciousness
gave the direction to the action of the force by the simple process of willing,
expressed by a question.
I have not, since 1878, had any experience so interesting. Though I
have spent some of my holidays since then in Kinsale, I have not been able
to make any further tests. On one visit, the young lady who had the most
power was away; at another time, she said she had been asked to turn tables
so much for merely frivolous amusement that she felt quite tired with it.
And once when we tried again there were other visitors in the house who
would regard the matter as the work of spirits.
It needs a little patience at first, and a little earnestness in keeping the
pre-arranged conditions, before the "force" can be got into working order.
But in 1878, when we devoted a good deal of time to the pursuit, we found
that the movement in the table would set in after a moment or two when we
had practised for several days.
Though I have spoken rather definitely of my theory, I am, of course,
aware that the- experiments I have mentioned are not sufficient to establish
it. There are numerous tests I should like to apply which we did not think
of then-I mean tests as to the limits of the action of the force. &c.
MARIAN GREEN.
P.S.-I should like to add a few words on the question of unconscious
muscular action. I do not think the mO\'emellts we witnessed could have
been produced by this means, for two reasons. Firstly, some of the move-
ments were of such a nature that we could not voluntarily reproduce them
by CO'/'/'sCi01!8 muscular pressure. We tried once to reproduce the tilting
motion of the table, used in spelling. In this slight movement, with the
table we generally used, the difference was not very marked, though we
decided, I know, that the "magnetic" action was lighter and more elastic.
I do not think, however, that I should have felt satisfied that muscular action
was excluded, had we only experienced this movement. But the wilder
movements which sometimes occurred we could not reproduce at all.
When the table, as we· said, "went mad" it would rock from side to side
while careering about the room, poising itself for an instant on one leg, at
an angle with the perpendicular at which it seemed it must fall over. This
movement suggested strongly some connection with our hands analogous to
magnetism. Sometimes, however,the table did fall and, freed from our hands,
seemed subject to normal conditions. Another movement which, though we
did not test it, 1 do not think we could have reproduced, was the usual
tilting motion in a different table, with which Miss Mary M. and I once or
twice experimented, each time with complete success. The table was small
and of an oval shape, with four legs close to the edge, and the square frame
for a drawer (which of course was removed) under the top. I do not think
that two persons could have tilted this table, unless the hands of both had
been at one side, and ours were lightly placed near the middle.
Digitized by Go
90 JotMvnal of Society for Psychical Research. [April,I887.
Secondly, if the movements had been caused by muscular action, even
though unconscious, we must, I think, have had a feeling of local fatigue
after spending, as we did sometimes, a couple of hours at a time in obtaining
the movements. By our method, the table tilted for each letter, and
stopped at the right one. I am sure that the amount of pressure needed for
the spelling of one of our longer "messages" would have produced some kind
of ache in our hands. I do not rpmember that anyone ever complained of
anything but a certain amount of chilliness after the ~ds had been for some
time in one position. I have not spoken of knocks apparently within the
table, as I have had very little personal experience of these; but I believe
Miss M. M. has sometimes obtained these ,'ery successfully since the time I
write of.
Ardnacarrie, Bandon.
February 21st, 1887,
We have carefully read over Miss Green's paper on the subject of table-
rapping, and can thoroughly corroborate all that she has stated.
NOTE ON THE FOREGOING CASE,
M.ur.y M.
MRs. M.
I am anxious to call the attention of readers to Miss Green's account, as
given above. It shows how much matter for interesting discussion may be
gathered from phenomena of no very rare order, if they are intelligently
observed.
In the first place I may remark that the safest way to begin our con-
sideration of messages derived through tilts of a table is to treat them as
simply a variety of the messages given by automatic writing, which we have
already considered. So far as their purport goes the tiLt-messagtlll (" typto-
logical" is almost too pompous a name for them! ) are closely analogous to
the Wlitten messages ; and we had better begin at least by assuming that
tilt-messages are due to unconscious muscular action of the sitters. giving
expression to thoughts which they unconsciously entertain. But here we
find that two difficulties, which appeared indeed in the case of the written
messages, but in a fainter form, start at once into prominence.
I. There is a difficulty in supposing that the movements, often very
violent, are really caused bythe automatic action of sitters who are doingtheir
best to keep perfectly still.
n. There isa difficulty in assigning the Oligination of the tilted message
to the unconscious intelligence of anyone given sitter; since often no
message will come unless several persons sit; and the message, when it
does come, is a sort of compromise between views held by the various
sitters.
The first of these difficulties, as will be seen, was strongly felt by Miss
Green and her friends. .And judging from a wide experience of these tilt-
messages, I do not think that their impression can be dismissed as obviously
illusory. It may be remembered that Mr. and Mrs, Newnham received
the same impression with regard to the movements of the planchette, which
they both thought such as Mr, Newnhanl's muscular force could not
have originated. We are here at the point of contact between automatic
Digitized by Google
April,1887.] Jou1"IUtl 0/ Society /01' Psychical Resea1'ch. 91
messages and the "physical phenomena" of Spiritualism. This is not the placE.'
to deal with those alleged disturbances of matter. If they are to be proved,
it must be by cases less ambiguous than these movements of planchette or
table, while actually touchcd by the experimenters. One remark alone seems
needful, in order to show that I may justifiably continue to disCU88 on the
same terms as the rest these messages where there is a certain suspicion of
physical force communicated to table or planchette in a manner which
muscular action will not explain. The remark (which, though tolerably
obvious, and not new, is often ignored in the discussions,) is as follows :-
Assuming for the sake of argument that a force X is manifested which does
not proceed from the =nuscles of the sitters, it still by no means follows that
X proceeds from disembodied spirits. We do not know how either the sitters
or the spirits can originate X, but we know that the sitters at any rate exist
and are on the spot; and they have. so to 8I\Y, the first claim to being con-
sidered as the originators of X, until the spirits do or 8I\y something which
seems beyond the reach of the sitters' unconscious mind. III short, to repeat
in this case also what I have often said already, it must be to the content,
not to the mechanism, of the message that appeal must be made, if we are to
establish its extra-human authorship. In Miss Green's case there seems to
have beennothing in the collte'l6" of the message which pointed to the spiritual
hypothesis; so for present purposes we may neglect the question as to the
precise mode of origination of the table's movements.
The second difficulty-as to the apparent co-operation of more than one
sitter in the production of the message-has been already observed in cases
where pIanchette needs to have more than one person's hand upon it-8I\Y, A's
and B'. hands-in order to begin to write. (See Proceedings, Vol. II., p. 233.)
The simplest suggestion will, of course, be that B's hand merely gives
unconsciously the initial shove to the planchette, which A's hand then guides.
This explanation, however, is not altogether 8I\tisfactory with regard even to
pIanchette, and it becomes still more difficult to apply when the movements
are of so marked a character as in some table-tilting experiments. A puts
his hands on the table and nothing happens; B adds his hands and nothing
happens; C adds his hands and the table tilts violently ; but nevertheless it
will never tilt with C alone; and when it tilts with A, B, and C, the messages
may contain matters known to A or B, but not to C. Or again, in some cases
I have seen a frequently-changing group of persolls round the table-some-
times A, B, C; sometimes B, D, E ; sometimes A, C, E, &C.,-and never-
theless the tilts continued to give distinct messages throughout. If we are
to suppose that one sitter's mind alone was originating the messages at each
moment, it is difficult to understand how it was that the automatic action (8I\y)
of A and C kept itself in abeyance when B's was to be the guiding mind, and
did not so interfere as to confuse the tilted mes8l\ges.
This is pre-eminently a question which calls for abundant experiments,
and I would urge readers of the JOU'I'n.al to try to get their messages
tilted by a table (one tilt standing for A, two for B, and so forth, with
conventional signs for yes and no), and to record and analyse results.
1 believe that this is the most easily obtained of all automatic phenomena,
perhaps one person in three having some capacity for inducing tilts. I need.
Digitized by Google
92 Jou?'nal of Society for Psychical Research. [April,I887.
scarcely add that it is perfectly easy to simulate tilts and table-movements of
many kinds, and that no one must suppose that such movements can be made
an independent proof of automatic action, still less of the action of spirits.
But a group of experimenters, acting with good faith towards each other, and
without superstitious prepossessions, are likely to get results which will at
least interest themselves, and which may very possibly, like Miss Green's,
deserve a permanent record.
In Miss Green's case, as we have seen, apart from the mechanism of the
messages, there was something in their substance which suggested a kind of
fusion or compromise between the minds of the ",anous sitters.
It is, of course, logically possible to suppose that a spirit read the minds of
the sitters, and endeavoured to please them all impartially by recording a
judgment on Lord Beaconsfield as a "self-lauding hypocrite, with many
good merits deserving esteem." But before considering this hypothesis
here, we shall, I think, need to have a pretty large collection of messages in
which the intelligence of an independent spirit is more strongly marked. It
seems less improbable that the message may be, as Miss Green conjectures, a
kind of fusion of the latent mental action of the persons present. Mr.
Gurney and I have repeatedly suggested that it is the unconscious rather than
the conscious elements in our mentation which seem to be most subject to
telepathic impulse or intercourse; and, though such experiments as Miss
Green's are at once too slight and too obscure to prove any such theory, I
confess that they do seem to me to point that way. Or, somewhat varying
the conception, they fall in with a kind of analogy from the bodily organism
which I have elsewhera suggested." In this view, the minds of the sitters
may be likened to corpuscles swimming about in a kind of liq'U01' sangui·"is
which forms our psychical environment; or say to the" secondary larvre " of
the Hessian fly, modifying by their development the juices of the primary
larva in which they are embedded. This sounds fmciful; but he who
speculates on these matters will find that he needs whatever help
analogy can give him to form and to communicate the conception of an
intelligence, modified by personalities, but itself perhaps without personality
-of mind-stuff not made up into minds like ours, yet capable of occasional
spurts of rudimentary mentation. FREDERIC W. H. MYElIS.
G.-481.
From Mr. John E. Husbands, of Melbourne House, Town-Hall-square,
Grimsby.
September 15th, 1886.
DEA.R Sm,-The facts are simply these. I was sleeping in a hotel
in Madeira in January, 1885. It was a bright moonlight night. The
windows were open and the blinds up. I felt some one was in my room.
011 opening my eyes, I saw a young fellow about 25, dressed in flannels, stand-
ing at the side of my bed and pointing with the first finger of his right hand
to the place I was lying. I lay for some seconds to con\"ince myself of some
one being really there. I then sat up and looked at him. I saw his features
so plainly that I recognised them in a photograph which was shown me some
days after. I asked him what he wanted; he did not speak, but his eyes and
* PhantQ.$l/I$, &c., Vol. II., p. 315.
Digitized by Google
April, 1887.] J01.£1'1Utl 0/ Society /01' Psychical Resea?'ch, 93
hand seemed to tell me I was in his place. As he did not answer, I struck
out at him with my fist as I sat up, but did not reach him, and as I was
going to spring out of bed he slowly vanished through the door, which was.
shut, keeping his eyes upon me all the time.
Upon inquiry I found that the young fellow who appeared to me died in
that room I was occupying.
If I can tell you anything more I shall be glad to, if it interests you.
JOHN E. HusBANDs.
The following letters are from Miss Falkner, of Church-terrace, Wisbech.
whe was resident at the hotel when the above incident happened.
October 8th, 1886.
The figure that Mr. Husbands saw while in Madeira was that of a young
fellow who died unexpectedly months pre\"iously, in the room which
Mr. Husbands was occupying. Curiously enough, Mr. H. had never heard
of him or his death. He told mo the story the morning after he had.
seen the figure, and I recognised the young fellow from the description. It
impressed me very much, but I did not mention it to him or anyone. I
loitered about until I heard Mr. Husbands tell the same tale to my brother;
we left Mr. H. and said simultaneously" He has seen Mr. D."
No more was ~d on the subject for days; then I abruptly showed the
photograph.
Mr. Husbands said atonce" That is the young fellow who appeared to me
the other night, but he was dressed differently," describing a dreBS he often
wore-" cricket suit (or tennis) fastened at the neck with sailor knot." I
must say that that Mr. Husbands is a. most practical man, and the very last;.
one would expect" a spirit " to visit. K. FALlmER.
Oct.ober 20th, 1886.
I enclose you photograph and an extract from mysister.in-law's letter,
which I received this morning, as it will verify my statement. Mr. Husbands
saw the figure either the 3rd or 4th of February, 1885. Would it not be
exactly a year from the death 1
The people who had occupied the rooms had never told us if they had
seen anything, so we may conclude they had not. K. FALlmER.
The following is Miss Falkner's copy of the passage in the letter :-
"You will see at back of Mr. du F--'s photo the date of his decease.
[Jan. 29, 1884] j and if you recollect· the Motta Marques' had his rooms
from the February till the Mayor June of 1884, then Major Money at the
commencement of 1885 season. Mr. Husbands had to take the room on
February 2nd, 1885, as his was wanted.
•, I am clear on all this, and remember his telling me the incident when he
came to see my baby."
I have received a full account of this case 'Viva 'I,'()ce from both Mr.
Husbands and Miss Falkner. Tney are both thoroughly practical, and as
far remoyed as possible from a superstitious love of manels ; nor had they
any previous interest in this or any other class of abnormal experiencen.
So far as I could judge, -Mr. Husbands' view of himself is entirely correct-
that he is the last person to give a spurious importance to anything that
Digitized by Google
94 Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Resea1'ch. [April, 1887.
might befall him; or to allow facts to be distorted by imagination. As will
be seen, his account of his vision preceded any knowledge on his part of the
death which had occurred in the room. He has never had any other
hallucination of the senses. E. G.
The following additional information has been received from t.he Rev. J.
Barrow Matthews, as to the recent epidemic of excitement in the Bahamas.*
Thp Rectory, San Salvador, Bahamas, West Indies.
N(1)tmber 10th, 1886.
1. In most cases the attack was the result of being present at the meetings,
but there were a few cases where the girl knew nothing of the affair, i.e., girls
at work in the pine-apple plantations in the midst of work would be seized.
2. No. The girl whom I saw begin to twitch, &c., could not· possibly
hear or see anything. The meeting was more than a quarter of a mile
away. I knew the meeting was on, because I had just come from that way.
3. Very likely a guess, as you say, "considering the morals of the
place." But the guess (if such) was remarkable for its correspondence of
the minute details of the ins and outs of the secret sin. The man, on being
told, declared the .. girl a witch or devil, for none but God and himself and
the devil saw."
4. The magistrate in question has left this Island now, but should I ever
meet him, I will asK him to write his idea of the matter. Both daughters,
unfortunately for further inquiries, have gone to live in Florida, U.S.A.,
and one is now married,
5. The girl was at Rum Cay Island, 45 miles by sea from San Salvador.
Most likely a guess, but a remarkably shrewd and accurate guesl.
6. The resuscitated man is dead. He had heart·disease, as I wrote you,
and I ;knew his days were numbered.
C0RRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
. Sm,-I almost regret that I allowed my letter to Mr. Gurney to ap~ar
in print. I cannot quite regret it, because my criticisms have drawn from
Mrs. Sidgwick so very able and instrnctive a reply. I had not the slightest
wish to impugn that lady's competence as an inquirer, which is above
question, or her essential impartiality. I wrote in the interests of the Society
to criticise a t~ne, apparent, as I thought, on the surface of her paper, wltich
might alienate good ~nd efficient friends of the Society's work, and for that
purpose I took that paper as it stood, not as it might stand when supported
and elucidated, as it now is. In matters of feeling first impressions are
much, subsequent explanations count for much less than their real worth.
To enter fully into the questions raised by Mrs. Sidgwick's letteris simply
impossible for me. If I have the ability, I certainly have not the leisure.
Two or three brief remarks I may be allowed to moke.
(1) I fail to see why Mrs. Jencken, unless otherwise convicted of decep-
tio n, may not be credited with a genuine belief that the drippings on the
drum were .. spirit" raps. If she were consciously and fraudulently produc-
* See Vol. II., p. 485.
Digitized by Google
April, 1881.] JOU1'1UJ,l Of Soc'iety for Psychical Research. 95
ing raps, I should rather expect her to be very shy of claiming sounds she
must have known she had not made, and which might be not accidental,
but a trap laid for her; the more so because she was not dealing with chance
visitors, but with members of the Society for Psychical Research in the
rooms of the Society, and ex hypothesi must have been a practised deceiver
·of nearly 40 years' experience. To me the whole incidentseems to make for
the honesty of the medium; to Mrs. Sidgwick clearly against her ; of such
force is the" personal equation" of the observer.
(2) In the case of the experiments described by Mrs. Sidgwick, I should
say that the raps not only appeared to be made, but actually wcre made on
the various objects. though mediately and not directly, just as I should say
that I had received a blow on the back, though the force of the blow had, in
fact, been passed on through the clothes that covered my back.
(3) With regard to the investigation of Professors Flint, Lee, and
Coventry, my argument stands thus: Doctors of ability and repute in
ElliotBon's day, profeBSedly on scientific grounds, scouted phenomena of
hypnotism which have since been established as genuine. It follows that
the bare fact that doctors of ability and repute have on investi-
gation pronounced against .the genuineneBS of novel phenomena is by
itself" worth nothing as evidence" against those phenomena. Now in the
paper on which I was commenting we had the bare fact alone, for practically
for nine readers in ten, a reference to a little known work is of no use. But
with the majority of readers that bare fact would have much weight. How
often in former days have I heard the dictum, not of a committee of
profeBBOrs, but simply of "our doctor," quoted as decisive agaillBt
mesmerism. Herein lay the rhetoric of Mrs. Sidgwick's method of treat-
ment, unconscious rhetoric. of course, for I never for one moment thought of
attributing to her any intentional deviation from scientific fairnells. I know
not how it may be with Mrs. Sidgwick, or with you, but for my own part,
when I am in earnest about a subject, I find it very hard·indeed to keep clear
of rhetorical methods in dealing with it. On the whole, I still think tha the
experience we have had of the dealing of the medical profession in this
country and in France. with mesmeric phenomena, warrants a suspicion
that the medical men of America would come to the investigation of
analogous phenomena with a strong d priori bias against them, and deprives
the mere fact of an adverse decision of any considerable weight.
I shall look with much interest (or the details of the exposures of Mr.
Eglinton's slate-writing. I only truSt that the evidence of exposers will.be
criticised as strictly as that of believers, that it will be remembered that, if
some good easy folk can be tricked to their faces, others have eyes so sharp
that they can see what is not theJ;6.
The question of the methods of dealing with the evidence for phantasms
or for psychography is too wide for me to attempt now to discuss. It is most
important, and I fear I am not altogether in accord upon it with Mrs.
Sidgwick or with the authors of Phantasms of the Li11ing. Possibly when.
in a few weeks hence, I find myself more free from work, I may ask you to
admit BOrne thoughts of mille on this subject.-I am, &c.,
Will. S. GRIGNON.
Digitized by Google
96 Journal 0/ Society /0'1' Psychical Research. [April, 1887.
Po the Ed'itor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-I am glad to be allowed the opportunity of saying a few worda on
one or two points in Mr. Grignon's courteous letter.
(1) As regards the drum incident, he attributes to me an inference which
I 'have been careful not to draw. I did not say that Mrs. Jencken
endeavoured to deceive us, but that "she, or her ' spirits,' are willing to·
claim as spiritualistic phenomena occurrences quite unconnected with her
presence." This seems to me to be undeniable. By the phrase in my
notes of the seance, "the 'spirits' claimed to have produced" the raps on
the drum, 1 meant that an intelligence communicating with us by raps (as
Mrs. Jencken's "controls" do) informed us that it had produced them. It
had, however, not produced them. Therefore, whether it was Mrs. Jencken
herself or another being, it said what was not true.
(2) In saying that in my paper in Proceedings, Part X., I gave the "bare
fact alone" that Drs. Flint, Lee, and Coventry had on investigation pro-
nounced against the genuineness of the so-called Rochester knockings, Mr.
Grignon must, I think, have forgotten that I described, with as I thoU!ht
sufficient detail for clearness, the. two specific experiences on which they
based their conclusion; namely, that they had experimented with another
lady who could by certain movements in the knee joint produce similar
sounds ; and that, when the Fox sisters were placed in positions which
precluded these movements, the knockings did not occur.
I shall look forward with interest to the criticism promised by Mr.
Grignon on the methods adopted by Mr. Gurney and myself in dealing with
evidence in psychical research. Such criticism from competent persons is, in
a field of inquiry so little trodden, an almost indispensable condition of
thoroughly well-directed work.-I am, sir, &c.
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
SUPPLE1\lENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The fol101JJing additions have been made since the Zast Ust:-
ALEXANDER (P. P., M.A.), Spiritualism; a Narrative with a Discussion
(second copy) ......................................................Edinburgh, 1871
FERRIER (David, M.D., F.R.S.), The Functions of the Brain. Second
Edition ..............................................,0 .............. ..... London, 1886
MIND IN NATURE. Vol. II..............................................Chicago, 1886*
AZAM (Dr.), Hypnotisme double Couscience et Alterations de la
Personalite ...............................................................Paris, 1887
BARETY (Dr. A.), Le Magnetisme Animal..............................Paris, 1887
DESPINE (Dr. Prosper). Etude Scientifique sur Ie Somnam-
bulisme .....................................................................Paris, 1880
HERZEN (Professor A), Les Conditions de la Conscience .........Geneva, 1886
OCHOROWICZ (Dr. J.), De la Suggestion Mentale ; avec une preface de
M. Charles Richet ......................................................Paris, 1887
VOISIN (Dr. Auguste), De la TMrapeutique Suggestive chez les
Alienes .....................................................................Paris, 1887
* PrI'J!ented by Mr. J. E. Woodhead.
Digitized by Google
