{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lylia_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Lylia P NDE 4568","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lylia P NDE 4568  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lylia P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2300 Lylia P NDE 4568  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember it as it was. I was crying, and that's all I remember of the physically, reality part. I remember missing my mother.

I was aged three and I had just started dance classes. I hit my head on a heater trying to show my family a spin in Ballet. My mother ran to me, and I was crying. Then it happened.

I was rising, rising high, above the treetops in the Amazonian Rain forest. At three, I had not learned what this was, so when I told my parents, they were shocked.

I was bleeding from my head, and I put my hand and saw this glistening red in the sky. I was scared at first, but something in me calmed me down. As I faced a door, I touched the handle. The handle was extremely warm, and I pulled my hand away. Then the door vanished.

My first house fire occurred a year later.

Then, I was placed in front of a large chair, with a strict looking woman on it.

Then my mother went to court a month later with a female judge.

A whisper from directly behind me startled me. I opened my eyes, which I thought were already open, and every time I blinked I saw a different scene. Amazing. So as I kept closing and opening my eyelids, one in particular caught my attention. It was a fortuneteller, a very stereotypical one. She had the turban, odd bracelets, and weird fog/smoke surrounding her, yes, very stereotyped. She smiled at me and told me that I deserve better. I looked around as the smoke rose. I heard a scream. Then, I saw swirling purple.

A door opened, this time on its own, to reveal my mother lying next to me crying, with blood flowing from my little head. My father was panicking on the phone.

I looked back at the booth, which had the fortuneteller in it, and said aloud, 'I don't wanna go!' She looked at me and said, these exact words, 'As I said, you deserve better, my love.' She then lifted her hand, 'Be gone, and never forget, the first love - isn't always the best.'

On my wedding day, twenty-seven years later, when I was twenty-nine, my husband left me at the altar. He was my first love.

Just like that, I awoke with multiple doctors and nurses around me.

I heard sighs of relief, and then everyone walked out. I cried again, missing my previous vision. I then saw my mother outside the window, crying, looking me in the eyes. She grabbed a paper and wrote 'You deserve better.' I gasped, and yelled as loudly as I could, 'SEND ME BACK!!!'

As it turns out, I never left my experience. I am still in it, I suppose. I saw my mother, and she said, 'I meant hospital beds. Better beds.' I found that hard to believe, but looking back on it, it is soooo confusing. I still wonder to this very day what would've happened if I had chosen a different scene from my eyes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 13

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury  'I was dancing, and it involved tipping upside down, but not as far as I did go.'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had hit my head while being a show-off.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Every moment.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Every moment.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were awfully vivid, but I was young, so...

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A void, almost. A vortex of swirling purple mystery.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     There were figments of my imagination, but the Fortune Teller seemed almost other-worldly.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Many visions of things like the rain forest, beaches, tents, odd yet wondrous.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Everyone, from beginning to end.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw multiple visions of the future.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Extremely accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   None.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The fact that it was so sudden, and I was so young, made it hard to explain then.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I suppose so. I could almost immediately tell when a situation was going to end badly, and how to fix it. Before I couldn't tell where I was!!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not really, just the 'you deserve better' scene.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I waited no longer than a day. I couldn't stand what my mother had done with the poster, so. They at first didn't believe me until I brought it back up a week ago, which inspired me to share it on this website.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Well, I was so young, I believed in anything.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     And today I know I could never think of something so creative and predict the future or at least 'think' I did.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   A few hours after with my mother and the sign.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Did time seem to erase itself? Did time slow down?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lylia_p_nde.html