{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1luis_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Luis D NDE 1034","mylang":"de"}
          	        Luis D NDE 1034  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Luis D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						463  Luis D NDE  1034  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

We were on a four day vacation in cabins in a forest area in central Mexico; we went on several motorcycles to ride around a lake. I got separated from the main group and tried to catch them going around the lake in the opposite direction. I remember enjoying the moment at its fullest when a couple of small bumps in the grass took me by surprise and obviously, I must have done something very wrong.


Next thing I remember was an incredible feeling of peace that I have never felt before or since that day. And being in such complete peace. It felt like it could go on forever when somehow I was questioned by an incredibly authoritative, yet gentle voice that said, 'If you are willing to accept pain, you will save your son a lot of trouble.'


I replied, 'How are these two facts connected?'


And the voice repeated very calmly but firmly the same question, 'If you are willing to accept pain, you will save your son a lot of trouble.'


I repeated, 'I do not see the connection.'


He asked once more and I said, 'OK, let's have the pain.'


In that instant, violently, I felt so much pain that I could not say what was hurting, it took me a few moments to realize where I was. I saw the broken bike a few meters away, I saw some blood on the mask of my helmet and tried to stand up. The pain began to decrease and I was able to ask for help and a peasant came by and called the rest of my group. He told me he saw me fall from the distance and that I lay there for twenty minutes. I saved my story to myself and a few days later, I told my wife about my 'dream'. She did not give it any importance and life went on. But the fact that it stays so clear in my mind, that it was at a moment when nobody can tell me if I actually was in the boundary or not, and the similarity of feelings with other NDErs, and the lack of attention that I get from my close ones is a little distressing.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    may 3rd 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I fell from a motorcycle and laid unconscious unassisted for 20 minutes with several broken bones and a big hit in the head despite wearing a helmet.I do not know if my heart or lungs actually stopped, but I lay unconscious for about twenty minutes unattended. No damage was found later in my brain, and as I woke up I could not really tell how long I had being 'out'.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert, but I was not aware at the moment that my decision to not accept pain would have meant that I would have died.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I could not tell how long I have been in that state, if not for the time of day.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just a commanding, fatherly voice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Just that particular voice who seemed to have great authority.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   I feel like everything was in a bright light but it was more feelings than seeing. Cannot explain it really.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Absolutely. Now I know we are here to help other people, and my mission is clear. I have to be here for my son and family.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I made the decision to accept pain and that decision immediately turned into regained consciousness. Therefore it may have been a direct decision to be alive.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   I was a faithfull catholic at the time, and it was like a Confirmation of what was already known, but now I have experieced the first step

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   With a more purpose-oriented attitude specially in my relations to others.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Now I am not afraid of dying at all, and if a loved one dies, I know I will feel relief by KNOWING they will be at a better place. It is not only faith now.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   First I related it as a dream, but I was so amazingly aware, and I remember so vividly the sense of well-being and clarity that there is no other dream that I ever had, that I can  relate it to.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best is the reassurance of life after death, and a great life it most be! Lost the tragic side of relatives dying. The worst is the indifference from others and of course, the pain I had to go through. Am I done? Only God knows.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told my son who is eight and a very sensitive child; he says he feels secure and thankful with me.  My wife is very religious and has been more so since we had a miscarriage last year. She says she believes me, but doesn't really act as if it is important.  My friends gave me an odd look and said 'Curious' and that was it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I would like to know if it is common to dream while knocked out by a hit in the head.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I would like to get in touch with people who had lived similar experiences.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1luis_d_nde.html