{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lydia_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Lydia L NDE 3949","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lydia L NDE 3949  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lydia L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1879 Lydia L NDE 3949  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					For two days I had had the same dream. A voice told me to visit my grandmother's gravestone. With a friend, I went to see it. When we found it, I had a feeling something bad was going to happen. I started home on my bicycle near 7:00 pm. I was not wearing my hard helmet with earphones. I was focusing on my premonition. At a red light, I crossed the street. I could see the car coming, and I thought it was going to stop to let me crossover. But it wasn't. It hardly slowed down, and then it swerved and hit me. In the space of five seconds, I saw my life passing before me, and my grandmother, who was near to me. When I opened my eyes, I was under my bike, unable to move. My elbow was covered in blood; my right leg, too. The bike was in a bad state as well. I went to hospital and the doctor told me I had no bones broken, but I had been very lucky that my head did not strike the front of the car, or even hit the ground.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  31 aout 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    Other accident a bicycle

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   At the hospital.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the hospital.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing is keener. I hear sounds coming from outside, when I'm indoors.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandmother, she was next to me, but did not say anything.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a light as soon as the car hit me. It vanished two or three seconds after it appeared.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was very scared, trembling and crying too.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I've learned that life is beautiful, despite any obstacles it may place in our path.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Je croyais pas vraiment a tout se qui touche les religions

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Je crois toujours pas tout se qui touche les religions

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Since that time, I say what I feel. I live pretty much for the day, as I can see how life can suddenly end.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see the dead, since my accident. Often, they speak to me; sometimes I just sense that I'm being observed when I'm home by myself.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There is one, when I saw my grandmother next to me, she seemed happy, but also a bit sad. My mother has always told me my grandmother was my guardian angel, but I never believed it until the day of my accident.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After four months. At first, some people believed me, others not. Then, those who disbelieved put me to the test, and since then they believe me. Now they all ask me if I can help them to communicate with someone they have lost.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was in pain, and felt weak. It is very unusual for me to feel weak. And there were my injuries, I could not walk at first. So I knew that all this was not a dream or just a minor fall.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Every time I pull my jeans on I can see the scars from the accident and the faint outline of the bruise on my knee. When I touch this with my hand, it feels different than the rest of my leg.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lydia_l_nde.html