{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ludmila_nde.html","mytitle":"Ludmila NDE 4168","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ludmila NDE 4168  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ludmila NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2093 Ludmila NDE 4168  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on an obstetrical table; they made me unconscious through a mask. I have an allergy and I have a mitral heart disease, caused by abundant and frequent bleedings, hemoglobin was very low. Besides for the last six months into my body was poured about ten liters of someone's blood. I slept under anesthetic, saw nothing, did not hear and did not feel.

Suddenly I opened my eyes and saw over my head some dark space, and I saw medical staff working over my body. I was very surprised to see an input in air space; I never saw such a thing before. This input was in the form of a square, the lengths of each side were about one meter long - and my soul started to enter that space through the head. It flew upwards at huge speed at the angle of forty-five degrees, and its speed was like rocket speed.

My first feeling after exit from my body was the feeling of an incredible relief. My feelings can be compared to as if I took off all the clothes intended for the temperature of fifty degrees below zero but the temperature around me was fifty degrees above zero and, besides, I've got a bonus - cool running water. But even this comparison for me, heart patient, does not correspond to the full scale of feelings that I felt at that moment.

I continued my flight, and medical staff all this time called me, 'Ludmila! Ludmila!'

I felt so good, that it slightly began to irritate me that they called me - Why are you calling me; I do not want to come back at all. I did not think with the help of words, I felt and understood everything without words.  Despite that, I moved away from my body, and paid attention to medical staff voices, I did not feel weakening of sound vibrations.

After a while, I lost interest in the people's voices and started to feel the tunnel's open space in which I flew. Everything that surrounded me had no influence on me until something drew my attention. Everything was usual and accessible to me without any restrictions. I had a free access to all knowledge and to all information.

But they did not interested me at all, because I knew everything and I did not have a necessity to use all that information. I was overflowing with the feeling of pleasure, and the feeling that at last I was coming back to the place that was so dear to me. My movement was guided by my interest. There were no words in my consciousness. In my mind, I used only concept, logic and intuition.

I moved permanently upwards, my consciousness revealed more and more, and I can describe a condition of my consciousness as an allegorical symbol of a flower of a lotus, which opens its thousand petals.

Suddenly, I began to move downwards through the same tunnel and at the same speed, thus I had a verbal thought: 'What I am doing! Now I am so far away that I cannot return - and I'm leaving my seven year old daughter.' By means of a product of the material world - A WORD - I was again roped into the material world. I did not create this thought, but it influenced me before I realized it. Probably, it was karma, because I have a strong psychological attachment to motherly energies, and even during that moment, I was strongly influenced by them. I felt the entire material world with the help of these energies only.

When I moved downwards, the lotus of my consciousness was gradually closing, as flowers close their petals for the night. Soon I saw the end of the tunnel, top of my head, my body and medical staff, and a part of the surgery room. The feet of my thin body approached to the top of my head, and I started to enter my body, as a hand enters a glove. I felt asleep. I had a dream. In my dream, I was quickly carried on a wheelchair, because my life was in danger and it was necessary to save it. They took me downstairs, and the floors were like a screw trajectory - we've already reached the hospital's basement, there were some more floors, which were necessary to pass. At last they brought me to a room with the words 'Operating Room' on it, and it was located on the lowest floor of the basement. A doctor, woman, whom I never saw before, opened the door of the surgery room saying: 'Take her in immediately; we have to save her life.' After these words, I woke up.

I did not have a desire to tell what had happened to me, though the doctor has told me that she was very frightened and thought that there was nothing to do.

At that time in our country, there was no literature about soul and spiritual doctrines, neither could I hear about this from others, so I had no opportunity to learn about similar experiences, and, I thought, that people won't understand me. But more than that, I did not want that somebody would profane my sacred experience.

In the morning, they took my blood analysis. I asked what hemoglobin I had, and I was really surprised when the laboratory technician told me: '140 g/L'.

'How can it be?' I asked. 'Yesterday it was 28, I lost a lot of blood yesterday in the evening, and now I'm having 140 g/L?'

'It means that in your body a spare depot of blood manufacture was opened,' she answered.

I was so happy to learn guardianship of the thin worlds about people who are enslaved in material bodies.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  листопад 1982 року

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessSurgery-relatedHeart attackAllergic reaction  я майже пів року потерпала від сильної кровотечі, внаслідок шийкової вагітності...був дуже низькій гемоглобін, 28г/л...  Other я пережила віхід моеї душі із тіла  I was very sick and half of the year I spent in the hospital.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Condition of the raised vigilance, in comparison with an everyday life, while my soul was outside of my body - the further I was from the body, the feeling of vigilance became more pronounced.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While my soul was outside my body I was in a vigilant condition - the longer was the distance between my soul and my body, the stronger became the sense of vigilance.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I noticed that any verbal thought faster influences on our choice than on our comprehension. I have not yet realized the thought, but my movement during a fraction of a second has changed from 'upwards' on 'downwards' and only going down, I have realized all essence of the thought.  But time in the tunnel has no special value, I was provided with a possibility of another comprehension.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could feel without any restrictions everything what I wished to know, or to recollect, if it is possible so say so, I forgot nothing, and I did not try to remember anything. For me everything was like 'here and now', I should only define for myself what I needed most of all. But when I was in the tunnel, I saw nothing, except the tunnel and an exit from it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I'm not sure. I do not remember the vibration of voices of medical staff, I remember only that to hear sounds of a matter I could irrespective of distance - I needed only to want to hear someone. In my body, probably, from my birth, I am hard of hearing on both ears. Physically I can't stay too high-pitched sounds, and I do not hear at all words that are said in a deep voice.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I do not know, may be that tunnel (limited space) always exists over me, but I cannot see it from my body - but that tunnel was not dangerous for my soul when I moved in it.  I did not understand, what the tunnel consists f, but I had a feeling that that it consisted of a kind of alive substance, similar to a very dense energy.  I wonder why all describe a tunnel as a pipe. In my NDE, it was like a corridor with obviously expressed four corners. It looked to me like it was similar to a lift mine, more than that I moved, like I was in the lift, only without lift.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     цим відзначався сам тунель, та те що саме і утворило цей тунель...я могла самостійно відкривати нові коридори у будь я кому місці  4х стін  свого тунелю,і кожний би привів мене у відповідний моему інтересу світ... та я бажала повернутися До Свого Духовного Світу...

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was too weak because of my illness; I was tired from seen hospital walls and closed space.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     During twenty years I could not bear the thought that a person should die. In my NDE I learned that that's not so.  I learned that we ourselves define when to die in our physical matter, but we have to be psychologically free from our mind activity and our material interest even if they are in a form of parental self-sacrifice.  There we have more possibilities to help our children in difficult for them moments. Here, during thirty years I failed to influence sufficiently on my daughter.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   я ніколи не вірила у релігійного Бога, але від природи мала деякі здібності відчувіти майбутне ...Вища дія Природи завжди була мені Богом з тих пір, коли я себе пам"ятаю...до того ж я була атеїсткою, адже так довіряла тим шкільнім  вчителям, яких я дуже любила і вірила в те, що людина смертна, але моя внутрішня сутність так противилась цьому, що при зустріччю зі смертью людини, я впадала у депресивний стан днів на два...

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have learnt that religious ceremonies and rites is the invention of the material world - in the inner world the great value is to have cleanliness of intention and a free choice.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   залишились майже тими, що я відчувала у 5-річному віці, але псіхологічній досвід значно підвищився...

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have learnt that religious ceremonies and rites is the invention of the material world - in the inner world the great value is to have cleanliness of intention and a free choice.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I had a possibility to learn everything, but when I was coming downwards, my consciousness was limited in space. We receive all knowledge from the Sky, and our consciousness can simply recollect knowledge when we are moving away from social games of the material world.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   * Incredible feeling of ease and freedom for the soul.  * Complete freedom from the sense of guiltiness and all other prejudices.  * Universal ability to know and hear everything that you wish to, because the tunnel passes through a cocoon of all knowledge and material world information.  * And that extreme atmosphere of universal LOVE until the understanding of my own existence.  * And also that I had a chance to act as I chose - to die or not in the material world.  * I was a full-grown soul for that atmosphere of LOVE and the FOUNDER.  * I felt that I was coming back to my spiritual roots.  I was coming HOME, there, where I was another, the same as other inhabitants of that house. To my regret, my memory had not updated that concrete vision of the inner world that I saw during my NDE and that corresponds to me I can explain it that way: evolutionary and civilization changes took place over there too. If I now, fifty years after that day, would wish to return to my native land, I would not see in myself an image of that district and people as I would know for certain that practically everything there underwent changes.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was cured from anemia - the secret of the Universe settled inside me.  My thinking became global.  I have voluntary wanted not to use my natural extrasensory abilities because I consider them to be a psychological lag on a material world, and I wish so much to return to my inner world.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole moment when I realized that my consciousness was leaving my body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    But only ten years after the experience, when in my country freely began to speak on spiritual topics. Even then people were not sure that these experiences come from my sensible mind, that's why nobody made comments on this topic, but I began to hear from others that they had endured condition of consciousness similar to mine. I have defined for myself that the way the consciousness exits the body depends on spiritual development of a person.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   For about one year I had prophetic dreams. In one of those dreams I dreamt that I even had escaped from the closed premise in which a funeral ceremony took place, I had to punch out a hole in a roof in order to escape.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     My experience was real my soul trembled with happiness that people do not die.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It remained bright memoirs, as one of the memories of my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I was cured from anemia by a miracle.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Actually I told everything already.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would add a column concerning personal evaluation of spiritual development and psychological attachments to the material world.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ludmila_nde.html