{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1luis_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Luis H NDE 7415","mylang":"de"}
          	        Luis H NDE 7415  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Luis H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3773 Luis H NDE 7415  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My death started on a Tuesday, September 11 of 2001. Well first off, that day started with my younger brother having to be taken to the emergency room due to a high fever of 107. The day to me seemed different; it almost felt as if something bad was going to happen. Although, I did not know much about life or death at the age of 10, one thing was certain the events that occurred that day, I will never forget. Thinking about that day as I write this brings chills up my spine because on that day I passed away due to chest congestion and eating while playing sports. 

What led that to happening were two things, and those two things were fear and death. I say fear and death because of what was happening at the time to the people in New York. While the towers collapsed, thousands of people died in that smoke, which was created due to the collapse of the towers. I saw something that I never imagined I would see. I saw was the Devil's face while he smiled at what was occurring. I remember it still to this day because I know he exists and it was because of all that fear and death and his face. What I saw on television somehow led me to my death. Watching all those people die and then seeing the devil's face smile, made me feel inside as if someone had stolen something from me that day. 

I began to eat like crazy and in a sudden moment, I stopped because I saw my friends playing soccer outside my house on the playground. I felt like throwing up while I was playing but never managed to throw up. For some reason we stopped playing and I went inside my house and continued to eat and eat some more. While everyone in my family was watching the images and videos of what happened on that day, and while I continued eating, I would tell my mom to look at the clouds of smoke and ask her if she saw the devil's face. She said, 'Yes,' but no one else saw it.

At 7:55 pm that day, my mother had noticed we were out of milk, so she asked my dad and me to the local store and buy some. What was strange though, was that my father worked for the union in those years so he was hardly ever home.  We got to the van and I felt weird, even my dad noticed it and asked me if I was okay. I replied, 'Yes, I'm okay'. What happened in the van I also felt bad because I had a spider on me that for some reason did not bite me. It was a deadly one, that I am certain. Well as I threw the spider out the window, we began to head to the store. We got to the store with 2 minutes to spare. My dad saw that a man was locking up the doors so he asked me to run as fast as I could to buy the milk.  I got the milk and we headed home. 

Once at home, I felt tired so I went to sleep around 8:30 or 9 pm. The thing was I never felt so weak or tired and what kid would at that age would feel so badly. Nonetheless, I did and went to bed early. What followed afterwards was my death. 

I woke up in a place where everything was white and clear, I felt alive for the very first time. I had no pain, no sadness or anything. All I felt was love and peace. As I looked around a bright light hit my face and blinded me. As I tried getting closer to it, the more at peace I felt.  Suddenly, someone was covering the light and began to get closer and closer to me. As that someone was getting closer to me, my heart felt joy, love and peace. Once he was in front of me, he hugged me and told me that he was my father and the one who created me. When he told me that, I knew I was home but in his words; he told me it was not my time and that he would call me again when it was.  I was to tell my story so that those who do not believe in him could see that he does exist and he is watching over us. Once God told me that, I woke up in the hospital as if nothing ever happened. 

Upon waking up, my parents said that I was vomiting so badly, that the room was wrecked. After that, we left home and the next day my parents began to tell me what happened to me and how everything turned out the way it did. My mom told me she was the one who found me in the room dead. She asked my father and uncle to take me out to try to perform CPR [cardio-pulmonary resuscitation] to get a pulse. As my father was giving me CPR, he asked my mom to go get alcohol from a neighbor. She went outside and screamed, came back in and had nothing, so my dad had to slap her so she could snap out of it and get the alcohol. Once she had the alcohol, the paramedics came and as soon as they saw me they said I was dead and had no way of coming back. My dad with all his heart would not allow them to say that, continued performing CPR, and told God to please not to take me. In that moment, my mother said God heard my father and gave the paramedics a pulse. My mom told me that I was declared dead for 10 minutes. 

After the whole incident, my mother admitted she never saw the face of the devil on the day of 9/11. All I have to say is: that God exists and he knew that my family needed me and others would need me too, that is why he sent me back to share this experience and let those who do not believe in him know he is with all of us.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  9/11/2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Other: Death,  I had a cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Once I was dead and in the presence of God, I began to talk differently and see life differently, as well experience things about the future. Feeling as if something had already happened but it hadn't.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time: everything just made sense.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see things happen before they happened.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard people and their thoughts.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It felt if like I had the sun right in front of my eyes.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Clear and white, I have no doubt it was heaven.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Joy, and Peace

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     More about my life than others, it was sort of like a spiritual awakening for me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I was able to see certain things about me as if it had already happened but had not. Like dΘjα vu.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Not at my own will because it was God who decided it was not my time.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I go to church every Sunday and thank God every day for the life and opportunity he has given me to live this life.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     That God exists.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   God

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   God

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are all connected to one being that created us all.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes, God hugged me and told me it was not my time, so he allowed me to come back.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel I experience a lot of dejα vu.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Able to understand a bit more about life and myself.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     God is real.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     God.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am sometimes fearful of knowing too much about them without really experiencing them first.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am able to feel and see as if something already happened but has not.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Receiving the hug from God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was hard to believe for them, and it helped them to realize there is a God.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1luis_h_nde.html