{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1luz_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Luz H NDE 3681","mylang":"de"}
          	        Luz H NDE 3681  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Luz H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1697 Luz H NDE 3681  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I gave birth to my daughter, and was discharged the following day. On the fourth day, I was taken to the emergency room with a very high fever. There I was placed under observation. Tests were done and they diagnosed appendicitis. I was treated with intravenous drugs. I went on getting worse, and tests showed it was NOT appendicitis. They called for the woman doctor who attended the birth. More tests were done.

But they still did not know what was wrong with me. I entered into shock, and that is when everything began. I felt great peace, and felt no fear in separating from my body. I felt myself floating and that I was rising from the gurney. I could hear people praying all around me but could not react, could not open my eyes or move, etc.

The doctor asked my family to pray for me, said I was in a very bad way, and they did not know what was wrong with me. My family went to the church, and so did the doctor. They started doing bacterial cultures. I was put on four separate drips, two in my legs and two in my arms.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Childbirth  Bacteria en el útero posparto.  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the light and a tunnel, when I went floating off and felt the impulse to depart. But I felt the doctor slap my cheeks and speak to me, moving me to make me react.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed to be running very fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brightness and light. Without opening my eyes, I saw this very brilliant light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard everything and everybody, praying, speaking and weeping.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a tunnel with a narrow beginning, opening at the other end. It was like an inverted cone.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very bright.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     No lo recuerdo.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt myself floating, with a desire to 'go away'.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that death is part of the cycle of life. That we must live for today, which suffices us. That we must live to serve and help others. I have a more personal relationship with my GOD. I speak with HIM and bear witness that he is a LIVING CHRIST.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have dreams and insights into future events. They enter my mind, and they happen.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe much more strongly in the Elder Brother.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe much more strongly in the Elder Brother.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had the opportunity to know this other level.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because I felt peace and felt no fear in separating from my body. I felt myself floating and that I was rising from the gurney. I could hear people praying all around me but could not react, could not open my eyes or move, etc.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I think things which then come out. I dream of events, which come true. I have presentiments, which are correct. I talk to people, and they ask, how do you know this? Sometimes I can telephone people and they say 'I was just about to call you.'

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw it as real, but thought it must be a dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1luz_h_nde.html