{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lucky_nde.html","mytitle":"Lucky NDEs 7021","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lucky NDEs 7021  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lucky NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			3532 Lucky NDEs 7021  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Actually I have had three near death experiences in the last year and half. One NDE I had as an infant, of which I don't remember much.  I was told later in life that I was so sick at one point they almost lost me as I had a really high fever and was slipping away, mind you this was in the 1960's. My parents lived about 40 minutes from the nearest hospital; they rushed me, in the middle of the night, to the emergency room where my Doctor was waiting and this is what I remember. He took my limp body and put me in a metal washtub with water and a lot of ice. I remember seeing the entire room was so bright with light I couldn't make anything out but it was so warm and comfortable I fell asleep that was 46 1/2 years ago. 

All my life I have had dreams of never living beyond 50 or 51 years old. I turned 50 in September and had a major heart attack on Christmas night. I remember collapsing on the kitchen floor and my wife asking me how I wanted to go to the hospital, I said, 'get me to the car'.  Half way to the hospital, it got to where I couldn't breathe without short and fast breaths.  At that time, I remember getting really calm and then everything turned white like someone had a bright light in my face.  Still, it was brighter than any light I've ever seen.  Again, I felt warm and comfortable and really relaxed. I woke up at the hospital with my wife pulling on my arms, trying to get me out of the car and crying loudly. I had three stents put in my left artery. 

Six months later, all three stents collapsed.  I was rushed again to the emergency room.  Nothing happened. One year later on October 29, 2013, I had another major heart attack in the middle of the night. I woke up, sat on the edge of the bed and yelled to my wife to get my nitro. After she got the medicine, she woke my 23-year-old daughter up and had her sit with me while she called 911. I then tried to get up and get to the front of the house.  I don't know why.  When I got up from the bed, I collapsed to the floor.  Again, I needed to breathe as fast and hard as I could, feeling like I couldn't get enough air in my lungs.  Then my daughter told me to try to relax.  At that point, everything went white again.  I felt relaxed and warm all over.  I didn't feel like I needed to breathe hard anymore. I remember coming-to with my daughter crying and yelling at me to don't go to sleep.  The paramedics were trying to get into the room. I don't remember much of the ride to the hospital. 

I had awakened again, this time in the operating room.  I saw the doctor sticking the catheter tube in my leg.  I saw many people moving very fast around me and doing all sorts of things. I was watching this from above my chest. I wasn't floating from the ceiling or anything like that.  I was just barely high enough to see what he was doing and to see myself exposed to the room. After what seemed like forever, I woke up in Intensive Care Unit with my wife and daughter standing there beside me. I have never told ANYONE of this until now. I didn't and still don't want to scare my wife and family but I can't stop thinking of how fast September is coming at which time I'll be 51 in 2014 hoping I was wrong.

By the way, both heart attacks are called the 'widow maker' as they were in the left artery. I now have four stents in a row in that artery and have pain daily.  The doctors say the pain will go away in time. We'll see, I guess.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  10-29-13

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack.    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was having a heart attack and was told later it was the worst kind called the 'widow maker'.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When it first started happening, everything was so clear, voices and the light. Not a beam of light but just light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no feeling of time just presence.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had a hard time focusing on objects and faces.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything around me even when I thought I was out.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Surrounded in white light, warm with no pain and easy to breathe again.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was really scared when it started, then very calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Haven't been in church but about 4 or 5 times in 3 years because of relocation.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I always beleived that you would see a bright light like a beam of light and a tunnel or seeing a figure standing in front of you. (Too much Hollywood I guess) I did see the light just not what I thought it was.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt a feeling of being or an awareness of relaxation.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain     While I did see and feel a light I did not see or hear anything that would suggest life after death just a presence of being.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. I'm trying harder now to take care of things (money, family, property).  In other words, preparing for the end of life the best I can.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I take more time for my wife and family and always visit with my brother and mother when I get to travel back home, even if it is only for an hour.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   While I remember what I did that night I can't tell anyone what I did the day before it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Peace and no pain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just what I had seen on TV or Hollywood.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It felt real then and it still does.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lucky_nde.html