{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lucie_f_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Lucie F Possible NDE 8040","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lucie F Possible NDE 8040  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lucie F Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4178 Lucie F Possible NDE 8040  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am a student in France. One evening after courses, I went for a drink with a boy.  One drink led to another and then we were doing shots. In short, I was unsteady on my feet, and after a few minutes I decided to shorten the date and make a stop at my apartment.  I lived a few streets away from the bar and wanted to join my girlfriends later on for an evening between girls. 

On stumbled all the way home.  I was walking fast and stopped in front of my entrance. I live on the fifth floor and the building has no elevator, so I had some difficulties climbing the stairs. After succeeding to cross the doorway of my apartment, I lock myself in, and collapsed on the floor.  I was on my knees vomiting and then I was overwhelmed by tiredness. I fell asleep for a few minutes.  Upon waking up, I remembered that I have to join my friends.  I decided to cleaned myself, eat some food and then I would join my friends.  I had started to clean myself up; Having only a bathtub and being very tired, I decide to let the water run. My body was very weak but I still could think. I put my telephone to charge, and waited a bit in the bathroom near the hot water, that actually was burning hot because I didn't control the temperature.  The water was still running and the steam evaporated in the bathroom. In order to keep more heat, I had closed the door. Then I was slipping into the water and waiting the tub to finish filling. I was relaxing. I looked at the wall facing me and perceived  that the day was done. I have a skylight  in my bathroom just above my tub, so I couldn't see that,  but the light in the room had dimmed. When I felt too relaxed and the tub was well filled, I closed the tap with my foot. Then I felt literally cradled and fell asleep. In fact the warm water increased my state of intoxication fourfold, as it dilated my veins, and the alcohol put me into a state of coma. I could feel my pulse slow down.  

I felt cold and slipped deeper into this hot water that was comforting me. I had no body anymore and couldn't move. I had to rest my head. I was slipping into the coma. I felt like I was lying in a bed, warm and cozy, while in reality I started to drown. 

It was there that I saw myself! I was floating above myself, but really above, not at the side or in a corner.  It was very pleasant. I saw myself asleep, at peace and at the same time I was above, tied to my body with a thick thread like a cord.  This was reassuring as I could move above my body without getting lost. I was myself but like an energy that felt many things. Time was slow but events were passing fast. I was ultra lucid. There was no sound; I didn't hear anything.  I was like in a bubble. I remember that I looked through the skylight that was now facing me.  At the same height, as I was floating 1 to 2 meters above myself.  I have a memory that I looked at the roofs. I recall this moment where I watched the roofs and very lucidly reflected about my life. Then the most beautiful happened. A bright white light appeared, but it did not have blinding luminosity.  On the contrary, it was captivating and full of love.  The light appeared in my field of vision.  My field of vision was that I could see around myself, below, and etc.  It emanated from a place that seemed to lead somewhere. But I really couldn't move. This light nevertheless came close, as if I had zoomed it. 

I saw no tunnel, as the light even emanated at the interior.  I saw no silhouette.  There was no communication. I didn't see my life passing in front of me. But this light was alive and in fact, it marked me. It was unconditional love. It was as if I also was this light, like a soulmate. It was an energy like myself, but more dissipated and it diffused everywhere. I could spend hours to describe it, to look for the right words. I often think about it.  It is like a love that you cannot forget. It didn't say anything.  It came close and illuminated me as we watched each other. Then I remembered my body and this 'bubble' effect was lesser. I was hearing again.  My brother was screaming and banging at the door of my apartment; I didn't understand at once who it was. Then I felt sick to hear those screams and bangs, as if somebody was trying to join me.  My 'living me' regained life when I integrated into my body through my head; my brain, the eyes and ears, and respiration. 

And there was total pain, noise, and feeling bad.  I was back to life. I understood and saw that I was drowning as I made noises in the water.  I was coughing with excess as I was not swallowing the water.  I believe that this was done to create much noise, so that my soul would come back. It's still very complicated for me to explain as I also didn't want to leave. Then I waited a few minutes to understand what was happening. Getting scared with the bangs and screams, I ejected myself from the tub.  I still don't understand where I found the strength to get up but I went to open the door. Then casually I returned to the bathroom and the water that was not so warm anymore. I wanted to return to the space of happiness, near this light. I was taken out of the water and after the episode, and when my body temperature came back to normal. I was able to think and move. At no time was I scared about what happened. What was hurting me, and made me cry, was the behavior of my family who were worried and upset.  

During several months I wanted to reassure my surroundings about the event and wanted to simply forget it. Then I saw that my behavior changed, my habits changed and I didn't relate it to this event. It wasn't until February-March of this year that I decided to put words on what happened, even at the risk of being considered crazy. My experience is complex, as there was the existence of this real thread, a cord; of this journey with my 'me' between two worlds. It's the existence of this cord, and the fact that I felt the need this summer to inquire about NDE, that I started searching for answer.  I found Dr. Long's book and the website.  I wanted to add experience to your research.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Octobre 2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Drowning. Drug or medication overdose.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I was ultra-lucid, I reflected a lot. When the light appeared, everything was crystal clear.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All through the experience, that I just described. Except that with the mist in the room, especially in the beginning, I had problems seeing well.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was everywhere. I saw everything around myself. Had I wanted to look behind myself (the wall)? I could have done it, but I wasn't attracted by this.  So my vision during the experience limited itself to the front, the sides, above, below, but without moving my being.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clear hearing, but without perceiving sound or rather it was a sound of love coming from the light like an energy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, comprehension, infinite and complete love, absence of solitude

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I'm in a stage of questioning my life, so we will see some time from now ;)

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Maybe the light?

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I didn't get any knowledge. But today I'm sure that death is but love, and that our soul goes on living. I'm not scared anymore.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     That great and beautiful love does exist :)

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I wished I would have the right words to describe it, but there are the colors, perceptions that are difficult to explain...

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   In no time.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     But at the time, I preferred to forget it. I also didn't understand how and why I acted as I did. Why I wanted to go back for example, it's complicated to explain that death is pleasant, liberating and full of love, as it makes no sense.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lucie_f_possible_nde.html