{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1luce_nde.html","mytitle":"Luce NDE 7195","mylang":"de"}
          	        Luce NDE 7195  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Luce NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3657 Luce NDE 7195  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sitting in the waiting room of a veterinary, when I suddenly felt bad. I felt that my body was hurting and I called my friend to help me. 

I had the feeling I was falling into a dark spiral where people were howling. I perceived their faces, that I didn't know, and their hands trying to touch me. I was still falling and falling until the moment when I saw a strong light. At once, I felt appeased. I headed for this light and heard my first name called several times. This call came from elsewhere not from the place where I was in a white tunnel. 

I didn't know what to do and all at once, I felt like I returned heavily into my body, whereas just before I was feeling very light. I was back on the seat at the veterinary and heard the calls more clearly, I opened my eyes and my head was lying on the knees of my friend. My heart was aching, very much, and I remember saying it, ‘my heart, my heart is hurting.’

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  fevrier 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.      Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   For several years I was suffering from endometriosis. I lost weight and had fits of feeling faint. I was urgently hospitalized, two days later, due to an ovarian cyst. I don't know if my life was at danger at this moment.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The voices that were calling me when I was in the tunnel came from the veterinary and my friend.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was called.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was living the present moment normally, so no feeling of acceleration or of slowing down.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My sight was the same. I saw and felt everything as usual.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing seemed stronger the entire time I was not conscious.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The white tunnel, towards which I went, gave me a light feeling of good, and serenity.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It didn't seem natural to me, but it was appeasing.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A mix of fear when the people tried to touch me, and of appeasement when I arrived in the tunnel.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Not immediately, but with the time, yes.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     les personnes qui criaient et voulaient me toucher m'ont fait peur d'une certaine façon et je n'arrive pas encore aujourd'hui a comprendre ce passage au milieu d'elles. la lumiere, les chretiens en parlent et elle etait douce chaude et apaisante.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't believe anymore in God but in Christ, but not as cited in the Bible. For me, He is a being that has been living, with very strong gifts (a medium, a healer).

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No     non pas mystique, simplement la sensation de ne pas être seule

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain     toutes ses choses et personnes que j'ai vu m'on semblaient très reel.je ne crois plus en dieu aujourd'hui mais aux anges, aux âmes qui sont la autour de moi et me protègent ou me suivent dans mon quotidien.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life. I believed in God, but after this experience I started to tend more to the existence of beings surrounding us and protecting us.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   tout ce que j'ai vu et ressenti pendant cette expérience est gravée dans ma tête comme des images indélébiles.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Everything I saw and felt during this experience is engraved in my head like indelible pictures.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't remember the amount of time that passed. People are skeptical; they didn't know what I experienced. So very special, you have to experience it to be able to believe it, that's my motto today!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I didn't understand what was happening to me, I couldn't find the words to talk about it. The others wouldn't believe me and I couldn't speak about it right away. I was also afraid, and felt appeasement in the light.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It remained unimpaired all those years. I know what I saw and felt.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       All those things and persons I saw seemed very real to me. Today I'm not believing in God anymore, but in angels, and in the souls, that are there surrounding and protecting me in my daily life. Not a mystical universal connection, I simply have the sensation of not being alone. The people that screamed and wanted to touch me, in a certain way raised fear in me; and today I still cannot understand my passing between them. The light, the Christians are speaking about it, was soft, warm and appeasing.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1luce_nde.html