{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lu_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Lu F NDE 7636","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lu F NDE 7636  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lu F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3918 Lu F NDE 7636  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I began to suffer allergic reactions and the specialists couldn't find a suitable treatment. The clinician had prescribed me an injection of decadron, a medicine I have avoided for many years. I told him my family and friends about my 'innocent' experience of leaving my body and the world far beyond. I was sitting on the first stair of some steps, which led to the terrace.  I am still living in the same house with some changes and improvements. Suddenly I fainted. 

I saw myself leaving my body with no pain, nor intensity from my body I sat at the bottom of the stairs. I knew years later that this experience was called 'Astral travel'. My new body was propelled from above in millionths of a second.  I had no notion of time.  I remember while I was going up, asking some people who were visible but had no bodies, but I don't remember what happened. 'Where are you taking me?' While I rose, I could clearly see my body below with my family trying to make me respond and trying to wake me. 

They surrounded me, I don't remember many details. Other powers lifted me up, like two forces that I couldn't manage to control. On arriving at the terrace, already out of sight of the astral journey, but with an absolute clarity I saw people dancing dressed in white as if transparent and luminous, of all ages. 

Someone beckoned me with a gesture. I realized that something strange had happened, and I don't know if I spoke or if it had been a mental communication, I said I would go back home. The said no, but I was going to be OK. Then someone asked me why I didn't want to go in and I answered something childish, of that particular age, that I had never had a boyfriend. At that very moment a woman appeared, dressed in black, with sweeping skirts, of the Southern Italian type, as were my grandparents, and great grandparents, whom I had never met. 

She fixed her gaze on me, and intervened before other women, whose faces I don't remember, and in less than a second I awoke. I recounted what had happened, and what I had experienced while I had been gone. The things they said to wake me up, the previous experience. My mother took it all in her stride, but never said 'It's just a dream' but stayed quiet. From her, I inherited gifts of clairvoyance clairaudience telepathy and many other psychic gifts. I researched my ancestors, and it wasn't a coincidence that they came from the Lipari and Cosenza Islands. My maternal grandmother and her ancestors arrived on Stromboli, an Island, that at that time had only 1500 inhabitants or less, from time immemorial. She came to live in Argentina with her parents, at the age of 23, and married a civilian, born in Filicudi. My grandfather José always said the word Stromboli in his dialect; I don't know if it was a joke, as Stranguele or something like 'Strangulated' and that this Island was famous because it was where the witches’ covens would meet. According to him, every Friday night, the witches of Filicudi met up in Stromboli, mounted on broomsticks.  Years later, I learned that female political activists met in Stromboli which was a 'safe' place, to foment the ideals of women expelled from Italy during the Inquisition, and that the island served as a jail, for those that had progressive thoughts during the Inquisition). The navigation inherited from Phoenician merchants 1500 years BC had secured Filicudi as a commercial port, of prestige, during the middle and modern ages. It was my grandmother who explained to me the political plans of the masons, the press and how to read between the lines and many other things of popular wisdom and carried out in her age.

Getting back to my experience, I will say that I tried to erase it for many years. Nevertheless in a 'coincidental' way I picked up some old magazines, published with a wealth of details. I don't remember the exact date these things happened but, as I have explained, in my family this kind of thing was always happening, all your life, I can't say that these magazines had influenced me with similar stories to mine. 

The woman, who appeared in order to stop me from going into that other world of light, impressed me greatly. I had forgotten her years later, already engaged to Antonio the father of my boy. I saw a photo of his Italian grandmother, born in Cariati, in southern Italy, in close up, and I knew for certain it was her. I asked the date of her death and I can't say if she was alive or newly dead, at that time. 

Well, I was able to ascertain that she wore this type of extravagant clothes, for going out, and for her retirement and that she was with her eldest grandson, Toni, whom she adored, and who was one year older than me. Also during those years, Antonio's youngest brother had died in an accident.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It was an experience of great pleasure.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As I have already mentioned.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the entire experience I was alert and conscious.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I can't say how much time passed. I suppose it was a few minutes, but I had no notion of time, except when I had the release, and I saw those around me, anxiously because I wouldn't wake up, when I said what had happened it was exactly as it had happened 'below'.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Beyond words.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    After the experience, (that at first I had dismissed as a nice dream), I began to research psychic abilities. My high IQ was relevant data, which I reliably knew at 18 years, but the experience never created a significant change in my life. These circumstances caused my Black Label and proscription by the CIA, for many years.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I went up some stairs, without footsteps, carried up by a great force.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I didn't recognize anyone. Later I had the inexplicable experience that without memory being able to recognize the grandmother of the father of my boy.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     In my family we never talked of Kingdoms and mysticism or supernatural phenomena, we dealt with them as normal and natural.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     It was very fast and I don't remember much except not reviewing my life in a second as people usually say.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   The main reason was to live my life like any other normal adolescent.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Actualmente adopté posturas religiosas ecuménicas.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     My religious experience as a Catholic brought me to an ecumenical way of thinking, which all the historical literature tried to articulate with its numerous metaphors and allegories.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     Muchas evidencias que exceden la Near Death Experience que me revelan que Dios está en todos lados y todos somos una partícula de Dios (cada religión lo denomina de maneras diversas pero habla del mismo fenómeno comprobable).

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I read and study a lot of material, science and information, - which are not the same thing – and in general they should stop being used to manipulate people, or to sell a religious product like a business.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     It was an experience that reaffirmed my religious belief, in a supreme being not recognizable as an image.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The importance of affection; the rest I would like to keep to myself.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     In the experience I was able to see angelic beings dancing and laughing.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love was the motivation to return. I have already mentioned it.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Spiritual / religious life is not at the centre of my life, because the experience is not like a doubt I carry and I have to clarify every day.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The psychic gifts I recognized with time, because they seemed to me to be entirely natural, I shared them in my family and never considered them special.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Probably that my tendency towards poetry which has flourished in recent years as a pleasant activity that should be considered as based on the NDE, but I can't confirm that, given that previous to it, I was passionate about the world of poetry and lyricism. Many of my poems refer to my NDE.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it immediately.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I considered it natural, but I had no idea that it may have been something paranormal. A few weeks later, I started to faint in my bath at home. As the bathroom had a patio, it was well enough ventilated, because when I didn't respond to their calls, and they came in, the door had a flimsy lock, the precarious gas bottle water heater, had extinguished. I have no memory of this experience, but I have come to the conclusion that death was stalking me and I was of the persuasion that I wasn't going to let it into my life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was a multi-faceted experience, and lately they have led me to the conclusion that they were definitively real.  Neither were they very transcendental. I have experienced other things that were much stronger as well.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I did it on many occasions, and as I have mentioned earlier, they are in my poems, more frequently than I may have looked for them.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't believe so.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lu_f_nde.html