{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lucinda_t_fde.html","mytitle":"Lucinda T FDE 3536","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lucinda T FDE 3536  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lucinda T FDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						1576 Lucinda T FDE 3536  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had to run into the sea to rescue my (profoundly deaf) daughter. To summarize, I was repeatedly knocked under the waves, and twice carried along, arms pinioned, rotating slightly, in the undercurrent. I prayed, 'Help me Jesus', and felt the concomitant calm. During the longer of the two periods, I naturally assumed I was surely to die. At this stage I saw five amazingly spiritually beautiful people coming towards me, full of vigor, with a lift in the stride, and the light played around them which was emanating from them. They were in white and pale clothes, and one lady had a white dress with material with a blue floral pattern inset. The man slightly in front had fair hair, parted. He already knew exactly how I had come to be there; I was relieved by this. They were amazingly friendly and warm, and I was so pleased to meet them, and still feel really fond of them. I had never seen any of them before. They were warmer, kinder, more gracious and more alive, at one with their purpose, than anyone I have ever met on earth. But I said to God that I had four children, and that this didn't seem the right time - and shortly after an incoming wave, and an outgoing wave met each other and I got my chance to push up. I spent rather a lot of time mourning the lost 'opportunity'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  5th January 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Thoroughly conscious and alert throughout.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Thoroughly conscious and alert throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Altered space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Don't know if they were open or closed.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, orderliness, sense of the bizarre, wry humor, resignation.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Only in the sense that I knew they knew what had happened in my life. And I discovered how fast you can let go of what you have to and who you have to and forgive people, when you know you just have to, very sharp-ish.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian of a charismatic evangelical British Anglican hue

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I stress grace and mercy more and am a bit more critical of the administration-bound blindness of the religious institution. Judge people against the people I met, who were a new yardstick.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian same as above

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I stress grace and mercy more and am a bit more critical of the administration-bound blindness of the religious institution. Judge people against the people I met, who were a new yardstick.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   As an English graduate I enjoy and feel very comfortable with words; nevertheless some aspects are difficult to describe e.g. the quality of the coloring of the light emanating and playing around the people I saw.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Already written.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Careful who and how shared. Most people cannot get it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Amazing. Expanded my understanding. Mercy and grace are so central.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     More real than much of the dross of everyday life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lucinda_t_fde.html