{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1louis_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Louis S NDE 4968","mylang":"de"}
          	        Louis S NDE 4968  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Louis S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2558 Louis S NDE 4968  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was involved in a head-on collision with an eighteen-wheeler. I had severe head trauma and numerous broken bones throughout my body. I was immediately knocked unconscious, and when I came to, I could barely breathe due to my broken ribs. I had to slow my breathing to a minimum to ease the pain, and that's when I had the 'Experience'.

I was walking down what seemed like a bright hallway. Then I came upon a break in the wall - a gap that had bars like those of a jail cell, stopping anyone or anything from getting through. It was black behind the gap. I was curious and wondering where I was. About this time, both of my deceased grandmothers appeared from nowhere. One stood there just looking at me and the other was telling me to go back, that I couldn't come in yet. I looked beyond her into the black darkness and felt the presence of my deceased grandfather, my deceased great-grandmother and uncles - family members I had never met. I felt them and saw their spirits gathering in one area. My grandmother was adamant that I didn't take another step. I wanted to continue and she saw this. At this time, she yelled out to me, 'STOP! Cameron (my daughter) is going to need you!' (I was divorced and my daughter lived with my ex at the time.) As soon as she mentioned my daughter's name, I thought to myself, 'Cameron!' I took one-step back and I was sucked out of the hallway at supersonic speed.

Immediately I came to in my truck, gasping for a breath of air and I noticed the tarp covering my truck. I had to get the attention of the rescue workers on the scene. I was pinned, but able to move the tarp through the broken window. At this time I heard someone holler out, 'He's alive, He's alive!' and the rescue started. It took them well over an hour to cut me from the wreckage and life-flight me to a hospital forty miles away. If my grandmothers hadn't been watching over and guiding me after death, I can honestly say I wouldn't be here today. I wanted to continue down the hallway - there was a sense of peace and calmness that I'd never felt before.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  11-11-04

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Head on car accident  Head on car accident. I was considered dead and vehicle tarped waiting to someone to arrive and pronounce me dead. I came back after my experience.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Seconds prior to returning to my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Seconds prior to returning to my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was truly not of this world. That is for sure!

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     What I saw was all black and white, and the figures I saw were transparent and hovering / gliding in a ghostly way.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Deceased family members, see above.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was more like a hallway, but it was bright to the left and I was unable to make out anything but brightness there, but to the right there was clearly a bright wall in which there was a gap with bars over it. It was completely black behind it, and the spiritual figures were within. I only felt the presence of my deceased family members, no one/nothing else.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     depends on your terminology of distinctive. It was another dimension for sure !!

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I never felt scared. At first I was curious, and then amazed, then saw my grandmothers and was happy, then felt the presence of deceased family members and in awe at their coming together to meet me (that's what it seemed like) then sadness when my daughter's name was mentioned.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not really. I did end up with my daughter living with me because her mother had to go away. So my grandmother was right, Cameron did need me - it was one and a half years later and she is still with me today!!

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     My grandmother told me my daughter would need me in the future, and that ended up being correct.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     It was at the edge of the gap/opening where I was told to stop and not take another step. I now feel if I had taken that next step, I wouldn't have had a choice as to whether I could go or come back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I do pray more and I thank God for my life that has been given back to me!

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I do pray more and I thank God for my life that has been given back to me!

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Not personally, but I felt that the spirits did. I felt they could see the future and guide me, as would a guardian angel.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Several. Mainly that the two most important people ever in my life, my two grandmothers, were both there to guide me as they had in the real world.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only with a few, and the response was what I figured it would be - 'You must've dreamed that.'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I experienced my accident in dreams a little at a time over many weeks after returning from the hospital, until one night I dreamed the entire episode without interruption.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Nothing self-inflicted, but the memory is true and clear to this day.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was awesome!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1louis_s_nde.html