{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 5918","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n42_jul_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N42 July 1887","mylang":"de"}
No. XLII.-VoL. III JULY, 1887.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Associates.. •. .. .. ..
Meetinp; of Council .. .. .. . .
General Meeting .. .. .. .. ..
Cases Received by the Literary Committee
Correspondence .. . . .. ..
Supplementary Library Ca.talogue
NEW ASSOCIATES.
BALL, THOMAS STA"~LEY, Spring Bank, Fulwood, near Preston.
PAGE
•• 129
•• 129
•• 130
•• 182
.• 136
.. 148
CHURCH, MRS. MARY M., Ashland, Schuylkill Co., Pennsylvania,U.S.A.
ELLIS, MRS. ROBERT, 40, Keppel-street, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Fox, ST. GEORGE LANE, National Liberal Club, London, S.W.
FREEMAN, MISS ADELAIDE C., Holcombe Cottage, Westcott, Dorking.
KUHLENBECK, DR. LUDWIG, Osnabriick, Germany.
TINCKLER, MRS., 496, Oxford-street, London, W.
TEVEZ, VICTOR P., Llandaff House, South.road, Clapham Park,
London, S.W.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 17th of June, the following
Members were present :-Professor H. Sidgwick (in the chair),Professor
W. F. Barrett, Messrs. Edmund Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, Frank
Podmore, and H. Arthur Smith.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Eight new Associates, whose names and addresses are given above,
were elected. .
It was agreed that two Members, Mr. Oscar Browning and Miss A.
M. M. Hogg, should, at their request, continue as Associates.
The decease of Mrs. Georgiana B. Kirby, of California, an Associate
of the Society, was recorded with regret
It was agreed that the names of five Members and Associates, whose
subscriptions had remained for some time unpaid, or whose present
addresses could not be ascertained, should be struck off the List.
Cash accounts for the moriths of April and May were presented in
the usual form.
It was resolved that the issue of the Journal should be suspended
during the months of August and Septeml>er.
The next ME".eting of the Council was fixed for Friday, the 29th of
July.
K
Digitized by Google
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1887.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held on Friday evening, June 17th, at
the rooms of the Society of British ArtistiS, Suffolk-street, Pall Mall.
Professor Barrett took the' chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read a paper on "Active and Passive Automa-
tism-the Dremon of Socrates," of which the following is an abstract :-
The subject of Automatism widens as we look into it ; and in order
to understand the automatic writing which was our first subject of
inquiry, we have to take account of analogies of many kinds. In our
last paper we discussed some pathological cases which showed a.
tendency to the formation of a separate mesmeric chain, or secondary
personality, resembling the soi-disant personalities which communicate
through planchette. To-day I wish briefly to review some other modes of
automatic self-manifestation, message-bearing or annunciati'Ve like
planchette, but some of them active in ways other than writing, and
some of them apparently passi'Ve,-or, as I prefer to put it, messages
by one stratum of the self to another through sensory .rather than
through motor channels.
We will take first a mode of auto~atism closely analogous to writing,
which can be easily practised, and which has been often misunderstood.
I mean table-tilting; the attainment of a message by tilts of a table
(not raps proper, which are a different thing), so managed as to spell
out the letters of the alphabet. This is the simplest form of verbal
message; as employed, for instance, by prisoners in contiguous cells.
These tilts, we may for the present assume, are due to unconscious
muscular pressure on the part of the sitter or sitters; but the messages
thus obtained afford a curious inlet into the chaos of fragmentary
cerebration which is always proceeding within us. [Instances given,
and co-operation in experiment earnestly asked for.] Another form of
active automatism is automatic utterance or trance-spea.king. But
besides these automatisms which run parallel to the active or motor
side of verbalisation--i.e., to word_writing and word-uttering-there
are automatisms which run parallel to the sensory side of varbalisa-
tion-to word-hearing II-nd word-seeing. It is true that messages thus
conveyed to the conscious self are not usually classed as automatisms,
but as hallucinations; yet they are fundamentally the same phenomenon.
They represent messages travelling upwards, so to speak, from uncon-
scious to conscious strata of the self, thus effecting their purpose by
the externalisation of sensory images, rather than by muscular move-
ment. Where these messages come up from what may be termed the
dream-stratum, as in dreams or madness, the close intertexture of
sensory and motor elements is obvious enough. Our' dreams are a
jumble of incipient vision, incipient audition, incipient speech. Th.,
Digitized by Google
.July, 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'Ch. 131
madman sometimes vociferates incoherently himself, sometimes listens
to the imaginary utterances of persecutors or angels. Again when the
messages travel up from the ltypnotic stratum, sensory and motor effects
.are practically interchangeable. When we inspire a post-hypnotic
suggestion it is equally easy to make our subject speak or write, or to
make him hear or see hallucinatory words.
Going deeper down to the telepathic stratum of our being, we find
that telepathic messages (as the cases cited in Phantasms of tlte Living
.show) sometimes work themselves out in a motor form-prompting to
writing, speech, or movement of a more general kind; and sometimes in
a sensory form, as hallucinations of sight, hearing, or touch. Following
these analyses, it is natural to inquire whether any phenomenon-
automatic in the sense of not being consciously originated-exists on
the sensory side in parallelism with the phenomena of automatic
writing and speech. It is plain that an automatic activity of the word-
.seeing centre (if more than a mere delusive hallucination) wQuld be a
kind of clairvoyance. An automatic activity of the word-hearing centres
(again assuming that something deeper than mere insane delusion is
involved) would result in what are called monitory voices-a more or
less completely externalised audition, whose substance is at least
coherent, and perhaps superior in sagacity to the subject's conscious
trains of thought.
The Dremon of Socrates affords a conspicuous historical instance
Qf such monition ;-difficult to expla.in except on the view that a
profounder stratum of the sage himself was thus communicating with
the superficial or conscious stratum, in messages indicating at least a
deeper insight--perhaps a wider purview-than the conscious Socrates
could attain.
The voices which inspired Joan of Arc were of the same kind.
Here, too, we have a message penetrating from the subconscious to the
conscious strata of the personality, and acting as a stimulus to draw
Qut from the organism its maximum of force. Nor need such an
interpretation be in reality less encouraging than was the reference of
the voice to a divine power by Socrates, or to saints and angels by
Joan. If there be something deep within us which prompts to noble
action, even when that action manifestly leads to death, we may
conjecture that tltat cannot be an evil to which we are thus authorita-
tively invited.
A short discussion followed the reading of this paper. Mr. Lane
Fox insisted that a true conception of the Self could not be reached
except by the aid of Oriental philosophy. Major Taylor referred to the
difficulty of supposing that a message tilted out by a table at which
several persons were sitting was a reflection of the unconscious action
K 2
Digitized by Google
132 JO'/J/fflal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1881.
of some one of them alone. Mr. Lockhart reported a case where the
movements of the table appeared to be such as unconscious pressure
could not have caused. Mr. Myers, in reply to Mr. Lane Fox, pointed
out that, whatever truths might be in Oriental philosophy, the raison
d'2tre of the S.P.R:. consisted in the application, as far as possible.
of the scientific method to problems hitherto left to metaphysical
or religious speculation. He admitted the difficulty urged by Major-
Taylor, and advised careful experiment as to the effect on the auto-
matic a.nswers of the presence or absence of each presumed automatist.
in turn. In reply to Mr. Lockhart, he urged the use of some simple
contrivance which should make it mechanically impossible to communi-
cate movement by mere pressure,-as by protecting a tongue of wood
by a cardboard penthouse, on which the hands might be laid. Until
movements could be induced either without contact, or with contact so
applied as to be demonstrably unable to produce the movement, the
mere impression of the automatist that the movement was independent
of his pressure could not be held conclusive.
The Chairman reinforced the appeal for further experiment.
The Meeting then assumed a conversational character.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G.-179
From Mra. Morris, of Pentrabach, Trecastle, Breconshire.
'this account originally appeared in Rifts in the Veil (p. 101), published
in 1878, by Mr. W. H. Harrison. It is there reported, from memory
apparently, by Miss Theobald. The account has been sent to Mrs. Morris,
who accepts· it as correct. The account has also been read through
and signed by Miss E. B. B. (the sister who was present at the scene last
described), who refuses, however, to write an independent account, or to
allow her name to be given.
From Rifts i1~ the Veil, p. 101 (published 1878).
One cold winter's night I awoke, and to my great surprise I found there
was bright firelight in the room. I sat up in bed and noticed that the
ordinary grate was not to be seen, but in its place appeared an old-fashioned
open hearth upon which was blazing a splendid fire, the light of which filled
the room and had woke me up. I saw a small strip of carpet laid down in
front of the fire, but there was no fender. When we went to bed there had
been a large fender, but no carpet and no fire.
As I looked with astonishment, I particularly remarked a bright pair of
brass fire-dogs, with very curious and pretty twisted fireirons resting upon
them. By the side of the fire was a beautifully-carved oak arm-chair,
made with a square seat, the point of which was in front, and a rounded
back. It was such a chair as was used 200 years ago. In this
chair was sitting an old man; he was resting his elbow on the arm of the
chair, and with his hand supporting his head; he was looking directly
towards me, with an intent, sad gaze.
Digitized by Google
.July,1887.] Journal oj Society /01' p'<jychical Resea1·ch. 133
He was dressed in the style of the' olden times-200 years ago-with
knee breeches and stockings. I noticed, curiously, the flicker of the fire, as
it was r:eflected in his bright knee and shoe buckles.
I woke my sister, who was sleeping with me. saying, "Do you not see
that old man sitting by the fire 1" She sat up by my side. but saw nothing,
.and advised me to .. Go to sleep," advice she acted upon herself, but I lay
down and shut my eyes for a time, then sat up, and again saw the scene that
I have described, and watcHed it for some little time, for I was not in the
leaSt frightened, not even at the sight of the old man, and I often wish I had
.spoken to him. At last I lay down and went to sleep. On awaking in the
morning, my sister asked me what I had been talking about in the night,
fully admitting that when I awoke her I was myself most fully awake, and
not in a dreaming condition. We had been living in the house about two
months when this occurred, and we found that it was known throughout the
town to be haunted. We lived there nearly two years, and during the
whole time were annoyed by mysterious knockings and noises, but the
." White Lady" did not show herself until just as we were leaving.
My father and mother had already returned home, sending me, with my
.younger sister and a young housemaid, to finish the packing up. On the
Saturday evening my sister and I went out, leaving the servant to cord some
.boxes, and put the rooms in order; we did not return till past ten o'clock,
when, to our surprise. we found the servant sitting in the hall with the front
-door open. She began to cry on seeing us, saying she had been much
frightened. She told us that after we had gone out, and she had. changed
her dress, as she was coming out of her room, which opened on to th.. front
-staircase, she thought she saw me coming upstairs, only I had changed my
dress, and had on a long white one; she exdaimed, "Oh! Miss A., you are
never going out, just now, in your best white dress?"
By the time she had said this the figure was close up to her; then she
saw it was a woman, dressed in a long trailing gown of some white material,
but she could not distinguish any face. The figurll stopped when quite close
to her, and suddenly she thought what it really was--the ghost I-upon
which, with a scream, she sprang over the flowing train, ran down into the
hall, and had been sitting by the open door ever since. She had seen the
figure walk into the drawing-room.
The girl was so much alarmed that I told her she could make up a bed
for herself in the room that I, with my sister, was occupying. It was the
bedroom where I had seen the old man by the fire. That night passed
quietly, but the next night a strange thing happened. We were very late;
it was past tweh-e before we all three retired to our room. You will
understand that there was no one else in the house but our three selves. As
the door would not latch securely, I placed before it, to keep it shut, a chair,
with a heap of things upon it. The servant and my sister were in bed.
1 was standing by the dressing-table, when suddenly the door was pushed
,open so violently that the chair was thrown out into the middle of the room.
I turned round sharply, and there saw, standing in the doorway, the tall
figure of a woman in Do long white dress, such as had been described by the
.servant. The sudden opening of the door had so terrified both the servant
Digitized by Google
1B4 Journal of Society fOT Psychical Research. [July, 1887L
and my sister that I was compelled to give my attentioq to calming both or
them down. I did not tell them what I had seen, as I would not frighten
them more. I should add that when the figure went away, the door was.
drawn to again.
Some few minutes passed before I had quieted my sister. I then lighted
a night-light, and put out the candle preparatory to getting into bed myself.
To my surprise 1 saw, when the room was thus darkened, that there was a..
bright seam of light all round the door, which would not close tightly. I
went and opened the door, and found the whole passage illuminated by this
white light, as light as day, but I saw no more of the figure. This frightened'
me dreadfully, but I could only jump into bed and feel glad it was our last
night in that house.
I should say that for many years that room had been nailed up as unfit.
for occupation, on account of the haWlting; it had not been very long un-·
fastened when we went to stay there. E. B. B.
Mrs. Morris adds :-
Pentrabach, Trecastle, near Brecon, South Wales.
August 31st, 1884.
I have carefully read over the account you forward me of my singular'
experiences at Lyme Regis, and shall proceed to answer your questions as.
fully as is in my power.
As to the duration of the apparition, as far as I can remember from ten.
minutes toa quarter ofan hour. I certainly saw the whole scene as described.
during the time my sister sat up by my side.
I fear the servant cannot be traced, but will make the attempt. She left
ourservice six or seven years ago.
I found a curious account of the house in a.n old history of Dorset, but.
have never heard any perlon describe appearances in the house. Callers used.
to asked if we knew " Judge J effrays" had stayed in the house, and if we had.
ever heard it was supposed to be haunted, &0.
This, I should explain, was not until after the appearance of the old man,.
which took place very shortly after we went there.
This will answer also yQur eighth question, as numbers of people had
made these remarks half laughing. The landlady was extremely angry at.
our mentioning these things, and threatened to summons the servant if
it was repeated, or indeed anyone that interfered with the letting of her-
house, which \Vas my reason for not wishing the name of the house to be,
published.
You are quite welcome t.o use my name, should you ever see fit; to.
publish this account. MARY ETHEL MORRIS.
Mrs. Morris writes again :- &ptemheT 9th., 1884.
I anl enclosing my sister's written account of my curious experience at
Lyme Regis in 1875. r will copy what she says about the dates, as I thought.
she has a clearer idea of them than I have.
"I am anlused at your vague idea of the time we went to L--. We,
went there Oil the 16th of December. 1874, one year after papa was taken
ill, which, as you remember, was the 16th of December, 1873. Probably I
have more 1'6as011 for remembering all that happened along there than you.
Digitized by Google
July,1887.] JO'lJ,rnal Of Society for Psychical Research. 135
have. We went to the Christmas dance, and it must have been early in
February that' one Jones' appeared to you, as -- came down for a week
from the 21st of January, and it was not until after he had left, but it was
not long after.
" You returned to Brooke Lodge in September, 1876, the 21st or 22nd.
It was, I know, a day or two after the lair, so that Mary Ann's experience
must have come off on the night of the 18th or 19th.. I can, I expect, get
Mary Ann's address, if you like."
From Miss Lucia B., sister of Mrs. Morris.
Topsham, South Devon, September 4th, 1884.
Although I have constantly heard of strange things happening in the
house in which we lived for nearly two years, I myself never heard or saw
anything beyond the slamming of doors at night, doors which we knew to be
locked. With respect to what my sister saw one cold night early in February,
1875, I perfectly recollect her awaking me and saying she saw an old man
Bitting in front of the fire·place, in which she aBBerted there was a large fire.
I myself saw only that it was very dark, but I am fully convinced that my
sister was quite awake and not dreaming at the time, also that she sawall
that she has stated at that time, and also the later appearance.
LUCIA C. B.
Mrs. Morris writes again :- September 17th, 1884.
You will by now have received my letter enclosing my sister's statement
and Miss Theobald's account of my experiences at L--. Her account is
much in the form I gave it her, and I did not see in it anything that required
altering.
I enclose a short account of the noises I spoke of, and of my own personal
experiences in different ways. I have often spoken of them among friends,
and certainly have neyer, to my knowledge, been the subject of hallucinations
in any way (i.e., except such as have been veridical or doubtful.-F. P.).
During our stay of nearly two years' duration in the house before spoken
of at L-, we were constantly hearing odd noises, generally at night, or at
evening. A door leading to a cupboard in the drawing-room (which was
directly under my bedroom) would sometimes bang loudly, although I and my
sister, who shared my room, had carefully locked it before retiring for the
night. This was of frequent occurrence. Also the sound of a heavy tread
coming upstairs towards our room door, which sounded like the tread of a
person coming slowly upstairs and wearing heavy boots, and always pausing
when apparently close to the top. This sound was of a lesa frequent
occurrence, and we sometimes thought might have been caused by rats.
The house being old, rats abounded. On one occasion, when sitting up with
my father, both he and I and the servant, who had gone that instant to a
bedroom opposite for a few hours' sleep, heard a most piercing and awful
scream ; so terrible was it that my father started up with the exclamation,
"Good God I What's that 1" I sprang from my chair, and Charlott-., the
servant. came to the door in horror to know if I had " heard that." She had
gone to my mother's room, who was quietly asleep; and on going from
room to room we found eyery member of the family asleep. The scream
Digitized by Google
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea'l'Ch. [July, 1881.
lasted some secoRds and seemed to fill the air of the whole house. It was
beyond description. '
October 22nd, 1884.
As to the disturbances at L--, I only remember hearing the sound of
the door we had locked bang loudly. It was, to the best of my remembrance,
always locked in the morning.
I must tell you, as I should have done at first, that I am one of
four sisters, and that it was my sister Lucia who was with me at the
time I saw the old man, but my sister ,Edith at the time the figure of
the woman came and the room door was opened. I shall be writing to her
this week and will ask her to tell me what she remembers of the event.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the JOURNA.L OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEA.RCH.
SIR,-In Part XI. of the Society's ProceedincJs, the paper describing how
Mr. Eglinton was detected by Professor Carvill Lewis and others in the
performance of fraudulent slate-writing, was introduced by two accounts of
what were considered by the witnesses to be genuine and conclusive seances:
and I was asked to annotate these accounts with the object of showing why
we regarded them as inconelusive. I observe, in Light for June 18th, that
"M.A. (Oxon.)," the writer of one of these accounts, thinks the character of
my notes "extremely captious." I mention this, not as complaining of the
expression, which I regard as very natural considering that he states thai
he has "not had an opportunity of studying with care" the experiments of
Professor Co.rvill Lewis.and Mr. Davey; my desire is rather to emphasise-
what others besides" M.A. (Oxon.)" may possibly have failed to catch-the
intimate connection between my notes and these experiments. For the
novelty and interest of Mr. Davey's investigations lie precisely in the proof
they afford that the kind of suggestions of mal-observation ud lapse of
memory which I have made in the case of .. M.A. (Oxon.)" and others, are
not captious or over-refined. We can now refer to a laTge accumulation of
evidence, proving that mal-observation and lapse of memory of the kind and
degree required do actually occur, and so frequently that we cannot fairly
accuse the witnesses of unusual or culpable carelessness.
Take an instance :-" M.A. (Oxon.)" thinks it a.bsurd to suppose that
at his seance Mr. Eglinton himself read the number of the cheque enclosed
in the locked slate. Why is it absurd, when we find a more surprising
conjuring performance of Mr. Davey's thus desclibed (see Proceedill,gs, XL,
p. 471):-
"The next thing he showed me was a slate which locked up with a patent
lever lock. After I had washed the alate, he asked me to write down on the
inside any question I liked, then put a piece of chalk in, lock it up, and put
the key in my pocket. The question I asked was, ' What kind of weather
shall we have to-morrow l' He was out of the room while I wrote it down,
and it was locked up by the time he came back ; he then placed it on
the table, the gas being alight at the time, we joined hands and put thenl
on the top of the slate. After a little I again heard writing, and when I opened
it there was the answer, in red chalk, each side of the slate: 'Ask the
Digitized by Google
,July, 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 137
·clerk of the weather.' It had been written with the piece of chalk I had
put in. I am quite certain the slate had not been opened after I had locked
it up."
Why could not Mr. Eglinton read and write down the number of the
cheque in a locked slate under the observation of" M.A. (Oxon.)," if Mr.
Davey could read and answer a question in a locked slate under similar
,observation 1
Again, "M. A. (Oxon.)" challenges me to explain how Mr. Eglinton,
,at a seance in Russia, read the number of a bank-note enclosed in a sealed
envelope. 1 do not think that I am bound to take up the challenge, since
the only account of the incident to which "M.A. (Oxon.)" refers is Mr.
Eglinton's own! But even if this account were confirmed by another wit-
ness of unquestioned probity, it would be sufficient to reply by another
question. How did MI. Davey read the number of the coin in the case
.described as follows (Proceedings, XI., p. 469) ;-
"I took a coin from my pocket without looking at it, placed it in an
·envelope and sealed it up. I am certain that neither Mr. Davey nor myself
knew anything about the coin. I then placed it in the book-slate together
with a piece of pencil, closed it as previously and deposit.ed it on the table;
.a.nd havin~ placed my hands with those of Mr. Davey on the upper surface
of the slate, waited a short time. I then unlocked the slate as requested,
.and to my intense amazement I found the date of the coin written, by the
.side of the env210pe containiag it. The seal and envelope (which I have now)
remained intact." .
In the two cases I have quoted we know that mal-observation and lapse
·of memory must have occurred from the nature of the description, combined
with Mr. Davey's assertion that the performance was mere conjuring. If
independent evidence is desired we may turn to a sitting at which Mr.
Hodgson was present. Take, for instance, the incident marked [c] at
p. 427, too long to quote, but ending thus ;-
" This test seemed to me perfect. The slate was under my own eye on top
-of the tabJe the whole time, and either my daughter's hand or my own was
placed firmly upon it without the intermission of even a second. Moreover,
we closed and opened it ourselves."
And read Mr. Hodgson's comment at p. 488 ;-
"This statement is erroneous. Mrs. Y. had not the slate under her eye
the whole time, nor was it the case tha.t either her daughter's hand or her
own was placed upon it continuously." .
I must further observe that, though anyone who reads carefully the
accounts of Mr. Davey'S performances and of Mr. Eglinton's will, I think,
perceive a striking similarity between tllem, it is not in any way necessary
for our argument to prove tllat they closely correspond. Our point is simply
that no materially greater amount of mal-observation and lapse of memory
need be assumed in order to explain any of Mr. Eglinton's performances as
conjuring, than has been shown to have actually occurred in the case of Mr.
Davey's sitters. All difficulty in supposing the whole of Mr. Eglinton's so-
called mediumistic performances to he tricfs is thus removed, while at the
.same time we have positiv3 evidence that he does trick sometimes.
Digitized by Google
138 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. [July. 1887.
But" M.A. (Oxon.)" seems to think that it detracts from the value of
Mr. Davey's experiments that they were not perfonned in the presence of
himself or 9ther leading Spiritualists whom he names. To this it seems.
to me sufficient to answer that we have really no ~eason to regard these
persons as experts for the purpose of the present inquiry-that is, as having
sufficient knowl~ge of both avowed conjuring and the performance of
mediums to be able to compare the two. And of •• M.A. (Oxon.)" hhnself we
know that in 1877-five years after his Spiritualistic experiences began-he
~xpressed the opinion that it was absurd to regard the entertainments of Dr.
Lynn and Messrs. Maskelyne and Cooke as mere conjuring; while we have·
no evidence that he has given any attention to conjuring since then.
If, however, "M.A. (Oxon.)" really is an expert in distinguishing<
conjuring performances from mediumistic ones, I would suggest that he has.
now an opportunity of showing it by explaining exactly how, if the accounts.
of Mr. Davey's pcrformances and Mr. Eglinton's were presented to him for-
the first time mixed up and so that he did not know which was which, he
would distinguish the genuine fNlm th~ spurious. If this cannot be done,
does it not behove Spiritualists to leave Mr. Eglinton's evidence as at best
inconclusive, and to seek for better 1-1 am, sir, yours faithfully,
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
P.S.-I may menti0n another point on which I cannot agree with"M. A.
(Oxon.)." He suggests that Mr. Davey should take certain records of Mr.
Eglinton's phenomena. and duplicate them in the pl'esence of the observers.
who originally recorded them; and until this has been done, being unable
to say "what similitude his tricks bear to the genuine thing," he thinks it.
needleBB to diSCUBB the matter further. But apart from the improbability
that Mr. Davey and Mr. EgIinton know all each other's tricks, it seems to--
me evident that for performer B to reproduce the illusions of perfonner A,
under what the investigator, not the performer, supposes to be the same con-
ditions. is not to do the same thing but something indefinitely harder. This
is easy to illustrate. Suppose that the officer spoken of by Mr. Hodgson
at p. 385 of Proceedings, XI., had required from another Indian juggler an
exact repetition of the jumping coin trick as described by him. Is it not·
probable that, after the discuBBion which had taken place, he would have
noticed that the second juggler took the coin out of his band instead of
letting him put it on the ground, and that in consequenee-unleBS his.
Iipriori confidence that the trick must be the same overcame his confidence
in his own observation-he would have said: "No, this won't do; the-
conditions are not the same; with the first juggler I placed the coin on the·
ground myself, and yet it jumped like the others."
MR. R. HODGSON'S CRITICISM OF AN EXPERIMENT IN
PSYCHOGRAPHY.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OJ!' THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-Being at prescnt much and variously occupied, it is only within.
the last few hours that I have become aware of Mr. R. Hodgson's criticism,
in the new number of our Pro~ed'i",gs. of a case adduced by me in a paper-
printed in Proceeding4, Part X. I cannot allow that criticism to go·
Digitized by Google
July, 1887.] JOU1'nctl of Society f01' Psychical Resea1'ch. 139
unimswered, and I must address my reply now to the comparatively limited
public which has access to the Journal, as no opportunity was offered me (in
accordance with a convenient, and now rather frequent practice,) of meeting
Mr. Hodgson's remarks in the same number of the Proceedings.
Mr. Hodgson's first remark (p. 392) upon my account, which he quotes
from Light, is that" the phenomenon was not a simple and isolated one," by
which 1 suppose him to mean that other experiments at the same sitting had
preceded it. That was so; but I am unable to see how this circumstance
affects the "simplicity" of the phenomenon in question, as lIuch, or its
"isolation," considered as a distinct experiment. Mr. Hodgson probably
means that the earlier use of slates might have afforded opportunities for
preparation or confusion. And no doubt it might, but only on tlle
supposition that my testimony fails to show that such preparation could not
have been available, and thai such confusion did not exist.
The next remarks, that the •• phenomenon was not suggested," or
previously prepared for by me, that the slates were Eglinton's, and that a
pile of his slates were on the table, are all correct. It was expressly on these
very accounts, and just because the case did not contain the additional
elements of cogency so often found in evidence of psychography, that I
selected it in my paper-" On the Possibilities of Mal-Observation "--
as typically illustrative of "the extent of the claim I make for average
powers of observation as against the possibilities of conjuring." (Proceedinys.
Part X., p. 87.) My contention was that average powers of observation can
dispense with extra-precautionary conditions; it was not my object to
adduce what is commonly regarded as the "best" evidence, but to draw the
line of sufficiency. I do not object to Mr. Hodgson reminding his readers of
these circumstances of the experiment, but I also wish to remind thelll that
these circumstances belong to the statement of the isslle, and not to its
determination.
Mr. Hodgson adds :-" Mr. Massey's attention, moreover, seems to have
been partly given to the temperature of Eglinton's hand." Certainly, when
the change of temperature was observable I noticed it. I do not know
whether Mr. S. J. Davey produces changes of his temperature at will, to
distract the attention of his sitters. As I had stated •• I was sure that
success was near when I felt the coldness of the medium's hand," I think
Mr. Hodgson might more reasonably have inferred (as the fact was) that my
attention was stimulated by this expectation. But if he means that I was
watching for this symptom instead of giving my whole attention to the slates
and to Eglinton's behaviour, I can only say that the supposition seems to me
as unwarrantable as it is certainly unfounded. The symptom, when it:.
occurred, always came upon me as a surprise; the fall of temperature when
I was holding the hand having in at least one instance with Eglinton, and
in several with Slade, been so startlingly rapid.as to be in itself phenomenal.
After this preliminary skirmishing, Mr. Hodgson COlUes to closer quarters
with my evidence. And, first, he finds an ambiguity in my statement :-
"Both slates were then, as I carefl·lly assured myself, perfectly clean on
both surfaces," and asks: "When did MI'. Massey a~SUl'e himself, before or
after Eglinton laid one slate upon the other 1" I should have thought it
unmistakably clear from my statement that my examination of the slates.
140 Jou1vnal of Society /01' Psychical Besea1·ch. [July, 1887.
·and the putting of them together by Eglinton, were parts of one uninter-
rupted transsction, and that therefore my examination must have imme-
diately anteceded the act of joining the slates. That was the natural order,
and the other would imply an original neglect to take an obvious and
necessary precaution, and an after-thought and after-action to con'ect it.
There is surely no "ambiguity" in not expressly excluding such a supposition.
A sentence or two later, Mr. Hodgson "think,," that "less violence"
would be done by the natural interpretation of a report in which it would
perhaps occur to very few to find an alternative reading. I appreciate the
circumstances that, in Mr. Hodgson's view apparently, there might have been
less liability to deception as to the state of the slates, if my examination
,had been S1wsequent to their junction by Eglinton; but he makes use of this
inadmissible supposition for the double purpase of suggesting (1) that I may
have faIled in the particulanty of statement I myself describe as essential
(" Who, in this case," he says, "placed the slates together again7 Mr.
Massey or Mr. Eglinton 1 'We must have particularity of statement,''' &c.);
(2) that in one event, in that case, a possible opportunity for substitution
would have arisen. The ambiguity is, I submit, entirely of Mr. Hodgson's
own creation.
I come next to his foot-note (pp. 392-3). Having, in my paper, quoted with
verbal accuracy my report in Light, and Mr. Roden Noel's endorsement of
it, I subsequently, in the same paper, treated this endorsement (" every
word of this account I am able·to endorse") as an adoption by Mr. Noel of
my report, as equally applicable to his own observations as to mine.
Certainly Mr. Noel, who, perhaps I may say, wrote to me (as also in sletter
which has been published in Light) in warm commendation of my paper,
has taken no exception to a passage which, in Mr. Hodgson's opinion, goes
beyond the authority of the original report and endorsement. Indeed, I
cannot see what Mr. Noel's endorsement could have meant at all, if it did
not confirm, from his own observation and memory, every statement which
was obviously of evidential importance, and which did not appear from the
account itself to be exclusively my own. Had Mr. Hodgson insisted that
different witneBBes should give independent accounts, not merely adopting
the report of one, he would have put his objection in a right form, and I
should have been the first to agree with him in principle, although for the
purpose of my argument it was not necessary to show that the other witneBS
had made exactly the same observations as my own, but only that hia
observations were not at all opposed to mine. But Mr. Hodgson's criticism
on the point as it stands, that " there is nothing said in the original report
about Mr. Noel's' carefully assuring' himself," is an attempt to raise a doubt
upon the scope and meaning of Mr. Noel's endorsement which is excluded
on the face of the latter by the terms used.
Mr. Hodgson finds less apparent ambiguity in the expression-" which
we then' carefully assured' ourselves were both clean on both surfaces"-
used in my argumentative recapitulation of the report, than in the expression
of the report itself-" Both slates were then, as I carefully assured myself,
perfectly clean on both surfaces." I confess I can with difficulty imagine
anyone reading these two sentences as fairly admitting different meanings in
Digitized by Google
July,1881.] Journal of Society f<!T Psychical Resea1'ch. 141
regard to the moment of the act of assurance. I do not wish to characterise
any part of Mr. Hodgson's criticism, but I will allow myself to say that it
does not err on the side of liberality, and that the objections we have been
hitherto considering, though perhaps hardly describable as subtle, seem to
require for their apprehension an effort of imagination.
Having brought himself to suppose that I meant the only thing I could
naturally mean, viz.', that my examination of the slates was .. just before"
Eglinton put them together, Mr. Hodgson is of opinion that in that case my
observation may have been deceived, that there might have been one side
of one slate which I never saw, or that another slate might have been
substituted for one of the two slates, both sides of which I did see. As
he rightly adds, I did not state that I took the two slates into my own hands,
and he is also quite right not to suppose me at that time (or, I may add.
now) "an expert in detecting sleight-of-hand manipulations of slates. And
so much," he adds, '" for the amount of mal-observation required."
Mr. Hodgson thus closes the case as to mal-observation with, as we see,
a simple delivery of his opinion as to what was possible consistently with
my statement, or rather, notwithstanding it. He allows my "then" to
mean" just before" the act of joining the slates, though he emphasises the
"before," and I insist on emphasising the "just." The form of my state-
ment admits of no interval of time between my "assuring myself" as to the
state of the slates and the physical act of joining them by Eglinton. I
claim for my careful and deliberate statemont its true and only possible
meaning of actual inlmediacy. {We are now, it will be observed, on the
point of observation, not of memory.) The second of Mr. Hodgson's alterna-
tive suppositions-substitution-either negatives this immediacy, postulating
an unobserved interval, after I had "carefully assured" myself of the condi-
tion of the slates with a view to this very experiment, and before their
junction, or suggests an effect of instantaneO'l.UJ sleight-of.hand, similar to
that which notoriously defies detection in the case of playing eards, coins,
aud other small objects. The first of his suppositions casts doubt on the
sufficiency of my examination of the slates actually used-of which presently.
But first as to substitution, and the" sleight-of-hand " theory of that, 1vith-
out the appreciable interval which I say is excluded by my testimony, whll.t- ,
ever that may be worth on this point. Now I will give up the whole
question, as regards exclusion of conjuring in this particular case, if Mr.
Hodgson will produce any cOlljurer in the world who will effect for me (who
am, as said, no expert) such an unobserved instantaneous substitution of a
slate of the described dimensions, who will, in short, do what the partiCUlar
supposition we are considering suggests to have been done in this case. And
I would pay any, and more than any sum which could reasonably be
demanded for the single performance. (Of cours,e, if Eglinton could do this,
he would be an expert in sleight-of-hand of the very first order, and could
easily find a market for the legitimate exercise of such skill.) I need he~ hardly
point out, that when the question is of sleight-of-hand, properly so-called, it
would be irrelevant to raise the difficulty we hear of in the case of Mr.
Davey, that observation will be more suspicious and keener with an avowed
conjurer than with one the nature of whose powers is regarded as problem-
Digitized by Google
142 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [July, 1887.
atical. Th{' three-card trick does not succeed by virtue of any such doubt
in the spectator's mind, and Dr. Herschell, who I saw the other evening
perform some amazingly clever tricks of this sort at an evening party at Mr.
and Mrs. Eglinton's, explained after each how it was done, leal'llg us just
as much perplexed at the next.
The other sub-alternative of Mr. Hodgson's second suggestion supposes
an interl'al during which substitution was effected, not by what is strictly
and accurately describable as "sleight-of-hand,"butby a dexterity which must
have been conditional on an abeyanceof our observation. I am hypothetically
admitted to have rea.lly examined the four surfaces of the slates presented for
my inspection, and then it issupposed, eontrary to testimony as clear on this
point as I could make it, that these slates were not put together by EglintOn
immediately, but that he was able to produce and substitute for one of them
another slate before my eyes, I being innocently unconscious-it is not yet
a question of. subsequent recollection-of this happening. Those who haye
read my paper on "The Possibilities of Mal-Observation" will, perhaps,
remember that I by no means contended that such a lapse of observation
eould not occur in general, but maintained that the pOBBibility or impossibility
of its occurrence depended entirely on the witness's ignorance or knowledge
that he was at a critical moment of the experiment, and of the particular
danger to be guarded against to exclude deception. Nor should I claim for
quite inexperienced observers, unless exceptionaJIy quick-witted, a full
a.ppreciation of the important momenta for obseITation, without having had
occasion to consider these by the light of earlier experiences, and of the
doubts thus suggested. I cannot, indeed,~mit that on the very earliest
occasions-now 12 years ago-of my own investiga.tion of psychography, I
was not as fully alive to the danger of s11bstitution as I am at this moment, or
that I was ever so illogical as not to have distinctly before my mind the fact,
that if at a given moment it was important I should ascertain slate or slates
to be clean, it was equally important that from that moment onward I should
beware of a surreptitious change, and of every movement which might
facilitate it. The witness must, however, as I also insisted in my paper,
make it clear from his report that he appreciated important possibilities at
the time, and I do not claim for experience any presumptions which would
amount to an exemption from this rule. Mr. Hodgson does not suggest that
my report insufficiently shows this, nor do I see how I could have made it
more evident thatsubstitution and insufficient examination were the dangers
which, at the moments of liability to them, I had especially in view. But
if this is granted, the supposition that I nevertheless failed to observe
(covering compendiously with the word" then") an interval, and an action in
that interval, between my examination of the slates and their jlIDction, is
one to which I will only reply by an appeal to public candour, if not to Mr.
Hodgson's own. .
Next, as to the question of due examination of the slates. Mr. Hodgson
considers that my statement, "both slates were thell, as I earefully assured
myself, perfectly clean on both surfaces," does not sufficiently show that I
may not have been deceil'ed on this point. 1must again remark that it is &
question of my appreciation, at the time, of the inlportance of ascertaining
Digitized by Google
.Tuly,1887.] Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Research. 143
this fact. of whether my testimony sufficiently showed this appreciation,
.and also a sense of the importance of a distinct examination of each surface.
It would, of course, not require an extremely dexterous conjurer to
present one side twice for examination by an observer who wall not awake to
the fact that this was a critical moment at which it might probably be acon-
jurer's object to deceive him. Hence my mention in my report of my " care-
fully" assuring myself, and my particularity of statement as regards "both"
·surfaces of "both" slates. The fact that a slate is free from a great quantity
of writing (such as we afterwards discovered) does not require" careful "
:ascertainment if there is no danger of illusion, against which the form of
my specification all through the sentence was obviously intended to suggest
my precaution. It was just on this account that I contrasted it in my paper
last year with another form of statement by another witness (" We examined
the slates and satisfied ourselves that they were clean ") which I regarded as
insufficiently showing apprehensIOn of this very liability. "You can only
.ascertain that a slate is clean," I said, "by successive examination of both
its surfaces, the evidence of which must, in the reasonable intendment of
the witness's language, exclude all possibility of deceptive manipulation
while the surfaces seemed to be displayed." I certainly cannot undertake,
.at this distance of time, to say positively limo my examination was conducted,
whether by taking the slates in my own hand, or by seeing them turned
.slowly and delibemtely round, one immediately after the other, immediately
before they were put together j but I can most positively say that not only
in 1~84, but 12 years ago, I was just as alive to the possibilities of "hocus-
pocus" in such a case as I am now.* But what is more to the present
purpose, I contend that the language of my report, in its "reasonable
intendment," should sufficiently satisfy a fairly critical reader that this was
a point present to my mind. I repeat my challenge to any conjurer to
. succeed with an observer prepared for the possibility in question at the right
time, and I maintain with undiminished confidence that testimony fairly
raising the inference that the witness was so prepared is testimony which
excludes the possibility of the illusion having been induced, just in propor-
tion to the certainty of the inference from the language used. And this is
the main thing; for, of course, whether I expressed myself on this poin
with sufficient clearness in my report is of quite secondary importance, as
judgment against me herein would at most show me to have been not
perfectly fortunate in my selection ofa case to exemplify my general pOlition
as to the value of observation and testimony. The position itself would
rema.in untouched. And in speaking further on of my "large trust in
human observation," Mr. Hodgson seems to betmy failure to apprehend the
condition by which in my paper I so carefully limited this trust, which
conditions being fulfilled, however, distrust of human observation strikes at
the very root of all human testimony whatever.
Without discussing Mr. Hodgson's note at p. 393 (as to whethf>r I had
* In part proof of this, I may say that during the Slade prosecution in 1876
I expressly recognised the reasonableness of Professor Lankester's Buggpstion
as to possibilities of unobserved slate-reversal. See p. 20 of my preface to the
English edition of Zollner's Tra7l8centient,d Physics.
Digitized by Google
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1887•.
not misplaced my feeling of assurance or the process by which I had a88ured.
myself), the precise meaning of which I confess myself unable to understand,
I pilss to the second division of his criticism, which concerns lapse and
illusion of memory. Somewhere, I think, in the articles of Mr. Hodgson in
the Jourrw}, last autumn, there is a remark that I neglected this question in
my paper. Fortunately my answer to this reproach will cover much of the
present ground. If my critic had not failed, as above rema,rked, to appreciate·
the conditions and limitations under which I maintained observati()'/~ to be
reliable, he could hardly have failed to see that they are the very same condi-
tions wbich guarantee us against lapse or illusion of memory within the period
during which an honest witness would profess to state his impressions from
memory at all. That is to say, particulars which have been antecedently
recognised as of vital importance, and to which, consequently, attenti'm has
been specislly directed, are necesJarily stamped upon memory as the most
evidentially important facts. Now if a report written, we will say (as in my
case), a few hours after the occurrence, emphasizes these particulars by
definite specification (or by any form of words really equivalent to that) : if
the report even, as it were, labours the point (as when I said, " forthwith,
and without any previous dealing "), showing as evidently as language can
the great importance which the witness attached to it at the time of tfflting,
then, I say, criticism of such testimony has only two alternative judgments.
upon it : either that that sense of importance, evident in the report. was
nlentally present at the right time during the occurrence recorded, or that
the witness, if in fact inaccurate, has been consciously .. improving" the
record of memory, and is to that extent a dishonest witness. When Mr.
Hodgson suggests that my own statement, that Eglinton .. forthwith, and
without any previous dealing with them, presented one end of the two slates,
held together by himself at the other end, for me to hold with my left hand,
on which he placed his own right," is a statement insufficient to assure a.
critic of my testimony that I really remembered the immediacy of· the
sequence of acts, I can only say (putting aside any question of my veracity}
that a critic so doubting would fail to appreciate the evidence afforded by
my language of my having attached at the right time great importance to
this very fact of immediacy. And so Mr. Hodgson's further supposition of
an apparent" accident" (such as a pencil dropping out, with the consequent
proceedings on Eglinton's part, &c.) intervening and being forgotten 1:>y me,
is tlqually inconsistent with the sense of the importance of this moment of
the experiment evinced by my testimony. I say this without any regard to
the testimony being my own ; but, in fact, Mr. Hodgson's suppositions
belong to my own earliest mental equipment as an investigator of this
phenomenon. And it would indeed be wonderful if expedients so simple as
that supposed had not long ago been perfectly familiar to my mind as p088i-
bilities, after all my investigation, thinking, reading, and talking-often with
the most acute sceptics-on the subject. This is a remark applicable to
experienced investigators in general. But new comers never credit their
predece880rs with this sort of intelligence, and my patience has often before
been exercised by suggestions which assume my simplicity. No investigator
can do more by his testimollY to exclude such suppositions as those which
Digitized by Google
.July,1887.] Journal of Society f01' Psychical Research. 145
Mr. Hodgson considers "not improbable" in my case, than make the aim
-and direction of his vigilance apparent, raising a necessary inference that any
" trivial incident" or "interruption" crossing the line of that aim and
direction would have excited his instant and jealous attention. He cannot
keep saying this, that, and the other thing did 1Wt occur, excluding them by
.an express process of exhaustion. Mr. Hodgson would not, I presume, deny
that he has approached the consideration of my testimony controversially,
with a foregone conclusion, and finding that careless and inaccurate state-
ments are in fact frequently made on points of evidential imporlance-
which I never doubted-he neglects the criteria by which we are able
to distinguish, in the case of an honest witness, between statements
-originating in genuine and exact memory, and other statements which
mayor may not be thus derived, and which are fairly exposed to adverse
.suppositions.
I must add some words on the trick-slate hypothesis. Mr. Hodgson
.seems to assume that, because I did not add this suggestion to the fraudulent
alternatives mentioned in an appendix to my report, I had not then heard of
trick-slates, or at least was wholly ignorant of their contrivances. This
a.ncient explanation was familiar to me years, probably, before Mr. Hodgson
ever heard of psychography. It was necessarily pressed upon my attention
during the progress of the Slade prosecution, when every conceivable way of
.accounting by fraud for the various psychographic effects was put forward.
Trick-slates were shown to me, others described to me. But, of course, Mr.
Hodgson would say that that is to no purpose, if I did not happen to get hold
of the right one applicable to my case with Eglintoll. When, however, he
suggests, nay, treats it as evident, that this hypothesis was an after-thought
last year, when I came to write my paper for our Society, because I did
not mention it in my report, he seems to forget that I may have considered it
to be already excluded by my examination of the slates. The two alternath'es
I dealt with-substitution and suppressed writing-and which I even
described as the only conceivable alternatives-other than unveracity-"to
-occult agency," were such alternatives as I suppoaed might present themselves
to some minds as consistent with the evidences of my senses. But I rather
believe the truth to be that this explanation had become so unpractical to me by
free and frequent handling of all Mr. Eglinton's visible slates-hisnon-produc-
tion of any other bringing us back again to the point of immediate observation
-and by the notorious facility afforded to all his visitors in this respect, that
my logic did here fail me, and that my hastily-written appendix to the report
-after I had received that back from Mr. Noel and before posting it on to
Light-was not well-considered. But when I was writing my paper last year,
it occurred to me that as I had in fact carried the slate away with me (though
chiefly then with a view to the hypothesis of chemical writing), and that under
a. condition I did distinctly remember, and which was habitll,al with me ill
.such cases (never, that is, to let a slate I intended to take away be for a
moment removed from my own custody or sight), I might as well state that
fact for its additional value as excluding one theory of trick-apparatus. And
whether Mr. Hodgson will credit the statement or not, I do most unhesitat-
ingly declare that my memory was sufficiently clear and definite two yeara
L
Digitized by Go
146 Journal 0/ Society /0'1' P8ychical Research. [July, 1887.
later (and is still) for what I said in my paper on this point,* just as it is at
this moment sufficiently clear and definite as to all essential particulars of that
seance with Slade, twelve years ago, when the fallen chair was picked up and
placed at my side, at my sudden request, and at a distance of five measured
feet with a clear space from Slade, while I was watching that chair and that.
space intently. t And I do, indeed, differ very widely from Mr. Hodgson on the
psychology of memory, if he holds this to be impoSBible, or even in the least
improbable, when a deep impression has been made upon a consciousness
intensely fixed and interested in the evidential details.
Mr. Hodgson's other supposition-that a false flap over the writing'had
been transferred to the other slate during the closure of the two, though of
course not excluded by my custody of the inscribed slate, would not admit of
prior examination of both slates in the hands of an investigator, as the flap
must lie loosely over the writing concealed by it, if it is to fall free into its
fitting in the other slate at the required moment. But as I did not
positively state at the time, and certainly cannot now, that I did examine the
slates in this way, when I " carefully assured" myself that they were clean,
a.nyone who likes to suppose that Eglinton would run the risk of such an
examination being required of slates, one of which had writing concealed bya.
loose flap, may congratulate Mr. Hodgson on the success of his criticism. I
have had to examine it at a length which must appea.r inordinate; but it is
easier to raise objections to evidence of this kind with brevity than to deal
with them succinctly, especially when the principles on which testimony
should be considered come necessarily into question.
But I am quite sensible that behind all apparent criticism lies the
argument1,m baculinum of Mr. S. J. Davey and his reports. I am not dis-
mayed by the alleged inconsistency of the latter with a thesis of my last
year's paper-the reliability of well-discriminated statements of sense-percep-
tion. I do not think that inconsistency has been established, and disinclined
as I am to divert myself from more interesting pursuits to an imcong~aial
inquiry, I may hereafter, circumstances permitting, ask leave to institute in
the Journal, a more curious investigation of Mr. Davey's case than has yet
been undertaken.-Your obedient servant,
C. C. MAsSEY.
* Although it would Mt serve'me now as to some previous details-such as
the mode of Illy examination of the slates. This is no doubt partly owing to
the fact that my carrying away the slate kept alive in my mind the precaution
. which made that act of evidential value.
t This is a piece of evidence-recorded at the time-which has never yet, as
far as I am aware, been dealt with by any critic. But I maintain that for a
Society like OUTS to ignore its bearing upon the not more inexplicable pheno-
menon of psychography, and the evidence for that, when this evidence is largely
prejudiced by allegations against the character of mediuma like Slade and
Eglinton, can be satisfactory to no candid mind. What degree of mal·observa-
tion, of memory-illusion, would Mr. Hodgson or other leading sceptics of our
Society be content to suppose in this case of the chair, looking at the fact
that the report was written from notes taken almost immediately after the
lIitting?
Digitized by Go
July, 1887.) Journal of Society for Psychical Resea?'ch. 147
To the Editcn· of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-Mr. Downing's letters in the March and May numbers of the Jo'ttrnal
induce me to think that a brief record of my experiences in thought-reading
may be of use to those who are investigating the subject. I may state at the
outset that, except on one occasion when I tried figure drawing without any
result, my only experiments have been in naming ca.rds.* IfI had found that
any progress seemed to be made by practice, I should have carried these much
further than I have done; but comparatively few though they have been,
they seem to one to point to certain conclusions which I will proceed to
mention.
In the first place success has almost invariably been in reverse ratio to the
expectation of it, strange to say, thus my most succeBSful attempts have
almost always been the first, when neither I nor my friends, the
different operators, had any idea that the experiments would succeed; and in
the only case of a first essay where I felt confident of success, the operator
being a sister with whom I am particularly en rapport, J failed utterly to
obtain any result. Then it has almost !!.lways happened that on the second
trial, after a successful fint attempt, and when both of us anticipated im-
proved results, we met with almost entire failure. Quite recently, after
frequent fruitleBS experiments with the sister above-mentioned, I ob~ed
some fair results by trying contact, but very unexpectedly as I have never
found contact produce any effect in other cases. To give an idea of what I
call success, I may mention that allowing myself two gueBSes-if I may use a
word which is slightly misleading-at each card, I have named asDlany as
seven right out of a dozen, of which three were named the first guess; and'
have frequently scored about half tha.t number. In fact, if I am successful
at all I usually g~t three or four correct out of 12. Experience has shown me
that it is no use going on after a dozen.
Sitting opposite the operator with my eyes closed, I usually see the card,
as if it were placed at the back of and slightly above my eyes, and this vision,
as a rule, occurs instantly if at an. The method I have adopted is that the
operator cuts the pack and looks at the bottom card, at the same time saying
" Yes" as a signa.l, so that I am able to 'know when the appearance is
instantaneous.
I must, however, admit that on the occasion of leBS successful experiments
I have often failed to "see" any card, and then a vague impression of
several cards is produced, as to which I cannot say whether it is visual or
mental, and then I feel as if I were blindly guessing-quite a different
sensation to the former, even if the result prove correct. In these cases,
waiting a long time--two or three minutes--is no use. Either several cards
suggest themselves, none producing any vivid impression, or the field remains
perfectly blank. This is what has always happened after about a dozen cards
have been selected.
The conclusion I have formed, rightly or wrongly, from the above and
similar facts is that the procells depends not on any effort of will on the side
of either operator or patient, but in the case of the former on the power of
* The writer has sent his results, which are decidedly striking. They will
be presented shortly (it is hoped) in conjnnction with other records.-En.
Digitized by Google
148 JOU1'1tal of Society fm' Psychical Resea1'ch. [July, 1881.
concentrating thought so as to produce a clear image to her mind, and, in the
case of the patient, 011 the power of excluding other thoughts, so as to leave
his mind open to impression. If, therefore, either party be tired, the
experiments fail according to the degree in which she or he is ,-unable to
produce suitable conditions.
It may be of use if I chronicle one or two further incidents. I adopted
the above-mentioned method of selecting a card, as I twice found that when
the operator (a different person on each occasion) had chosen a card from the
pack facing her, I guessed a card which she had momentarily intended to
choose, but had changed her mind. This seems to con1lict very strongly with
Mr. Downing's theory, and only partially to agree with mine; for there was
certainly no concentration of thought on that card, still less any expectation
or intention that I should guess it. The one she did select I neither" saw "
nor thought of at all.
I have tried experiments with 10 ladies and one gentleman, and have
succeeded well with two (one of whom is a sister of mine, but not the one
previously mentioned), and indifferently with two others. Also on one
occasion I guessed two outof three cards when two ladies were acting as joint
operators who had each failed singly. In this case none of us had any
expectation of success, and I was unfortunately unable either to prolong or
repeat the experiment; it is the only instance in which I have had any
result with joint operators.
I have tried on several occasions the r{)le of operator, but without result.
It should, however, be mentioned that the most successful operator I ever
experimented with had been in the habit of acting patient to her brother,
though only guessing the suits, and it was their success which prompted .my
attempt. Miss -- began as patient with me, but failed entirely to .. see"
anything, whereupon we reversed the parts, with great success. In that case,
however, the second experiment proved almost a complete failure !-I am,
yours obediently,
H.G.R.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
The follO'fJ)ing additwlts have been made since the last list(JO'ftr'ltaZ for May):-
JOHNSON (Franklin, D.D.) The New Psychic Studies in their Relation
to Christian Thought........•........•......•..•••.•.•........•..New York, 1887
DICHAS (Albert-Germain) Etude de la Memoire dans ses rapports avec
Ie Sommeil Hypnotique...............•...•.••....•..............Bordeaux, 1886
ENCEPHALE L',Joumal des Maladies Mentales et Nerveuses. Vol. vii.
No. 3...........................................•.....•..•..•..............Paris, 1887
FONTAN (Dr. J.) et SEGARD (Dr. Ch.) Elements de Medecine
Suggestive ......•..........•...•.......•......•....•...•.•.........•.....Paris, 1887
RAMBOSSON (J.) Phenomenes Nerveux, Intellectuels et Moraux, leur
Transmission par Contagion...•....•........•••••.•.....•........•... Paris, 1883
LOMBROSO (Professor Cesare) Studi sull'Ipnotismo ..........•.....Rome, 1886
MORSELLI (professor Enrico) 11 Magnetismo Animale, la Fascinazione
e gli Stati Ipnotici...................... ................................Turin, 1886
Digitized by Google
