{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1louise_nde.html","mytitle":"Louise NDE 2703","mylang":"de"}
          	        Louise NDE 2703  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Louise NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						900  Louise NDE  2703  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I went in to the hospital for a simple operation. During the operation, I could hear the nurse screaming to the doctor that I was losing my blood pressure rapidly. The doctor didn't respond to the nurse right away, and she screamed to him twice more. Finally, he said, 'Get that bed in shock position'. By this time, I was floating out of my body and I could look down and see my body in the bed. The nursing staff and doctor were standing beside the bed. I remember begging God not to let me die as I had two young children and I didn't want to leave them. I remembering saying to God, 'My babies, my babies, please God, my babies need me.' Then I was back in my bed. It was a beautiful experience. It’s funny today because it was so beautiful that if I didn't have children I probably would have continued my journey with no turning back. I am very ill today, and have several health issues and continuous pain – I suffer a lot so I will be looking forward to my next journey home with my Heavenly Father. There are many people waiting to see me there. My children are grown up now. My oldest son is 47 years old, the next son is 44, my daughter is 29, and my youngest son is 28. I've had a good life. I do hope my experience will enlighten whoever reads this story. Remember there is nothing to fear.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 SUMMER  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related       Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening IT WAS THE MOST BEAUTYFUL EXPERIENCE I HAVE EVER GONE THROUGH. I WILL NOT FEAR DIEING AGAIN. BUT I WILL BE SAD TO LEAVE MY FAMILY.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All of the time, I knew everything that was happening.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I was in a state of animation. To clear this up for you: I was just laying on my back, talking to God, begging to stay on earth.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful, unafraid. But I remember telling God I didn't want to leave my babies. I was talking to God, but I didn’t see him.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Yes I have learned not to fear death. I enjoy every day as if it were the last one. I have learned God saved me for a reason. And that reason is that I have the most wonderful children and grandchildren in the world. God gave me a reason to live. I have every reason in the world to want to live, even in spite of the physical pain I now experience. You see, I love life.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know God lives.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know God lives.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a lot of special gifts. I walk much closer with God today. He never gives me more than I can handle. He is a very loving God. I pray for people I don't know who need prayers and he answers those prayers. He always lets me know when these prayers are answered.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I was grateful to return to my body, as ravished as it is today. I'm a strong, old Yankee.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shortly after my NDE, they listened. They thought it was awesome. I do believe it has left an impact on some of the people I have told. I have tried to reassure people not to fear death, as it is a beautiful experience, and there is nothing to fear. Regarding your last question, how? Who knows - you would have to ask them: I'm not a mind reader.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I still live this experience today as if it just happened. I will never forget this experience. It is just as real today as it was the day it happened. I am 100% sure of it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real as I just said in my previous statement.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No. It’s 5:30am and I have been up all night telling you my story. I am getting tired.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None, no. I think you have a very good handle on it yourself. You’re doing a good job. Keep it up.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1louise_nde.html