{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1louis_s_nde_6960.html","mytitle":"Louis S NDE 6960","mylang":"de"}
          	        Louis S NDE 6960  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Louis S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3499 Louis S NDE 6960  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I just had been eating something. It was about 13:30 hrs. We decided to play astronauts by doing a series of physical exercises: 10 very fast flexings, 10 very fast push-ups, then breathing very fast and emptying the lungs at the most, and turning around 20 times. Then we stopped at the spot and stopped breathing at the same time, for as long as possible. 

There I just remember being in a dark tunnel with a light at the end. I see my father, who died 4 years ago and who tells me ‘it's not your hour’. I sense the light as being filled with love and it is taking away all the frustrations of my life. I'm obeying my father and turn around, while being sad to leave him again, and happy having seen him. 

I have to signal here that I had a premonitory dream of his death 72 hours before it happened and had told him so at the time. I woke up stretched out on the tarmac of the covered playground. Nobody seemed to be very anxious about this and it took only a few minutes, as I was told. The incident remained between us, the pupils of our college.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.      Other: Probablement une Syncope  A game of physical exercises done with a group of people.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized that I have to obey my father.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I had the impression that the time was going slower, because the words of my father seemed longer to me. But my classmates reassured me, after my waking, that it didn't take long.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It wasn't changed. I'm farsighted astigmatic.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't notice any difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A dark tunnel a bit like the painting of Hieronymus Bosch ‘but worse’. I believe that the surface was granular, but it is too long ago to remember.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My father died in 1982. I dreamed of his death 72 hours before it happened. I saw him.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A white light that radiated love and a feeling of being understood perfectly: a kind of bliss.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The light made me think that I was at the door to paradise.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was happy to find my father. I was surprised and happy with so much love in the light.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The light gave me a sensation of a limit, a point of no return.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It took me a long time to practice religion. But I have never lost sight of the Love that I felt in the light.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     J'avais personnifié Dieu. Jamais j'aurais pensé que L'Esprit Saint était aussi immense. Mais je continus a croire que Jésus est personnifié. Cela m'a aidé a comprendre le Père, le Fils et l'Esprit Saint.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Par la suite de l'experience, j'ai beaucoup lu de psychiatrie mais tout ce qui se rapproche le plus c'est L'Esprit Saint.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     La Lumière irradit tant d'Amour qu'il m'est impossible de penser autre chose qu'a L'Esprit Saint.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I believe that testimony is important.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Le fait de revoir mon Père m'a persuadé qu'il y avait quelque chose après la Mort. La limite de non retour aussi.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Il s'agit du sentiment et des emotions intenses que la Lumière ffait apparaitre en soi. Comme une Béatitude de Miséricorde.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I had many negative and traumatic experiences after this event. I think that due to all those experiences I evolved towards a life, closer to the Catholic religion.  I'm getting medication for schizophrenia. Moderate changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   The meeting with the light is especially difficult to explain. There are no words that come close.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Mon Père et les émotions des souvenirs que je veux comparer.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        1- The sight of my father raised questions in me about premonitory dreams, even if there is no link between the two. 2- The love emanating of the light, gives me the certainty of the mercy of the Holy Spirit and confirms the value of the resurrection of the Christ.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    6 years ago, I talked about it to my mother. The discussion diverted to premonitory dreams, as she too had some of them. But about the NDE, she tries to avoid the matter as she is very scared of death.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I considered it as real, as I woke up lying on the ground under the covered playground of the college, and a group of children around me confirmed this. Finally I never doubted my father’s love for me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I consider it as an exceptional phenomenon, which is nevertheless widespread over the planet. I'm happy that there are so many people that have had this experience. This is making an invisible bond between us. I'm still carried by the joy of having seen my father. I'm proud to be able to pray the Love of God with another picture in mind, rather than those coming from the imagination of artists.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I sensed the light furtively on my belly one evening. But there, I was feeling well physically.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The fact that I met my father persuaded me that there is something after death. So did the limit of no return. The light radiated so much love that it is impossible for me, to think otherwise than at the Holy Spirit. It is the feelings and the emotions that the light is creating in you, which emanates love. Like a bliss of divine mercy. Before, I personified God. Never had I thought that the Holy Spirit was so immense. I continue to believe that Jesus is personified. This helped me to understand the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. My father, and the emotions of the memories, is what I want to compare.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       When will there be a scientific book dealing with the subject?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1louis_s_nde_6960.html