{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1louise_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Louise R  NDE 8146","mylang":"de"}
          	        Louise R  NDE 8146  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Louise R  NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4246 Louise R  NDE 8146  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was age 20 at the time. I went out with friends to a bar. I wasn't drinking any alcohol. I didn't have my driving license. I was going out with a girl who was drinking a lot. When she drinks, she becomes aggressive. A friend of ours got a phone call from his little handicapped brother who had been invited, for the first time, out for an evening. Over there, things went badly for the brother because people were making fun of him. So my friend, girlfriend and I went to go get him. 
 
 My girlfriend was very aggressive in the car. She said that she wanted to kill those people who made fun of him. So I asked her several times to let me out of the car. The music was loud. She either didn't hear me or she was blocked. I don't know. I opened the front passenger door of the car; put my right foot on rim of the door, and my blue sandal slipped. My sandal was blue. I was wearing a long white skirt. 
 
 I found myself unconscious on the road; on the other hand, I could see from higher above, where my body was lying on the street. I could see my exact position like it was full daylight, yet it was nighttime. I didn't see the car. I saw a happy childhood memory where I was on a scooter with my sister in the courtyard at my parent's house. After that, I saw the white light. Then I saw blackness and felt pain. I hurt at the level of my left ankle, where the asphalt had seriously scraped my skin. My girlfriend dropped me alone at the emergency services. I wasn't afflicted with anything, except hitting my malleolus at the left ankle; no head trauma at all; nothing else. 
 
 Later on in 2005, I got into my car. I didn't feel good mentally and was tired of seeing my 8-year-old son in front of his computer. Our lack of communication was hurting me and I was unlucky in love. I drove to my former girlfriend's house. I found she had gone to Ireland without telling how to contact her. 
 
 On the way, I was overcome with a suicidal impulse. I was on a less frequented road and thought that if I would kill myself nobody would care. I watched the road and aimed at an oak tree. As I accelerated, I closed my eyes, and then blinked to see if I was still going to hit the tree. 
 
 I found myself unconscious at the steering wheel of my car; but in the meantime, I had some flashes of the past and of future events. I also saw the deceased mother of my present partner who was on a bicycle. I had never seen her before, not even in a photo. I saw my son waiting for me and bent towards the kitchen window. He was not in front of his computer and this was exactly what was happening when I got home three hours later.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1989 and 2005
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Suicide attempt.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death. 

  The first NDE, I fell from a car going 100 km/hour. After stupidly asking the driver to let me out of the car, I opened the door put my foot at the edge of the door rim, and my sandal slipped. I found myself on the ground. The second time, I tried suicide by hitting an oak tree at 100 km/hour. I succeeded and the car was really in bad shape.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.   I think that in order for certain things evolve,  they must be accepted.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I refused to go to the light, I never saw anybody at the end of the tunnel. That's why I refused to go to the light, despite however soft it was.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     There was no notion of time or space in the sense we know it on earth. Everything is relative.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I saw little difference at the ophtalmological level except that in an unconscious state I could see behind me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.  I was listening more than before.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain.     I passed  from the light into blackness before getting back to a conscious state.  I don't know if this would be described as a  tunnel.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes.     On the day I committed suicide, I clearly saw the mother of my present partner. She was on a bicycle close to my home. I only passed her and she said hello and asked me with her eyes to take care of her son.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Abundance

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     We need each other. To have a social life is important.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control.     I saw myself at the age of 4-1/2 on my mothers lap, on the front seat of a car. My father was driving and we were stopped for identity control. Not long ago, I checked with my mother if  this actually happened. My mother confirmed it to me.

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future.     When trying to suicide, I saw my son waiting for me at the kitchen window while I was unconscious. When I arrived, he said to me that he was waiting a long time for me at the window.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   There was nobody at the end of the tunnel. I saw a beautiful light but nobody was there.  It was like a void in the light or in blackness.  I don't see any difference, the void remains a void.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     At the age of 20, I never imagined to see myself from above my body. Before I tried suicide, I never thought that I could foresee my future or see a part of the past from a deceased person who, at the time, never  had a connection with me.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife does not exist     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes.     Medicine has it's limits.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Compassion is sometimes down the road.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I tell myself that science is limited, and somehow that's all the better.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes,   I had been reading a book about NDEs when I was an adolescent.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definately not real.       If I was thinking that lucid dreams were real, this experience would be stupid and I couldn't assume daily life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I can't explain it and this has some charm.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I don't understand the question.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1louise_r_nde.html