{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1louise_b_nde_2684.html","mytitle":"Louise B NDE 2684","mylang":"de"}
          	        Louise B NDE 2684  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Louise B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						890  Louise B NDE  2684  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  The experience that changed my life:

In March 1987, I didn't feel well. My condition deteriorates, I'm hospitalized. I sink into coma. Two weeks elapse and the night when I went out of coma, just before, I see myself above my body. I am overcome by a feeling of fullness. It has such an intensity that I can't manage to describe it. I see myself in the bed, there is a being dressed in white on my right, and he is moving the air with his robe because my body is hot. As for myself above, I don't feel anything. I also see around my bed people who came to see me during those two weeks. I hear what they tell me, I can accurately tell what they wore and where they were around my bed. These are facts I could check with them afterwards. I see all this in a state of peace and serenity. All of a sudden, I realize that I don't see both my daughters. In a split second, I feel myself go back to my body. It is much too small for me. I'm twenty-one and it's as if I were putting kid nightclothes on. It is painful. I wake up from coma and I realize that I am in a place I don't know. Paralyzed, I can't move and barely speak. My sight is blurred. It is hard to come back to this life. I slowly recover and at the end of May I leave the hospital walking. Physically I recovered, but psychologically that's another story.

The experience has been informative for me:

- If I'm here, that's because I have a mission to complete, as any of us has.

- I had to have another child born.

- Work at body level (physiotherapist) for twelve years, so that today, in 2006, I am applying for a job, to work with people grappling with death.

- I do not fear death anymore.

- I know I have a soul.

- I still look for this intensity; I feel it with people at end of life.

- I feel lonely and always will be. I consulted therapists for years and I still do. It's as if I had a foot here and the other one there.

- I am not able to integrate it in daily life. I'm on the way but I do believe that I will never make it totally.

Thanks for reading me, Louise.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 mars 1987  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness      Coma  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   A deep coma, a paralysis. Virus causing encephalitis, meningitis and myelitis.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Total fullness. No human thought. The real peace.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before thinking of my children.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     In that state, time has no importance. But I saw all of them at once, whereas they came at different times.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     A clarity that goes beyond what one sees.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard everything with great clarity.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A being dressed in white was to my right in my bed.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It's as if I had been in the light. I did not see it. I inhabited it. The presence was white, like the light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       That was very intense. I still look for this intensity. It is not human. It is Divine.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Those that occurred during my coma.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholique pratiquante  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't believe in God, I know God exists. I don't believe that I have a soul, I know it.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't believe in God, I know God exists. I don't believe that I have a soul, I know it.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Now I know that I have a soul. That we are all here to learn to love and be loved. Hard to find this intensity again.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My values, my priorities. I had to change my relations.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The intensity, the feelings, the emotions, this is nothing human.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a lot of intuition. I feel things to come; sometime it's hard to experience this. I remotely feel people.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Mainly the state you are in then. Also to see yourself outside of your body. Presence of that being on my right.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I believe I shared a few months afterwards. Well received but I did not feel I was understood. I believe that what I am influences them, but I would like to make them feel my experience so that it is clear for them. I feel close to that state when I am with people at end of life.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know that it is real but I don't think I can manage to make others understand that. It is painful for me not to be able to express this experience as I lived it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even nineteen years after, I consider this is not so positive a gift. There is a reality in that experience that is not human, but we are human. You feel an intensity that you will look for all you life. How to be able to integrate it in daily life?  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       How to be able to integrate it properly. I'm still searching.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1louise_b_nde_2684.html