{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lorraine_i_nde.html","mytitle":"Lorraine I NDE 900","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lorraine I NDE 900  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lorraine I NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						369  Lorraine I NDE  900  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When I left my body, I was several inches above it, and it took me a few moments to understand. I began to slowly rise and then entered the path of light that was coming through the window, which seemed to show an outline of my 'body' and I was worried they may see it. I realized I was dead as I looked down on my body on the bed. I realized that all the experiences of 'Lorraine' were left behind, in her mind, and that I was something separate. I thought about my funeral and how people would react, that my parents would be upset, but that was okay as 'pain' was something that was natural and that they would simply have to live through and accept. These people were my 'earthly' parents. The connection had been left behind.


I rose through the house and above the roofs and I could see into the people's back gardens. (Some time after I returned I had planned to put a note through people's doors to tell them what I had seen of their homes.) I rose higher, had an 'rial view of the surroundings, and imagined a police car turning up to the house to discover my body.


I then entered some other dimension and was greeted by people who I feel were my relatives or at least were absolutely overjoyed to see me and greeted me with overwhelming love. I have a split second recollection of being then surrounded by the most beautiful living light, which breathed and surrounded me with unimaginable love. I was told I had to return and this caused me terrible emotional pain to have to go back to my life and that room again. In order to give me strength, I was shown my future, from the point of return, all through my entire life. It was flashed across the sky and I was living and experiencing every moment of it, right up until my death. There were years and years of terrible pain, I couldn't believe it went on for so long, but slowly it began to lessen and then to level out and then slowly, good feelings and events began to happen and they got better and better until my future was full of wonderful happy experiences, feelings and events. I then found myself back in my body.


I could hear one of the men sounding worried and saying that I could get off the bed. He said it several times until I finally registered that I was back. I felt that I was in hell; I had experienced hell then heaven and then returned to hell again, all in the space of an hour or so. They showed me the door after telling me not to tell anyone but I couldn't believe they even had to ask me. I felt so contaminated and poisoned that I felt I was one of them. I didn't want to live or leave the house, but they showed me the door.


I went home and didn't tell anyone, and in a very short space of time, I lost faith in what I was shown and instead believed that 'God' was cruelly torturing me and that I had done something terrible. We used to say prayers every day in school and I can remember looking at all the other children in the class, remembering how I had been one of them, not really believing that there was really anything beyond, but knowing now that there was, and that they were all in ignorance of this knowledge. I remember looking in the mirror at my face and my body and realizing it was just a shell, and that I was spirit.


Within a space of approximately three months, I had managed to remove all memory of the attack and the NDE from my conscious knowledge.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1980

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Criminal attack    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Not quite sure whether clinical death.  I was suffocating and then found myself out of my bodyI was held against my will by two men in their home. During the attack, I have a vague recollection that something appeared in the room (translucent figure made of light). At the end of the attack, my breathing was obstructed by one of the men and this is when I found myself several inches above my body, looking down on myself and the two men on the bed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As stated above, I was aware that my experiences were left with the body, in the brain, the mind. My consciousness was separate and different. Time, earthly time was inconsequential. Earthly pain also. For example, even the greatest amount of pain on earth was in reality nothing. Life was just a split second, not even that, to what it really is.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Highly conscious and alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   As mentioned above, earthly time was inconsequential. Even the greatest pain i.e. the holocaust was inconsequential due to the infinite nature of time and our meaning on earth.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Can't remember sound or noise.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     During the attack, before I left my body, a have a feeling that a figure appeared in the room. I saw a movement of an arm, and thought they had placed something on the bed. My eyes widened in surprise, the two men were very close to me on the bed and the figure was behind them. The figure was made of light, a golden light and it raised its finger to its lips as if to say to keep quiet about its presence.  When I left my body, I believe people, some of whom could have been relatives, greeted me. They were overjoyed that I was joining them and hoped that I was staying. I can't remember words. Lastly, the light that was communicating with me and which showed me my future: I can't remember words spoken, but we were definitely communicating, perhaps through emotion.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Beautiful doesn't come close to describing it. Imagine those times when sunshine lifts your spirits and how it feels to see it on the water or coming through windows or sunsets and sunrises, or coming through trees, all those beautiful experiences of sunshine. Now multiply this a thousand fold and you may come close to understanding its beauty.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Only in the sense of time being different and obviously that we were spirit and something beyond and separate to our bodies.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     As mentioned, I repressed the experience, but what I have since briefly recalled seems to fit. I have indeed experienced years of excruciating pain and never believed I would be released but at around the age of twenty-six things began to alter and slowly it is being turned around, and this is happening more and more until I am stronger than ever before in my life and with this healing, my faith is getting increasingly stronger.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   As stated, I was told I had to return, felt overwhelming pain at this knowledge and was shown my future to give me strength, I then returned.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Can't give a straightforward answer to that as it is all still in process of unfolding/happening.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   Repressed the experience entirely until a lot older (twenty-one) due to association with the attack. Have only had the briefest of conscious recollection but enough to have a deep significance. Awareness that the knowledge of it is extremely vivid on another level and has a huge continuing impact on my life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I can't really put the feeling into words but I feel I have knowledge and insight about human nature and life due to what I experienced, but nothing I would describe as a particular special gift.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: being there. Worst: returning.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have spoken with a small number of people. One tried to explain it as due to lack of oxygen to the brain, which I didn't appreciate, but others have been open to the experience.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Well, a lot of investment went into describing the experience and then I found that I had to repeat a lot of it again. Perhaps it is best to ask the specific questions first, and then have the box to allow a general account?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lorraine_i_nde.html