{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lorien_b_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Lorien B Possible NDE 5053","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lorien B Possible NDE 5053  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lorien B Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2617 Lorien B Possible NDE 5053  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					For about two weeks I had been feeling a fairly gentle pressure in my head. The feeling I had at the time was that some energy was rising (kundalini?) and that I needed to allow this energy to flow and move. But I was a single mom going to school full time, and I was just beginning to do student/work in the school system. I felt a lot of stress around that time. I was not feeling well one morning, and was feeling a bit disoriented, so I stayed home. One of my neighbors called me and she was really being paranoid, looking up what possible things could be wrong with me, and I started feeling fearful. A short time after that I spoke to a woman who I found out later is a total hypochondriac and I was sort of flooded with more fear, but I thought, well, I'll go to the clinic and get checked out, then call everyone back and say, I'm fine.

Well, I drove myself to the clinic late that morning, (my son was in school) and was told that they didn't have any equipment to check me out properly there in case anything was going on internally. I will leave out tons of details of course, but I ended up getting a cat scan at the hospital, where they told me that I had a huge mass in my brain, and most likely had brain cancer.

Everything about the hospital was totally traumatic, and someday I will have to write more about that. It was nearly unbearable, emotionally, physically. It was truly a nightmare for me, who has not used Western medicine my whole adult life. By that evening, I was no longer making sense, and my memories are very faded.

The next morning I woke up to have a biopsy; I remember not being able to speak clearly but praying and sending blessings to the surgeons. The next time I remember having consciousness, I was with God. I understood myself literally to be in his palms. But everything was just light, and pure love. It was the most beautiful feeling I have ever had in my life. God told me that my soul's purpose was healing, and that I could just do hands on healing. There was some information about just doing it like three times a week. It's kind of funny, like God was saying, don't stress about it, your soul needs to do this, but it doesn't have to be a huge deal. Now, there were no words said, it was just understanding that flowed from God to me. There was no pressure or even encouragement really.  I felt total kindness, wanting me to understand choices that I have made about my life. The golden light seemed to emanate eternally in every direction.

I was in the hospital for another five days, and my entire reality was shifted. I was completely conscious, but unable to communicate clearly. I was able to hear people's voices in a multidimensional way, where I heard all unresolved pain in the frequency of their voices. I had people coming to visit me, but it was painful at first because I was so sensitive to the sounds that they weren't even aware of. I also had some very dramatic out of body experiences during that time that involved elemental kingdoms.

The prognosis was that I had a very rare brain abscess. The neurosurgeon told me that what happened to me was more rare that being struck by lightning twice. Antibiotics were the treatment I received, for six weeks. I was told that the masses would linger potentially indefinitely, and they wanted to monitor me to make sure it wasn't getting worse. The first of what was going to be a series of cat scans over a year showed such improvement that I never had to do another one.

No one knew if I would ever be able to read, write, or speak correctly again, but I was back in college in a few weeks, and finished that semester, and graduated cum laude a year and a half later.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Oct.28, 2008'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' I had just had a biopsy for masses that were seen in my brain on a cat scan.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   With God, no doubt!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       With God, no doubt!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Timeless.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was just golden light. I was in it; I may even have been it. I don't recall any differentiation between myself and the surroundings other than I knew myself clearly in the center of it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Well, God!

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bathed in golden light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete peace, total love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have been a healer since I was nineteen years old, but I had some judgments and misunderstandings that stopped me from being comfortable in that role. This experience clarified the true nature of healing and it is difficult to put into words but it is as if you are in a strong place at all, you have the capacity to bring healing to someone who is feeling weak. Just so utterly simple. There is just the intention and desire to be helpful and healing that's all there is. If you are strong enough to stand, you have healing to give if it is in your desire to do so.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Yes and no. I chose to go back into my regular world, and try not to pay attention to what I was hearing and really take my experience seriously at that time. I was obsessed with finishing school. At this point, it sounds strange, but I wish that I had just dropped out, and done healing work. I have been teaching for the last year, and just quit my job two weeks ago, because I need to follow this path. I feel now that I should have surrendered to the experience more and allowed it to affect my relationships, and habits more. So I'm integrating some of that now.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I understood where I was and what was happening with no explanation. I was totally calm and in total contentment.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My ability to hear wounds and help bring clarification and healing though peoples voices remains. My ability to be a healer without the burden of my ego, agenda, and fears could possibly not have happened any other way.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was able to share this experience with just a few people for the first year or two. I am now just starting to talk about it more easily. Some people get scared.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of NDEs but I hadn't given it a lot of thought.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I think I was able to push forward and heal so remarkably because of the NDE and OBEs that I experienced over the next four days after that. I was strangely compelled to start studying before I was able to even speak correctly, or write or read! I kept my experience with God close to my heart, but I didn't share it, or get overly attached to it, possible because of the inter-dimensional traveling that started to occur in the days after it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     From what I understand I was just taking antibiotics, but I need to confirm that with my doctors from that time, maybe this kind of experience is normal when waking up form a biopsy, I have no idea. There is a part of me, even though it was such an amazing experience that cannot really accept it totally, even though I have perceptions that I did not have previously.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   The last week of classes at the university I started to have some serious problems very similar to what had happened that put me in the hospital. I knew what they had to offer so I just went deep within and listened to how my body needed to move, toning, praying, all of it, and completely healed it, it was about three to four days, but it was completely healed.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lorien_b_possible_nde.html