{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lori_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Lori L NDE 2605","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lori L NDE 2605  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lori L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						845  Lori L NDE  2605  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					 Thursday February 27, 2003

My father was driving to me the doctor because I couldn't breathe. Impatient with his slow driving I asked him to pull over and use his cell phone to dial 911. The ambulance arrived and they began treating me en-route to the hospital, my dad followed the ambulance in his car. I remember the emergency medical technician trying to hand me the nebulizer tube, which I had never used or seen I kept pushing his hand away saying it wouldn't help. Just before losing consciousness, I heard the emergency medical technician remark about my sweatshirt (St. Louis Rams) I was afraid they would cut it like they do on TV.

I was admitted into the hospital, without gaining consciousness, directly to the emergency room. My father told me later that when he arrived at the emergency room, the hospital's Chaplain came out to sit with him. Apparently, this was rather unsettling for him. I had an 'emergency intubation' and was connected to a ventilator in the intensive care unit. My lungs were constricted and wouldn't function normally.

I had only one brief NDE. I was looking at myself, from above, there were no other people around me, I saw the blue ventilator tube in my mouth. That's all! I remember briefly waking to see my daughter and boyfriend at my bedside. I couldn't talk because of the tube but I motioned, or so I thought, for a tablet and pen so I could relate my experience. They staff thought I was trying to remove my IV and restrained my arms. I went back to slumber land.

When they woke me up, five days later, there were no mirrors where I could have seen the equipment and when the nurse removed the tube she was very quick to get it away because I guess it's not a pleasant sight. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 27, 2003  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         severe asthma attack  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was having severe difficulty breathing.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was a very brief experience, I was alert the whole time  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I couldn't hear anything.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was not alarmed about my condition I felt very calm and relaxed  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more certain of God's existence.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more certain of God's existence.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        None.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my boyfriend about is about a week or so after. He was, and still is, very uncomfortable with it. I don't think he was influenced in any way.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   No special knowledge, perhaps from movies.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was a very clear, and quite short, experience. I saw myself connected to machines.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I saw myself in my NDE connected machines, and this was real and clear. I also experienced vivid dreams or hallucinations that were clearly not real. There was nothing similar about them.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lori_l_nde.html