{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lorenza_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Lorenza P NDE 9332","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lorenza P NDE 9332  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lorenza P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5332 Lorenza P NDE 9332  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		                  

Describe the Experience: 

  It was mid evening and the sky was glum with patches of gray clouds. I am walking on interstate 80 looking down at the road thinking to myself, ‘Oh, there is grass growing on the black pavement.’ I lift my head and turn to look behind me. My eyes focus on a big rig that is behind about ten cars that are zooming passed me. As I turn to look ahead and walk nearer to the grass area, I thought, ‘I hope I do not get hit by that big rig.’  I continued to walk as I saw the big rig pass me. I placed the back of my hand onto my forehead, swiping it across, thinking, Phew, I’m so glad he didn’t hit me. In that moment, I saw the big rig pull over onto the shoulder ahead of me. I asked myself, “Why is he stopping?” I saw the door open up. He jumped out of the truck ran towards me. I just stood there, stopped still in my tracks, watching him run my way. Why is he running toward me? It was in this moment that I realized I could see everything around me but I could no longer hear the swooshing of the traffic zooming by. As my eyes focused ahead of me again, the truck driver was still running toward me. Then, I felt compelled to look behind me and turn to look ahead of me again. The truck driver was still running toward me. I remember thinking, He’s running my way, yet he seems so far away. He appeared to be running in slow motion. That’s so bizarre… Again, I got an irresistible desire to look behind me. Dismissing the slow-motion gait of the truck driver, I turned around again. However, this time I noticed something lying on the roadside. I looked ahead of me again. The man was still running my way in slow motion. I turned around again. The yearning to turn around was overwhelming. What is that? I began to walk towards the object laying on the shoulder of the road. As I approached, I began to realize it was a person. I looked down at the body in wonderment. I wonder who it is? I took a closer look. It’s me… I lifted my left hand to eye level, looking at it, asking myself, If that’s me lying there, why am I standing here? I very well cannot be there and here at the same time, can I? How can this be? How can two of me be in the same place at the same time?  

  “This is crazy!” I exclaimed. In this moment, I instinctively entered the full realization that was, in fact, me lying there. In a flash, from the crown of my head to the soles of my feet, a floodgate of overwhelming emotions of horror, terror, sadness, loneliness, hopelessness, and an eerie silence rushed through me. These emotions are one hundred thousand times more intense in the spirit realm than in the physical. I instinctively knew that if I were to take my own life, I would be in my own personal spiritual hell on earth as a lost soul for all eternity. Still looking at myself lying there, I came to the realization that I am spirit. I brought my left palm to my mouth and screamed out, “Oh God…!” Before I could even say, “Help me!” my spirit was cast back into my body, and I screamed in excruciating pain.  

  As I lay on the roadside, screaming in agonizing pain, I could see a man kneeling at my left side, whispering in my ear. Well, I now know, he was speaking loudly, but at the time, it sounded like a whisper to me. He told me that the truck driver, driving an eighteen-wheeler, hit me, but he pulled over up ahead. He further said that he was my witness and I would survive the accident, and that he would be with me through the whole ordeal. I begin to slip into oblivion, and I could hear the man say, “No, don’t leave me! Stay with me! You are not going to die on me. Please stay with me.” In this moment, he sounded so far away. Yet I could hear every word he said. 

  Suddenly, poof, I found myself standing in water just above my knees completely nude and without shame. In pure joy and contentment, I played with the water. I plunged my fingers into the water, splashing it up into the air. The water droplets gently dove down onto my naked body, dressing me with their glisten. Only I was not a naked body… My form was spirit. My spirit looked so soft and smooth, with a glow of white. It was the most beautiful white I had ever seen, with a glisten of silver. As the water droplets sprinkled down onto my lovely spirit, they greeted me with love, joy, and peace. I was so enthralled playing with the water, I did not think to pay attention to my surroundings or where I was. Suddenly, I heard the gentlest male voice I had ever heard. He said, “I want you to look up.” Instinctively, I knew to look up to my right. Oh my! Lo and behold, I saw the most gorgeous face I had ever seen. Immediately, I know I was looking at Jesus Christ. I telepathically said with a smile ablaze, “J e s u s!” And He smiled upon me with the most delightful smile anyone has ever profiled. I got the feeling that He delighted in my recognition of Him as Christ. He had the most gorgeous long wavy golden-brown hair just past His shoulders. His stunning ocean-blue eyes radiated pure love and compassion. His full, groomed beard glistened golden-brownish. He appeared as semi-human form with fair skin, and a white glowing light illuminated all around Him. He gestured with His right arm, placing His hand to His chest, and telepathically said, “I am God (gesturing his hand to His right), this is my assistant (further gesturing his hand to His right), and these are three of my angels.” I briefly wondered who His assistant was. He appeared to be a young man, twenty years of age with bright florescent yellow hair, beautiful brown eyes, and milky white skin that illuminated light. He was wearing the exact white gown Jesus was wearing; the only difference was that Christ’s gown had large bell sleeves and the young man’s had medium-size bells at the sleeves. I intuitively knew they were sitting down, and the length of their gowns reached their ankles and that they were both wearing sandals. The angels were wearing sleeveless white Roman-style v-neck gowns. The tops of the sleeveless sleeves at their shoulders were cinched with a glittering golden tie. They wore the same glittering golden fabric in a thin sash just below their chests. The gowns fell  just below their knees, and they are wearing glistening golden sandals on their feet. Their hair was the most beautiful brown color I had ever seen, and was styled in a bun with the same glitter golden fabric tying their buns at the base.   

  Christ said to me, “I want you to look around you.” I took my gaze to the water I stood in and looked at the vastness of the purest ocean I had ever seen. The whole body of water sparkled like a sea of diamonds. Truly, it was a sea of adoration that welcomed me with pure love, joy, and peace. I looked behind me and saw the flow of a beautiful waterfall. I was puzzled because standing behind the waterfall, fully dressed and in human form, was my co-worker, Ted—the one who wanted a relationship with me. He was smiling ablaze. His hands went up to each side of his head, and he slipped his hands over his hair on both sides. I tilted my head to my right, wondering what he was doing there, but then I immediately dismissed it.  

  I continued to look around. My eyes looked to my left, and I saw the most picturesque colorful plants I had ever seen. Their colors were more vibrant than any on Earth. The leaves on the plants were enormous—the size of full-grown giant Redwood trees.  They, too, saluted me telepathically with love, joy, and peace. It was the most pleasant and enchanting embrace I had ever felt.  

  I heard the gentle, loving voice of Christ again. “Look up.” I fixed my eyes back onto Him, both of us still smiling ablaze. Face-to-face, eye-to-eye, we spoke to each other without words, acknowledging each other in communion of adoration and admiration. He said, “Now I want you to look down.” I looked down to see my lifeless body on the roadside, but it was meaningless. I felt no sense of connection to the body or even to what was happening down there. I was completely detached from that scene. I could see the truck that struck me parked up ahead. I saw California Highway Patrol and a crowd of people. The man was still at my left side, screaming in my ear to come back. Although, I did not hear him, I instinctively knew what he was saying to me. I remember feeling mystified that God wanted me to look down until He said, “You are going to survive this accident. You will go back.” I looked up at Him and said, “No, I do not want to go back. I want to stay here with you.” Then, He brilliantly transformed from semi-human to full-blown Spirit—a glistening, golden sphere. “You have a story to tell. You will say no more, and you will say no less.” And poof! I was cast down. Once again, I was in my body. And once again, I was screaming with unbearable pain. The man at my side gestured to the crowd, instructing them to move away from me; to give me room to breathe. He turned his attention back to me, telling me, “You will not die on me. You will survive this accident. Stay with me. Do not leave me again. Stay with me.”   It is immensely laboring to respond, but I was able to utter but a whisper as he brought his ear to my mouth. I asked, “Did I get hit?” He said, “Yes, he hit you, but he stopped.”  

  I heard the firefighters arrive, and I remember them motioning everyone away from me, but the man at my side never left me. A firewoman was instructed to hold my head. I heard them saying they were going to cut my clothes off, and I begged them not to. The pain was still immense, and I was about to scream out in pain again—until I heard the familiar loving voice. He said, “I want you to look up to the sky.” In that moment, the pain faded into oblivion. I struggled to open my eyes to look up to the sky to see the dreary clouds. As the fireman at my feet began to cut my clothes off, voices faded into the distance and the darkness of the sky began to flicker. Suddenly, poof! The whole sky became as white as snow, then crystal-clear. As if I were watching the upcoming events on a giant projector. I saw my mother giving birth to me, and my father fainting, hitting the floor the moment I slipped out of my mother’s womb and into the doctor’s arms. The next thing I was shown was me as a child at the top of the leaf-filled tree in front of the house I grew up in. I see Papa walking out from the front door, looking for me. He is calling my name. “Lorenza, Lorenza.” I saw myself looking down at him, silently laughing with one hand over my mouth and the other hand leaning on a branch.  

  The next thing I was shown is all of us kids sitting around my mother’s feet, talking and laughing. I instinctively knew He was showing me the happiest times I had with my family. It was at this point I heard the ambulance arrive. This breaks my focus, and in an instant, the scenes in the sky retreated as if a powerful suction obliviated them, and the sky was glum again. The paramedics were preparing to take me away. I begged them not to take me. I said, “I do not want to go with you. I want to stay here. Please do not take me. Let me go back.” I recall the paramedic at my side looking up at another paramedic standing next to him with a puzzled look at my plea. They placed me on a gurney and put me in the ambulance. I began to slip into unconsciousness, and the last thing I heard was, “We’re losing her.”  

  Author: Lorenza Palomino

  Note: There is a whole lot more to share, but I think I will leave my testimony as is at this point for now. There are a grandeur of ways God speaks to us and in my case, it has been through visitations, visions, dreams and OBE's since my NDE. I have written a book in regards to my physical experiences, my NDE and all the other various encounters with holiness. It has not been published, I just recently finished it. Everything that I have posted here is in my unpublished manuscript.  Thank you for the opportunity to share my NDE with you.     

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 22, 2001  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident Illness        Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   As a pedestrian, I was hit by a big rig driving at 65 miles per hour  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  At Heaven's gate, I can see what was happening on Earth around the accident. I could not hear the commotion, but I instinctively knew what the man beside me was saying to me.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In the physical, my mind was constantly racing with meaningless and chaotic stuff! After waking up in the trauma unit from a coma on the third day, my mind felt cleansed and crystal clear.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my spirit first rised, I found myself in a hellish lost soul on Earth realm. When I realized that the lifeless body laying on the roadside was me, I became highly alert that I was dead. The second time my spirit rose, I found myself at Heaven's gate, but when Christ spoke and I found myself face to face with Him, my conciousness of where I am and who I am became crystal clear.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There is no time in Heaven and time on earth was in slow motion.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was dull prior to the NDE. After the NDE, my vision became crystal clear.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was standard prior to my NDE. After my NDE, my hearing became hyper-sensitive.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Christ and Heaven is pure love and light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Christ and Heaven are majestic in all their ways.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At Heaven's gate, pure love, joy and peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     As time went on, Christ taught me and showed me many things about the mysteries of the universe.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     When I returned from Heaven's gate, Christ showed me past events from the time I was born. He used the sky as a projector.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     As time went on, Christ showed me a catastrophic event that would take place on earth.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  Christ did not give me the option to return or stay in Heaven. He simple told me I was returning to earth.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Atheist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer believe in religion. I am a spiritualist.  

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Spiritulist  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Christ appeared to me as I once seen Him in a portrait when I was a teenager. In the portrait, He was beautiful, with golden long brown hair, ocean blue eyes, bloodness, injured less, strong and very much alive. Whereas, as a child attending a Catholic Cathedral, Christ was portrayed as bloody, injured, frail injured and dead as He hanged on the cross wearing the crown of thorns. I used to wonder how a bloody, injured, weak and dead Christ can save my silblings and I from the abuses of our biological dad.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I no longer believe in religion. Through spirituality, I value all of humanity and all life forms. It does not matter what they look like and where they come from. We are all as One in unity and harmony to the royal King of Heaven.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Christ voice is tender full of love and compassion.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God and Heaven is true, this I truly knew.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that Christ is true and Heaven is my home.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I instinctively knew that I am Spirit and that life goes on in Heaven.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I instinctively knew that God is pure love and light.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I no longer believe in religion. I consider to be a spiritualist.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Through the years, I have been shunned by family and friends. To this day, my family keeps their distance and I only have two friends. Well, I have one now. Recently, one friend dropped me like a hot potato because she truly believes that I am the cause of covid being that I live by faith in God for my wellbeing. Therefore, I do not believe in medications, vaccines and masks. In fact, I have not taken medications for anything in years. I learned self-healing for all my owies through the Holy Spirit. He is the one who taught me how to meditate healing and so far, it works like a charm!  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     As a child and into my twenties, I had psychic abilities. However, as I grew older, the psychic part of me became overwhelming because of all the devastation that would appear before my vision. I did not understand it or how to control it so I suppressed it. Since my NDE, I learned to understand and control them and I do write about some of them. However, I do not like to tap into it because the majority of the time, I see devastation everywhere. I also learned to listen to my instinct and my intuition is sharper than before.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, that we are never alone and we are the royal, holy and sinless family of God and Heaven. Love and light is our essence just as God, Christ and the Holy Spirit is. The Trinity holds the universe of all the Sonship in their hearts. Therefore, we are all part of the Trinity. No one is ever left alone and no one is ever left behind. It is inevitable that we all return home.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I returned home from the hospital, I could not stop talking about my experience. I went on a religious journey and every church I walked into and attempted to share my testimony to slammed the doors in my face. They did not believe my me, they thought I had gone bonkers. Finally, after church hopping for some time, I quit. I decided to turn to God for wisdom and understanding of my experience with Him. He inevitably took me on a spiritual journey. This is where my spiritual education commenced in 2003. I have been on a journey with holiness ever since and it will be that way through my duration on earth. He did not slam the door on me and He will never slam the door on any of His children that reachout to Him for help of any kind.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience with Christ was so profound that I knew He is real and that God is my Father and that Heaven is my home. I intuitively knew that is all there is and that I am Spirit in union and harmony with holiness. I knew this the moment I came face to face with Christ. Even though there were doubts when I woke up from the coma, I knew that my doubts were wrong to the core of my soul. The confirmations from God Himself I had received in the trauma unit were all I needed to move forward in seeking out the true meaning behind the realism of my NDE. The moment I returned home from the hospital, I spoke about it and searched. To this day, I still do, but I now go straight to the Source.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My view is the same, 'realism.' Because the Trinity has taught me so much at my willingness to be a happy student. And I would never know anything without their teachings. They work in unison to ensure every soul gets their miracles and what they ask for in a spiritual sense.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Yes, I reproduce the memory of my NDE 24/7.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Not at this time.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I have no ideas or suggestions at this time. However, if anything comes up for improvement, I will certainly let you know. Thank you for your service!            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lorenza_p_nde.html