{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lori_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Lori K NDE 5241","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lori K NDE 5241  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lori K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2745 Lori K NDE 5241  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After the accident occurred, I was trapped under a Toyota Tundra truck. I had watched my left ankle completely turn around and the bones snap. In my mind, I knew it would have to be amputated. The truck had my right foot pinned and my leg was going to break off, so I asked the people that got out of the truck to please lift the truck off me. I would pull my right foot out to save it. They lifted the truck, I pulled my right foot out, and at the same time, I felt my entire pelvis come apart. I could tell I was bleeding out.

I was wearing a pair of shorts with my cell phone in the pocket. I reached in my pocket and got my phone and then I called my fifteen-year-old daughter Hannah. We were both working and she was two miles away on the same road as I. I told her not to be upset, but she needed to come to my location as quickly as she could. I told her an accident had occurred, and I felt like I might be about to pass out. I wanted her to go with me in the ambulance because we were a hundred miles from home. She did not drive, so she would become stranded. Next, I called my husband and tried to tell him that I thought I was dying and I wanted to say goodbye and to thank him for the last thirty-five years of marriage and that I loved him.

By this time, the police had arrived. I asked them to please take care of my daughter and my puppet that I had on my hand that was just out of my reach. I do remember telling him that my driver's license was in my purse in my car, which had been hit. He told me that I probably had a broken neck and to lie still.

The paramedics arrived and saw I was wrapped up in barbed wire, which had wrapped around me from the fence nearby. They were trying to figure out how to transport me - get me untangled and out of there.

I remember seeing my daughter's legs and shoes, running around and around the vehicle. I knew she would be safe. The police would take care of her. I knew then I could just let go. The paramedics had a hard time with the situation. They thought it would be just as fast to take me by ambulance as to air-evacuate me to the hospital. Finally, they got me on a backboard, and, as they were lifting me from the ground, they dropped me. My daughter became so upset; she just lost it. Then they loaded me into the ambulance and transported me to Orlando Regional Medical Center.

I remember the ambulance ride and then suddenly I was out of my body. I didn't need my body anymore. In fact, it looked sad, like an old purse or an old pair of jeans that was falling apart. I thought, 'How sad! It really did a great job for me!' I felt so sentimental - I hated to discard it, leaving it all torn to pieces like that.

It was all very real, more real than anything had ever been to me before, like I was supposed to be like that. I could see the paramedics, the driver, and my daughter from above them. I could feel all the emotions happening to my husband and my other children as they tried to gather themselves to get to where we were a hundred miles away. I couldn't see them, but I could feel what they were going through, and I felt bad that I had caused them to be so sad and upset. I was very aware of what was going on down on Earth.

Then I felt like I was flying fast into the light - it looked like light It was pure Love and Warmth which created the Light. It was like stepping outside of your dark house into a beautiful sunlit day. It shone down on me from Jesus. Jesus was creating this Light from his Pure Love. It was awesome, and with it shining on you, YOU became ALL KNOWING. This KNOWING was vast and more than I can ever explain. With it, knowledge still unfolds for me. 

No pain, No animosity, total pure understanding of everything, everyone and every situation that had occurred in my whole life, as my life played before me. As it did, it seemed to pause at moments in my life that were due to illness and pain. Like when I had rheumatic fever as a child and how I hated the blood draws every day, but became very brave and learned all about blood. I was in labor six times and had an out-of-body experience during the birth of my son Bryan. Then I saw memories of having kidney stones and having my teeth pulled. Then on to my six-year-old son being hit by a car and having two broken legs, and a cranial bleed, and being in a comma. Then when my thirteen-year-old son had a football injury and had to have surgery, with pins sticking out the ends of his toes to keep his bones in place. And when my father-in-law was sick, and we had have his left leg amputated. Looking back on it now, it was like I was shown all the medical incidents that had happened in my life that I could now draw strength from, and had prepared me for this very day.

I was in the presence of Jesus. We seemed to be in a wide-open space, like a beautiful field or garden behind Jesus. I could see all my dead relatives there waiting for me like my father-In-law and my Grandpa Antonio and my Aunt Lillian and my Aunt Ruby and my Aunt Frances and my Great Aunt Stannie and my Uncle Bob. I recognized many more; I knew them all by their spirit, not by their bodies. They were all happy to see me and waiting for me until I was done talking to Jesus, it seemed like they were behind an unseen boundary. In front of me was Jesus and behind him was like a large archway, a gateway, and my dead relatives were there waiting for me. It seemed like I was with Jesus a very long time.

Jesus asked me if I was ready to be there. It felt so awesome to be there, it was so perfect, so home like, so much where I belonged I said, 'I guess I am okay.' It was a beautiful day to die. The Sun was perfect, a nice breeze, not too hot or cold, I had no unfinished business, I was mad at no one and couldn't think of anyone that was mad at me. I remember saying, 'I really have nothing that needs to be said to anyone. They should all know who I am, what I stand for and how I feel for all of them. [Meaning all my family and friends.]' Then I said, 'I thought I would be older when I would pass over. I seem young at fifty-one.' He asked something about was I the age of my Grandmother? I hadn't even realized that she died at fifty-one, before I was born. I said, 'I so much hate to leave my fifteen year old daughter Hannah. I love her so very much. I want to see her grow up, get married, and have children. And I love my husband Steve and all my adult children so very much. I want to go back to Earth, I have a Grandson to be born soon, whom I want to meet, and I still have X-Rays to shoot and Puppet Shows to perform so could I please go back?'

Jesus said I could go back, that I had work now to do. He told me to stay awake, and he would take care and restore everything. My departure seemed fast, like going down one of those grand slides, back into my broken body. As I approached my body, I was totally aware of the Devil and how he was going to fight with me, almost like he was mad, because he knows he doesn't scare me or impress me. I have no fear of Death. Death was easy, fighting to stay alive.  However, it is very hard work, and the Devil would pop in over and over again, trying to derail me. I learned to put on my armor of God's Word every morning before I would start the day so I could continue to defeat the Devil at every turn.

I became so close to Jesus. He took care of everything, even the pain. I was not allowed anything for pain because my potassium levels were critical. The Emergency Room doctors would not let me go to the intensive care unit - they kept me for the night, about seventeen hours, until they could get my potassium levels up enough that I could go to surgery.

This all became very much like a 'Twilight Zone' episode in a Jesus way, if you can imagine. Jesus sent all the people that were sent to lay hands on me. It was awesome. Some of them, I knew their spirits - like, Jesus had shown them to me while I was at the gates of Heaven. I have so many wonderful stories that are part of this. It just keeps on going and going still. I could write many more pages of all that has happened since.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'April 22nd, 2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  I was a pedestrian on a corner where a side walk would be.  A SUV ran a stop sign & hit a Toyota Tundra Truck which took me off the side of the road with it.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Not sure if it would be clinical death or not.  I was severely injured. Double C-2 fracture with a cranial bleed, fractured five lumbar spine, pulverized pelvis, burst bladder, left tibia and fibula fractures, also other fractured ankle bones.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Acute awareness as soon as I left my body. Even today, I am so aware of things that are not for God and the things that are truly for God. Things that others seem to overlook as not important stand out to me and I am, like, in disbelief that others don't notice the way I do. I am now aware that this is, like, left over from the Knowing I had while I was with Jesus. I no longer have the Knowing - you cannot bring the Knowing back with you to Earth, but I do remember having it while I was there. I do have an acute awareness left over from having it. Maybe we really do have it, we just can't tap into it here, and it is one of Jesus' gifts - the KNOWING.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Actually, for years after this event, my time seemed not to be correct. Like, the time there is different, and it affects you even after you come back.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Pure Clarity.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Perfect and Clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Not exactly.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus and all my dead relatives were there waiting for me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The Pure Love creates this Pure Light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Garden open field with the Gateway to HEAVEN

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Awesome Pure Love, Warmth, Understanding, PURE KNOWING and PURE PEACE.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My life played before me as I was being prepared for what I would have to face upon my return to Earth.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Absolutely true Jesus would come to me even later and tell me how it was going to be and it would turn out just like he said.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     My boundary was behind Jesus. I chose to come back to Earth so I did not cross over past the boundary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have a hunger for the Word of God now and want to know more, want to be a Soldier for Christ, and a Light in a Dark Place.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a hunger for the Word of God now and want to know more, want to be a Soldier for Christ, and a Light in a Dark Place.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Absolutely a total KNOWING of everything in the Universe, our world, the Earth, and all the people and animals.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes All changing, all for the better then again, some friends drift away, while others come closer because of it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How awesome - the pure love was like sunlight The knowing I experienced.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had something happen before this, also.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I always believed in Jesus so I was just amazed how he was with me every step of the way. I would be in pain and ask Jesus, 'You died on the cross to take away my pain. Please take it from me now because I cannot handle any more pain.' And the pain would be gone.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it all right away I told all the doctors, some of my nurses. To me, it seems like I am not supposed to share it with everyone. I do share it often, when I get a feeling that I am supposed to tell it, I do.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard people in the hospital where I work say things like this or that patient had a near death experience, but I had never heard any details or specifics personally.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Absolutely real, immediately after I had gone through surgery and came to, I started telling what had happened to me to my family and friends and doctors and nurses.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am here on Earth because Jesus wants me to tell the story to the people who need to hear it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Nothing in my life compares to all this.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I could add a lot more. My experiences have just kept on, like you wouldn't believe. Too much to write out, family trip to Ireland God told me to plan a trip for twenty-five people and I had no money but I planned the trip anyway. God gave me the money then I found the family in Ireland that had been separated from us for a hundred and nine years and we reunited. It just goes on and on and on.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Blessings and Gratitude I am so excited about your work. Thank you for being there, I no longer feel alone - Lori K.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lori_k_nde.html