{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lori_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Lori C NDE 2129","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lori C NDE 2129  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lori C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						567  Lori C NDE  2129  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I was at the time an addict, heroin to be specific. I had gotten a prescription from my family doctor for some pills to help with my withdrawal, I was trying to quit, and I had two little boys and knew that I had to stop. The biggest problem was their dad was an addict also and he could not quit and I knew I would someday have to choose between him and my sons. Well, to get back to the NDE, I guess at some point I took too many of the pills and blacked out, my boyfriend carried me into the emergency room of the local hospital. He said that a dear friend of mine who was a Christian recognized me and said she would pray for me. The doctors told him I was critical and might not pull through. I was transferred to Los Angeles County Hospital because I had no insurance and that is where I returned to my body.

In my NDE state, I was in a void that was total blackness.  My mind was working perfectly. I remember thinking that if this was death it really sucked, because I was totally alone, in silence. I tried to listen for my heartbeat, but heard nothing, tried to hear myself breathe, but heard nothing. I realized that I was not standing or sitting.  I was suspended. I felt no fear.  There was no need to breathe.  It was just so empty, just total nothing.

At some point, I felt a hand in the middle of my back and it seemed to push me forward toward a tiny pinhole of a light. Suddenly, I was being moved at a faster and faster speed towards the light and the closer I got to it the bigger it got. I could hear many voices, like a muffled crowd of people speaking, but could not make out what they were saying. Then in a blink of an eye, I opened my eyes and realized I was in a hospital bed.

Once before this I had, had an out of body experience. It was in 1974 when I gave birth to my second son. He tore me up on his way out and I had bled too much before they discovered it. They had to sew me up with no anesthetic. The nurses were holding me down but the pain was more than I could bear and somehow my soul left my body and I was up in the corner of the room watching what they were doing to me.

I never forgot either of these experiences, although I never really discussed them until maybe ten years ago. Before that, I thought I was different from other people and they would think I was crazy. I have no real fear of death, other than the fact that I hope I don't go back to that void, that scares me. I have kind of figured that the void was some sort of purgatory, a place I could end up in if I had kept doing drugs or overdosed again. I have a sense of needing to do many things, I really cram a lot into a day, to the point of my son saying he cannot keep up with me. In all, the NDE, even though it was not flowers and birds, was a good thing.

When my mom was growing older, she asked me about it a lot. It was a comfort to her and to me to be able to be so open about death and the possibility of something else. I believe that there are a great many things we are capable of doing, I believe that we can leave our bodies; I wish that I knew how to control it. I wish that I knew why some of us have these experiences and some do not.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1977  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         drug overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Drug overdose.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was very aware of where I was and what was going on, or in my case not going on. I knew I was dead, I knew I was not breathing but didn't need too, I knew I was totally alone, and I felt the hand on my back push me forward. I think in everyday life, one becomes complacent and just doesn't pay attention and that was the difference.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Actually I was angry, angry with myself I think for being in that void, I had a sense that it was my fault that I was there. I also was really hoping that that was not all there was to being dead; I think that was answered when I was pushed back into the light, even if I felt totally alone, I was not.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in many things, God, Wicca, goddess, I try to learn from all things. I believe that in some way they are all one. Nature is very big with me; she is the mother of all life.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in many things, God, Wicca, goddess, I try to learn from all things. I believe that in some way they are all one. Nature is very big with me; she is the mother of all life.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I guess you could say I believe in other planes of consciousness. I think that the dead stay with us to some extent, and if we just open ourselves to them, we will know that they are near. I think people look for big things, like ghosts or something, when it is the little things that communicate their presence to us.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At the time it was hard to communicate, I kept it to myself for a very long time. Back in 1977 it was not something you discussed; they would have thought I was crazy.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Actually, the NDE came three years after an out of body experience.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being in a void sucks! Probably not a good idea to commit suicide or die by overdose of drugs. I have always wondered who pushed me back to this side.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many years, ten or more, some thought I was full of crap, but most were interested and wanted to know more. It was of great comfort for my mother in her last years of life and for me to be able to give her that.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real, in fact that was one of the first things I asked myself when I was in the void, I am dead and this is real. There was no doubt in my mind at all.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has never changed, I knew it then and I know it now.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   That's funny, I took LSD, peyote, you name it, none of those ever gave me the experience that I had. Not even close.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to have more answers, I have so many questions.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lori_c_nde.html