{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lori_m_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Lori M NDE-Like 967","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lori M NDE-Like 967  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lori M NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						421  Lori M NDE-Like  967  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

The evening of my NDE, I quite literally crawled to bed. I was so sick and in so much pain that I couldn't lift my own head without great effort. I remember crawling into bed and curling up into the fetal position and sobbing and rocking from the pain, I moaned, 'Why me God? When is this going to be over, how much more can one person take?' Quite a normal litany under the circumstances.


Suddenly the tears stopped, the pain stopped, the confusion stopped. I became clearer headed in that moment than I had ever previously experienced. I KNEW what I had to do. I had to ask for it to be over. Simple. Or so I thought. I now know that nothing is SIMPLE.


I rolled onto my back, closed my eyes, and prayed for it to be over. 'Please God, let me come home.' I began to experience a small amount of fear or separation anxiety, so I immediately began the relaxation exercises I had been taught to help with the pain and anxiety I had experienced for many years.


Just as I felt myself relax, about to enter the alpha state, I felt a heat and a light move up my body. When it got to the top of my head, I felt a great pressure and the feeling of a void, no sound, no light, like being stuck in a vacuum. Suddenly there was a noise like the passing of a speeding train, a whoosh sound and I was moving it seemed upward through a dark colored tunnel filled with lights like stars around it.


With a flash of the most intense white light, I found myself standing before the Source. I hesitate to explain my experience at this point, as it seems to me that that part of an NDE is very individual and personal. I will suffice to say that the Source was a geodesic orb, which emanated all I sensed, felt, etc. and that there were other entities present. I was told to turn and look at what I was leaving and where I was going, in order to make a good decision. In other words, is this what I really wanted, or did I just want the pain to end?


As I turned, I saw the Earth in the distance. My experience lasted six hours in our time, and as such it is impossible to accurately describe everything I experienced. I will say that I saw my future, my past, and was allowed to make my decision from my now, as well as being given an important life message.


My reentry into my body was very painful and I immediately felt that something was very wrong, like I got back in the wrong body or something. I got up slowly from the bed, looked in the mirror, and got scared. I didn't recognize myself immediately. Many others didn't recognize me after the experience, as I underwent some intense physical changes in that short time. During the experience alone I lost two inches in height and twelve pounds as well as more cosmetic changes, hair, complexion etc.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    January 9, 2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness     illness considered life threateningWithin the previous six months I had received eight diagnosis from eight different specialists, most of them auto-immune in nature.  At that time, my physician prescribed marijuana and told me to look elsewhere for my answers, as 'they' could not even begin to explain why I was still alive, much rather how to 'cure' me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Light and energy.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Conscious state to alpha state.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Noises upon leaving the body, whooshing sound only intense.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Suicide is not an option! There are many ways to commit suicide, all with negative consequences, spiritually, physically, mentally. We naturally choose suicide in some form here, the ideal passage will teach us to live and appreciate life. Really important to survive our suicidal human tendencies through to our natural end of physical life. We are here to learn how to survive ourselves, literally.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Resignation and hope.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Christian

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Spirituality

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Complete change of belief system.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   We currently have no words in our experience to adequately describe a 'FEELING' or 'KNOWING'. The feeling that is the most difficult to describe is the pulse of light and feelings of acceptance and drawing that emanated from the 'SOURCE'.  I have heard this referred to as 'unconditional love' but that only takes into account one of the 'feelings' emanating from the Source.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    It is usually when others share with me therefore we both experience affirmation of our experiences and I have found this to be a useful tool in healing.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Wondering if anyone else has experienced extreme physiological changes after their experience.  I continue to increase and decrease my height rapidly, and although it is medically documented, there is no medical explanation for these changes. Sometimes the experience is painful and I can increase or decrease by as much as three and a half inches at a time.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lori_m_ndelike.html