{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 1789","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n44_nov_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N44 November 1887","mylang":"de"}
NO. XLIV.-VOL. IU, NOVEilBER, 1887.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTBNTS.
New Members and Aa80ciates . . . . . . . . . .
Meeting of CouDCll .• •• .. .. .. .. ..
Cbangei of Writing Accompauying Chauges of PelllOll&lity••
Intelligeut Automatism .. .. .. .. .. ..
Correspoudence.. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBER.
GARRY, FRANCIS N. A., St. Mary's Vicarage, Reading.
ASSOCIATES.
DRUMMOND, MISS, Upton Court, Slough.
PAGE
.. 166
.. 166
•• 166
.. 161
.. 168
RoBERTS, RBv. WILLIAM W., Brook Dene, 14, Strawberry Hill Road,
Twickenham, S.W.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 7th of October, the
following Members were present :-Professor H. Sidgwick, Messrs.
Edmund Gurney, F. W. H. Myers, H. Arthur Smith, and J. Herbert
Stack. The chair was taken by Professor Sidgwick.
The Minutes of last Meeting were read and sired as correct.
The Council was informed of the signing 0 the Agreement for
the Rooms at 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi. A resolution W!.l.S
passed approving of the arrangements that had been made, and
adopting the Agreement' on behalf of the Society.
A further Minute was passed authorising the House and Finance
Committee to do what was necessary in the way of furnishing and
fittings. .
The House and Finance Committee was also authorised to let the
three Rooms not required by the Society to a suitable tenant, at a
moderate rent.
One new Member and two new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. .
Cash Accounts in the usual form were presented for the months of
July, August, and September.
It was agreed that the next Meeting of the Council should be on
Friday, the 4th of November.
If
Digitized by Google
166 J~ of Society for Psychical ReSearch. [Nov.,l881.
CHANGES OF WRITING ACOOMPANYING CHANGES OF
PERSONALITY.
The following is a communication addreaaed by ProfeSlor C. Richet to
Mr. Myers, in February, 1886 :-
. Puiaque vous vous occupez si ingtSnieusement de l'tSoriture automatique,
je voudrais a. l'appui de votre opinion apporter quelques faits qui peut-~tre
vous inMresseront.
Vons.savez qu~il y a trois ana environ, j'ai pu faire sur les ohangements
de personnaliM l'exptSrience suivante, a. peu pres nouvelle. Un individu
hypnotisable peut, pendant qu'il est dans cet tStat, subir des influences qui
modifient III pel'8OnnalittS. Ou lui dit, "Vous ~tes un vieillard, une petite
fille, un gtSntSral, un pritre, un avare, un malade," et il Be oroit alors trans-
formtS en vieillard, ou en pritre, ou en avare, ou en malade. La transforma-
tion est tStonnante; tout Be confirme dana lui a. oette nouvelle personnaliM-
Ie langage, les gestes, les gollts, les attitudes; et oe ohangement rapide,
subit, oomplet, est un des pIns onrieux spectacles qu'on puiaae observer.
ROOemment, avec deux de nos confreres de Ia SooitSM de Psyohologie,
MM. Ferrari et HtSricourt, nons avons reptSM oette exptSrience, et nons
avons vu que l'tSoritnre, elle auaai subit des transformations ~Mes, qui
IOnt surprenantes.
n s'agit de deux pel'8Onnes-une femme de quarante ana que s'appellera
A, et un jeune homme de vingt ana que j'appellerai B. C'est a. peine s'il est
b880in de les mettre en tStat d'hypnotisme. Une suggestion nettement
formuMe, et quelques passes rapides determinent Ie ehangement voulu. n
va sans dire que tout sOUP90n de simulation doit litre 00arM•
.A l'tStat normall'tSoritnre de A est extrimement penoMe, o'est une grande
tSoriture (oar A est tr6S myope), reguli~re, peu tSMgante. Je lui dis alors,
"Vons etes NaPoMon. n s'agit d'envoyer un ordre a. Grouohy, pour
qu'il Be hAte d'arnver sur Ie champ de bataille de Waterloo." Alorsla :figure
de A se transforme ; ses traits prennent une energie extraordinaire, et elle
tScrit d'une grande tScriture, pencMe en lena inverse, qui Be reaaemble en rien a.
son tSoriture normale; auouna lettre n'est faite de Ia mllme maniere que
precMemment, tous les traits sont difftSrents; o'est un grift'onnage diffieile-
ment lisible, aveJ des traits tSpais, tScrastSs, comme ceux que les graphologues
attribuent aux volonMs fortes, tandis que son tSoriture normale est :filiforme
ane des traits :fins et ttSnus.*
Je lui dis encore, "Vous etas une petite fille, vous meme,)elle que vous
tStiez a. dix ans;" alors elle tSerit comme un enfant, en s'appliquant beaucoup,
en moulant toutes ses letties avec soin: mais, ce qu'il y a de tres eurieux,
o'est que eette tSoriture ressemble a. celIe qu'elle a actuellement, avec cette
di1Mrenoe, que o'est oelle d'un enfant, tandis que la sienne est oelle d'une
femme. .
A l'tStat normal l'tSoriture de Best aaaez grande aussi, pencMe, avec
quelques :fioritnres; mais quand il a une personnaliM nouvelle, son tSoritnre
• Si vousle dtSsirez, je vous enverrai quelques sptSoimens reproduits par la
photographie, et grav~8, afin que vous puiaaiez juger de 1a di1l6rence. et en f&ire
Juger leslecteurs.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 167
est toute changee. Je lui dis, "Vous Ates Napoleon," et son ecriture
devient enorme, maBBive, depourvue de toutes fioritures. Ainai que A,
loraque elle est tranaformee en Napo16on, il cBBBe pluBieurs plumes en
ecrivant, tellement il appuie sur Ie papier.
Si je lui dis, "Vous Ates Harpagon," il prend alors une petite ecriture
seche; ecrivant sur Ie bord du papier, cherchant IL economiserI'ecriture ainai
que Ie papier sur Jequel il ecrit, ainai que l'avare mAme. On peut observer
qu'il ignorait tout IL fait que les graphologues avaient attribue preciseme~t
ces caractbres ILl'ecriture des avares.
Si je lui dis, "Vous ~tes un vieillard," son ecriture devient tremb16e,
hBsitante; les lettres BOnt incompletement formees ; personne ne peut s'y
tromper, c'est une ecriture de vieillard.
D'autres nonibreUBes experiences, qu'il serait trop long de raconter, m'ont
donne des resultats pareilB. Eh bien, ne vous semble-t-il que ces experi-
ences, aBBurement tres simIfies, component une conclusion interessante at
importante 1 Au lieu de chercher une puissance exterieure, une intelligence
etraugere ILl'intelligence humaine, n'est-il pas plus rationel d'admettre qu'il
s'agit lIl. simplement d'un incarnation nouvelle de notre intelligence propre.
L'esprit de l'homme est certainement plus vaste qu'on se l'imagine. II a des
profondeurs, des deB30tul qu'on ne soupQOnne pas. Son etude nous reserve
des surprises inouies, et c'est presquealler dans l'inconnu que d'etudier I'lI.me
humaine. Peut-Atre trouvera-t..on cette methode terre IL terre, mais, pour
ma part, je suis un peu comme vous, et je prefere n'adapter l'hypothese
d'une intelligence exterieure que quand on ne peut absolument"pas expliqu6r
un phenomene par l'intelligence humaine.
CORRECTION.
In Prof. Richet's account of BOme experiments in producing "Sommoil
a. Distance," published in the October Jotwnal, some misprints have to be
corrected. In the list on p. 150, "Ie SUcc8S" once, and" un suoces" three
times, should be replaced by "insuoces."
INTELLIGEN'l' AUTOMATISM.
From Miss Power, 19, Spring-street, Paddington.
May, 1887.
In 1883 I was asked to try writing by pIanchette, with a young lady. I
believe I prooured a new planchette for her, but that I cannot say for
certain. I know the planchette we used was a new one. After dinner we
were in the drawing-room, and Mrs. --, mother of the young lady,
was sitting some little di.tance off, and I think her two brothers dropped in
from the dining-room whilst we had our hands on the instrument, but were
net near us, or in any way assisting. I was only willing to use planchette
for the satisfaction of the young lady, and would not allow any but a trivial
question to be put to it, and proposed that we should ask" whetherit would
be fine to-morrow," to-morrow being Sunday. I forget whether the instru-
ment ran about at all, but when we lifted it up the writing faced me, and I
N 2
Digitized by Google
168 Journal of Society for Psychical .Research. [Nov., 1887.
remember being surprised to see the word" Arthur," very clearly, which I
pronounced aloud, and remarked in a vexed tone, quite aloud, that it waa a
ridiculous thing to be told .. Arthur" if we aaked a question about the
weather. I was at once motioned to silence by my fellow-operator, who
could not be induced to touch the planchette again, and looked uneaaily in
the direction of her mother.
On my retiring with her to put on my wraps before leaving the house,
she confided to me that my distinct pronunciation of the word Arthur waa
very unfortunate (or rather that it should have been written), for Arthur
waa a forbidden admirer of this lady's, and she had a rendezvous with him at
church the next day, if fine. I believe that no impreuion waa made on the
mamma, and that it waa fine the next day, or as plancllette observed,
summarising, it waa " Arthur."
H. POWBit.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SocmTY FOR PSYCHIOAL RBnAROH.
SIR,-Though I occupied so much of your space last month, you will, I
am sure, allow me room for a short reply to your notes on my letter.
I mistook, it seems, one Mr. Lewis for another, and carelessly wrote
" Spiritual" for" Spiritualistic," and of course I ought not to have done so,
though the mistl\kes do not to any appreciable extent affect the substance of
what I wrote. I supposed, and perhaps not unnaturally, that Mr. Lewis
must have been more than an ordinary observer, since his evidence
was given in your Jounl4l as a set off to that of hundreds of ordinary
observers on the other side. And I think it is probable that the mistake led
me to attach more importance to his letter than I should have done if I had
not made it.
However, the Mr. Lewis who I supposed had written the letter and whom
I spoke of aa a "profeuional" conjurer (it seems incorrectly), is at least a
conjurer of some BOrt, and adds" prof88Sor" to his pseudonym of Hoffman.
He has also written several books on conjuring and magic, and may therefore
be looked upon as at leaat a "clever conjurer," if not a prof88Sional one.
Mr. Davey has communicated to him alao "the detailB of his methods," and
therefore my proposal that he should perform Mr. Davey's" tricks," not
before select witncues but in public, may fairly remain unchanged.
I omitted what you call •• the essential clause" in that sentence of y,)urs
which I quoted, or "misquoted," as you say, viz., "so far aa professional
mediumship is concerned"; and I did so simply because it seemed to me of
no importance whatever to the point which I wished to insist on. The point
was that, even though it could be proved that Eglinton did his wonders by
trickery, it would not follow that young girlB and uneducated women did
their wonders by trickery too; and it will not matter in the leaat to the
argument whether those females be professional or non-professional.
As to young girl mediums, my evidence is what baa been before the
public for years. Mrs. Jencken waa a writing medium when she waa quite
a girl, and sometimes too in a language of which she herself knew nothing.
Then, is not Mr. Theobald's maid servant the medium in whose presence
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1887.] Jowrnal of Society fen- Psychical .Re8earch. 169
writing is done in all sorta of places, approachable and unapproachable by
human fingers 1 These and many similar caaea have been recorded in scores
of publications and are believed by thousands, lOme 88y by millions, and as
long as this is 80, I cannot see what you would gain even if you succeeded in
showing Eglinton to be a mere impostor.
But perhaps I may al80 remind you that you will have to account for
more than his alate tricks before you have done BO. If we are to believe
human testimony at all, scores of persons have seen and conversed with their
deceased relations and friends in his presence. Was this done by trickery
too 1 If so, then Mr. Eglinton is undoubtedly the most wonderful man of
the age, and what motive he can possibly have for palming the feats of his
own unexampled cleverneaa on unseen intelligences passes my power to
imagine. You might as well argue, and indeed with far more show of reaaon,
that BOrne unprincipled knave wrote the plays of OthtlJ,o, J'IIlit1.3 Quar, King
Lear, Hamlet, &c., and then heartleBBly palmed them on an innocent and
unoffending person called William Shakespeare.-I am,10urobedient servant,
GEORGE HARPUR.
[Mr. Harpur still seemB to be in BOme confusion about ProfeBBor Carvill
Lewis. That gentleman has never written anything in the JoornaJ" and
if Mr. Harpur will look at his "Account of some 8O-called Spiritualistic
Seances" in the Proceedings, he will preceive that it was not published
because Profes80r Lewis speaks with any special authority, but simply
because he succeeded in detecting Eglinton in trickery.
It is disappointing to find that Mr. Harpur's previous reference to
"girls of 14" who "can write in locked slates answers to questions
which they have never heard or scen and in languages which they don't
understand," reduces itself to an allusion to the published evidence about
Mrs. J encken and Mr. Theobald's servant, who have neither of them,
. 80 far as I am aware, written in locked slates at the age of 14 or
since. It would obviously take too long to diacuBB the evidence for these
two mediums here, and I will therefore only say that it appears to me to
be inconclusive.
If Mr. Harpur studies American Spiritualistic literature, he will find
that Eglinton's materialisation seances are not 80 unique as he seemB to
think. The evidence for them is much the same as that for the
materialiaations of some detected impostors in that country-see, for
instance, accounts of recent exposures of Mrs. Ross and Mrs. Wells, of
which accounts may be found in the Religio-Phil080phical JO'I.I/r'IW.Z for
February, March, and April of this year. That Mr. Eglinton, too, has
been detected in palpable trickery ill materialisations is well known to
readers of our Journal (see Journal, Vol. II., pp. 282-284). Supposed
recognition of departed relatives and friends in a so-called materialised
spirit is by no means always a satisfactory test of its genuineneBB.
As an instance of this, I may refer to Colonel Bundy's account of
how a certain Mrs. H.; sitting not more than 18 inches from the
curtain, recognised as her mother-in-law what was to Colonel Bundy's
eyes the unmistakable maaculine and moustached face of the medium
(see Religio-Phil08ophical Journal, for September 9th, 1882).
Digitized by Google
170 JO'lJ/1"¥ULl of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1887.
Mr. Harpur's BOmewhat singular explanation as to how he camo to
misquote what I Baid in the Proceeding. seems to show that he is still
under the impression that my object was to make out a case against
Spiritualism. I can only repeat that my object in calling attention to
.spurious phenomena is simply to purge the evidence brought forward for
Spiritualism, as far as may be, of all that depends on fraud and
imposture.-ED.]
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PsYC!UCAL RESEARCH.
DEAR SIR,-I remember the visit of Messrs. Witherby and Fry at the
rooms of the Spiritual Lyceam (not Alliance, as stated by Mr. Witherby),
and the chief topics of our conversation. As far as my recollection goes,
the statements which Mr. Witherbyalltributes to me in his letter, are 1ler!/
nearly those I made that evening, He· baa, however, twisted them a little
out of their original shape to suit his fancies as a sceptic. I have no means,
now, to controv:ert or dispute the accuracy of his allegations. After such
a .considerable lapse of time (BOme four years), and in the absence of any
notes or written accounts for reference, I cannot recall in every detail what
was actually Baid; nor disprove what I have been charged with having
said on that occasion. I have not the slightest doubt as to Mr. Witherby's
honesty of purpose and do not insinuate that he would make a single
statement he knew to be untrue; but I must nevertheless point out to
Mr. Witherby that whereas he was dealing-and as a novice-with a
subject in itself full of confusion and confusing terms, it is perhaps a
little hazardous on his part to depend for material for his letter upon his
memory alone.
Mr. Witherby is certainly wrong when he writes that I made the
assertion concerning the gradual disappearance of the drapery as being .
an experiment or oxperience of my own. I gave it as an example
quoted in several books I had read on the subject; which is a very
different thing. I may have spoken of analogous cases of my personal
experience, because I had seen its gradual formation; but the particular
case he mentions in his letter was a citation from a book and nothing
more. In fact, I do not like to be made responsible for what I never Baid,
and can only answer for what I wrote in Light 'in several articles which bear
my signature. In the number for March 21st, 1885, p. 140, the following
statement occurs: "The gradual disappearance may be due to other less
miraculous causes. . • . . The samples of spirit drapery I have
enmined did not differ from ordinary muslin or calico sold at the linen-
draper's shop "-and to this I still adhere.
But I will first deal with what I take to be a cardinal point in Mr.
Witherby's letter, viz., his observation that my opinions (with regard to the
reality of mediumistic phenomena) have undergone BOme modification.
I fancy this must have been evident from the remarks I made in my letter
which appeared in the June number of the Jowrnal. But my objections
were not directed against Spiritualism in its philosophical or metaphysical
aspects, but against its pretensions as a science based upon demonstrable
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Besea;rch. 171
facts. And my contention is still that, if mediuDlB were not professional,
that is, dependent upon their mediumship for a living, and that if the
occasional genuine manifestations were recorded for what they were worth,
Spiritualism "-would still be entitled to claim spiritual cause for some of
its phenomena. Mr. Witherby hints that I still believe in the occasional
occurrence of genuine cases and suggests that I should publish them. I
fail to see what good could ensue from bringing forward any apparently
genuine case. I may be personally convinced of the reality of a certain
phenomenon witnessed by other investigators or by myself. Upon what
grounds, may I ask, can I expect to be believed when, in arguing 'the
probability of its reality, I feel constrained to admit that the medium in
whose presence my case occurred had been previously or subsequently
detected in the production of spurious phenomena 1 Under such ;regrettable
circumstances I feel somewhat diffident as to my ability to furnish your
readers with a single case that could withstand even the mildest form of
scientific criticism. And hence, 1 hope you will excuse the conciaeneaa of
my reply to .the different questions raised in Mr. Witherby's letter. If
you will grant me the neceaaary space to deal more elaborately with the
subject of professional mediumship, I will devote a whole chapter to each
separate question.
All I can state now is that in my present opinion the John King of which
I spoke, is either' a phantasy created by the medium'. 80mnambulic
consciousness (as suggested by Dr. von Hartmann), or the medium under
.. control" of a disincarnated but intelligent being-" spirit "-the medium
being influenced to act unconsciously the part of that "spirit." How far in
such a case the " form" represents the " spirit," or how little of
the medium remains in it, I cannot now determine. I hope' to recur to
that hypothesis on a future occasion.
The names and titles of ilMnce-room spirits Buch as John King, or
Charlie, or the Prince Imperial, are, I believe, creations of the medium's
somnambulic phantasy or expectations. But I must observe that under the
present conditions of investigation it is impossible to discriminate between
a genuine 80mnambulic case and a fraud. I imagine ~. Witherby has not
given sufficient attention to the theories propounded by Dr. Eduard
von Hartmann.
The life-history of sMnce-room spirits,and the various kinds ofinformation
given by them, I no longer regard in a serious sense, not even in those
cases in which I assume the medium to have been actually in a 80mnambulic
state j and do not now believe in the veracity of any statement of quasi-
materi1llised spirits and professional mediums alike. The drawing to which
Mr. Witherby refers represents, to the best of my present knowledge, a
portrait of the medium, slightly transformed, in his somnambulic trance.
The spirit of the Dutchman was, I am now almos~ certa.in, a mere fancy
of my own, a fancy, the result of undetected imposture. But here again Mr.
Witherby makes a mistake in his allegations, for I did not tell him that it
(the spirit) used to visit me while I was at work. I said the voice told me it
was that of a .. IIpirit" present (at the s~ce) who knew me in earth-life and
did often visit me at my own rooms. I ought to have added, unaware to my-
self, because it (he) could not manifest without the medium. As regards the
Digitized by Google
172 JQ'/J/¥"YW,l of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1881.
temptation by that spirit *0 make me drink, I must refer lie> my explanationin
aletterta yourself, in which I ga~e you a narrative of what statemgntsI made
to the before-named gentlemen. I still maintain that, as I explained to you,
persons, especially sensitives, in the habit of frequenting ~eances with
physical mediums, are, at the time, and for a short period after, (half an
hour or so) to a certain degree under hypnotic influence, a condition not
unlike the alert state in the mesmeric subject. I will refer to this on a
future occasion.
In the spirit of the little child (which I said stood at my side and not
"sat on my knee ") I have no longer any faith, because Thave, on more than
one occasion, detected the medium's daughter performingthe part of a spirit-
child_
I wish it to be well understood, bV Mr. Witherby in particular, and
Spiritualists in general, that although I have still faith in many of the
phenomena called Spiritualistic, I have been must cruelly deceived by
physical mediums and their confederates. Hence, I make no apology for
having changed my opinions. Nor do I, on the other hand, beg Mi'.
Witherby's pardon for the admission that I still believe in the spiritual ongm
of some of the phenomena. The idols are not all broken. Metaphorically
speaking, I should say they merely want a fresh coat of paint of a leu
brilliant hue. But no matter in what modest garb 1 may now offer them to
Mr. Witherby for acceptation, he will, I am afraid, not look at them. He
will not be contented nntil he sees me smash the things into atoms and
scatter these atoms before the winds. May be that further disillusionment
neceSBitates the application of. a still duller coat of paint. But until it be
demonstrsted by incontrovertible proof that a whole host of witneSBes to
these facts, including myself, have been the victims of delusion, I shall keel)
my idols for what I think them to be worth and still believe that there is a
nucleus of solid facts behind the mysteries of the ~ance-room.
I must conclude by calling Mr. Witherby's attention to the fact that at
the time he and his friend interviewed me I had not personally met with
suspicious conduct Dn the part of mediums and had not discovered premedi-
tated frauds. The information I gave them was in perfect harmony with my
convictions. I must also mention that I believtl that I informed my visitors
of the fact that, prior to my investigations, I had personally experienced such
as yet but partly explained mysteries as clairvoyance, and other preter-
normal perceptions ; that the .. apparition" of my favourite child at the
moment of his death was the chief cause of my meditations on the destiny of
man; and that the books I consulted on this subject further induced me to
search more direct information from the Spiritualists.
I did not approach the subject in the mood of a miracle-hunter, nor as an
unprejudiced sceptic hoping to be converted, far leu as an antagonist deter-
mined to expose itB fallacies, but as a searcher after truth. Nor did I depend
entirely upon my own powers of judgment and observation but looked for
guidance and instruction from what is considered to be the best literatul'e on
Spiritualism; and the arguments and theories propounded by the authors of
this literature were in fall ace'Jrd with my notions; they seemed to explain
my personal experience in every way, and hence I believed in the truth of
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 173
the whole of these phenomena. How could I be expected to think otherwise 1
I had never read or heard a single. serious argument against their reality.
With implicit faith in mediums-for the suspicion that a person could be
80 debased as to deceive a fellow creature in his holiest beliefs and noblest
aspirations, did not for a moment enter my mind-who can blame me for
accepting as true that which appeared to be true 1 Not that I accuse the
authors and defenders of Modern Spiritualism of having wilfully misre-
presented facts. My presentcontention is that they have, like myself, trusted
too much in the bona :fides of their mediums, and have given as examples
a good many cases which were, though real to them, the mere work of
deception. If these authors taught me much of what is true, they uncon-
sciously led me to accept also much of what is false.
And I must here remark that, after discovering direct fraud on the part
of mediums, I did not fail to inform those most interested in the ma.tter.
.My first experience with a medium (then very much in favour with
Spiritualists) included a series of exceedingly doubtful manifestations.
I.expressed my opinion as to their apparent spuriousness, in a paper which
I submitted to the then President of the Spiritual Lyceum. Most of my
subsequent discoveries of imposture were communicated to the late editor
of Light, who took the best means in his power to prevent further impoBitioD
by refusing these mediums advertisement in Light.
I hope I have now fully explained my present attitude towards Modem
Spiritualism and its alleged phenomena. Should Mr. Witherby or any of
your readers wish for additional information, or require a more detailed
account of my seance-room discoveries, I am prepared to give them all
the particulars of my person31 experience.-I am, dear sir, yours obediently,
8, Primrose Hill Studios, J. G. KBULBIUlfS•
.. October 22nd, 1887.
To the EdiWr oj the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOB. PSYCHICAL RESBARCH.
Sm,-Mr. Myers, in his very able paper at the last General Meeting,
appeared t() me to offer a solution in one sentence of the question of multiplex
personality. It was but a hint. I refer to his suggestion that development
may lie at the root of the matter. Leaving too altogether esoteric assump-
tIOns on one side, the majority of civilised folk believe in the existence of
body and mind. The cogito ergo BUm satisfies most of us. Not a few of us
alao have a vague belief in the existence within us (or at any rate in some
particular relation to U8 individually) of a something we call spirit. This
lead8 to the guess that, as mind has been added to body, so spirit is being
added to mind.
Mr. Myers gave us a new definition of genius which certainly accords
with the use of the word as the generally accredited Latin translation of
aalJU'>/I, though whether genius in our sense should mean spirit itself or the
action of spirit (the unconscious stratum) on mind, as the lecturer suggested,
philology will hardly determine for us, as ingeni'Um. originally seems to have
meant an innate quality, and so inclination or even character, while the
word spiritllll, a breathing, supports the latter view. Inspiration·would thus
o
Digitized by Google
1741 Journal of Society for Psychical Re8ea;rch. [Nov., 1887.
mean activity of spirit, while according to the other interpretation men of
genius would be the spirituaJly.minded.
Belief has, of course, always jumped at external influence. The aVII(JI"~
~apo~ of Nonnus, which we find practically in the Paredlrua Spiritw of
Tertullian, is not dissimilar to the old Hesiodic idea that the aalJ'OIIu were
the souls of men of the golden age helping their posterity. The genius which
Servius, in a. note on Virgil, says may be 'oci 'llel rei 'llel hommiB, and which
we find substantiated on a coin, "Genius Populi Romani," the precursor
perhaps of the Zei~ist, is rather apart from the subject, though opening a
very interesting field for inquiry.
It is a striking fact that the interference of aalJ'OH~ was always thought
to be supernatural, and conversely Pythagoras attributed dreams and signs
and divination entirely to aalJ'OH~. No wonder Socrates in his defence
considered his direct method superior to the indirect rule of thumb divina-
tion of the augurs. Probably it was the supreme difficulty of being conscious
of a second self that made the philosopher deny that his aal~fII)II was only his
own prudence, which Nepos aaaerta it was. A word as to method. If we
have to be mos. stringently scientific in the study of the relation of mind to
body, this stringency must be redoubled when we attempt to determine the
relationship of a something, spirit perhaps, to mind. In conclusion, I may
be permitted to remark that this theory of development seems on aJl fours
with the subtle suggestions of St. Paul, a veritable genius.-I am, &c.,
R. A. H. BICKFORD·SMITH.
To the Bditor of the J OU1I.lU.L OF THE SOOI.BrY FOR PSYCHICAL R'BsJURCB.
Sm.-The interesting letter of" H. G. R." in the July number of the
JO'IM"fItOl, suggests a point which would, I think, repay investigation in
connection with experimental thought-transference; and that is-how far
the power of visualisation in the percipient is a condition of succeaa.
.. H. G. R." says that when bis experiments succeed, he instantly /1688 the
card before the agent; when the triala fail, he does not see it. I have myself
frequently made smaJ1 experimentsin thought-transference, and have almost
invariably noticed that the percipient, when he makes a succeaaful "gueaa,"
says he /J688 the card, diagram, or whatever it may be. For myself, I am so
utterly without power of visualisation that I never understood what people
meant by it until I recently read Mr. Galton's Enquiri88 into Human
Faculty, and my own experiments as percipient have invariably been total
failures.
Of course, I do not wish to do more than suggest that the two thinga-
power of visualisation and success as a percipient-may be connected; but it
seems to me that the question is worth some inquiry, which it would not be
difficult to make. It would be interesting to know, first, whether the
succeasful percipient always .668 the object thought of, or in what way it
enters his consciousneaa, and secondly, whether, apart from thought-trans-
ference, he poaaeaaes a power of visualisation, and to what extent.-
I remain, &c.,
B.W.
Digitized by Google
Nov•• 1887.] JO'IJ/I"IUil of &ciety for Psychical Research. 175
To the EdiWr of the JOURNAL OJ' THE SOOIBTY JrOB PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
DEAR Sm,-The announcement which appears in the last Journal'
that my daughters were detected using a code of signa.ls in BOrne thought-
transference experiments at Cambridge, has given me intense pain; and I
have no desire to excuse their misconduct, nor to extenuate their guilt, for
which they now grieve quite as much as I do. But I do not believe that
signs, signals, and hints of any kind were used in the earlier experiments.
It would, of course, be impossible to Bay that a sign was never used in the
thousands of experiments that were made, not only before scientific and
literary men, but in numerous drawing-rooms as an evening amusement,
dnring the two or three years in which we were interested in the matter,
though I was never aware of it; but that anything like a code of signals was
aver in use during the early experiments with which I had anything to do, I
do not believe. /
To show the positive grounds on which this conviction rests I must give
a condensed account of our first experiments. and the method in which we
conducted them.
Having heard, with great scepticism, of some curious things that occurred
at a friend's house, during the playing of the" willing game," I resolved to
test their truth with the members of my own family, almost all of whom
were then_ children (in 1880). and entirely unacquainted with any experi-
ments like those of the " willing game."
But before giving details. I may say, that after experimenting for three
or four months I gave a l~ture .on "Thought-reading," before a scientific
society in Derby, which was reported in a Derby paper the same week. The
MS. of that lecture is now before me, and from it I quote the details of our
first experiments in thought-transference, which I now propose to give.
". • • . I made notes at the time of all that occurred, and from
these notes I compile the present lecture. On the first evening it was agreed
that the children should go out of the room in tum, remaining in another
room until called. And this arrangement was carried out through the whole
aeries of experiments.
" The first evening was spent in trying the •willliig game,' as it had been
deacribed to me; and though many mistakes were made. the succeBBes were
BO much in preponderance that we all began to feel there was something in
it. It then occurred to me to dispense with •contact,' to see whether it
was really a willing game. or a merely pushing game, and we found at once
that want of contact did not interfere with the results. On the second
evening we fixed on the names of objects that were to be gueBBed, and had
very few mistakes. On the third evening we settled on the names of foreign
countries and chief towns, and had no mistake during an hour; and as,
during this time, fully thirty trials were made without a mistake, the ex-
planation must be looked for in some other hypothesis than that of chance.
The succeeding evenings were spent in repeating experiments with names of
towns, of people, and of objects-such as a pin, a match, a carpet-tack, in
fact anything we could think of; and during au hour, whilst we made five-
and-twenty trials not one mistake occurred. It was then suggested that they
should try and gueBB cards selected out of a pack whilst the gueBBer was
o 2
Digitized by Google
176 JO'U'Y"nal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Nov., 1881.
absent, and on being recalled the question WaB asked: What card have we
chosen 7 .And in sixteen triaJs thirteen were named at once withouta mistake,
the other three being guesaed on the second attempt. We then made &
similar experimeat with a bundle of fifty photographic cards, and in fourteea
trials twelve were named correctly at once, the .other two on the third
attempt."
Now I wish to call attention to the fact that during the first three or
four evenings the successes were as great aB they ever afterwards became ;
and that the subjec~ selected for guessing were of the most varied kinds-
names of persons, fancy names, of towns, and countries, and objects, &c.,
for which it would have been impoSsible to frame a code of signals so aB to
convey to the guesser the idea of the thing selected-the selection having
been always made by me just at the time. Besides, when they began to guess
cards, theTe WaB a very keen emulation amongst them aB to who should ~o the
best, aB in order to stimulate them I had promised to give to the one who had
made the highest" score" a halfpenny for each right guess. So that, had
any signs been made by any one of the company, the cry of unfair play would
immediately have been raised; this we never heard.
The report of my Derby lecture having been forwarded to Professor
Barrett, he paid us a visit at Buxton. And for more than a year afterwards
we were visited by numerous scientific gentlemen, to whom my house WaB
always open,-morning, noon, and evening, to suit their convenience. No
one WaB ever refused who brought a proper introduction; and the children
(for children they all were at that time) were always at their disposal, and
willing to be placed under all sorts of conditions, not only in our own house,
but in their private lodgings in Buxton. .And yet, during all that time I
,,/ never heard they were suspected of using lIignals. Had they been in the
habit of doing 110, we might have expected to find them improving in their
gueBsing, according aB "the code" became more perfect by practice; but
. the very reverse WaB the CaBe. .And as I found, after the early part of 1882,
that their facultiAs of percipience were gradually deteriorating, I resolved to
give up the experiments; and it was contrary to my advice and wish that
they were recommenced after a lapse of five years, knowing the power of
the temptation, which in Bomewhat kindred matterB has proved almost
universally fatal, to simulate by tricks what formerly came spontaneously and
naturally.
The laat word that I shallll&Y on this matter is this: that if the scientific
inveBtigators, all of whom afterwards became prominent members of the
.. Society for Psychical Research," could have been deceived by a few
children practising a "code of signals," their keenness of vision, and their
, faculty of "continuous observation," are less than I could have imagined.
Than tho above statement I know no more, and I can lI&y no less.
Faithfully yours,
A. M. CRBB&Y.
October 18th, 1887.
Digitized by Google
