{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lonnie_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Lonnie L NDE 7536","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lonnie L NDE 7536  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lonnie L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3858 Lonnie L NDE 7536  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had not been in the department long; it was an unusually hot month of May.  We had had several calls that day to respond to grass fires or forest fires in the area.  I had not eaten much, and none of the fire trucks had any water or food left on them.  I had been going back to back with calls that morning without really stopping for a rest.  It was over 30 degrees centigrade.  

As we responded to the large grass fire of over 10 hectares, my captain, on the first response fire truck, told me to wear my full bunker gear including SCBA (self-contained breathing apparatus).  I questioned him, as all of the others wore Nomex [Flame-resistant fiber] coveralls or just their t-shirt and bunker pants; but because I was still on probation, he wanted me completely suited-up.  At the end of the call, my knees started to buckle. I communicated to several firefighters that I needed water, and was told there was none.  On my way back to the truck, I took off the SCBA and bunker gear, and passed-out.  

Time seemed to not exist.  Though I recall being aware of my surroundings, they were not the surroundings where I had passed-out.  I was completely surrounded by a beautiful, white light that words could not properly describe or do justice.  It was nothing I have ever seen or experienced.  I felt very much at peace and not afraid.  I heard the most beautiful music, like classical or choir music.  It was nothing like I have heard before; it was not anything human or from musical instruments I recognized.  I did not feel anything except peace and happiness.  I did not want to return.  

As I pulled back into my body and began to wake up, it had become dark around me. I was aware of paramedics on either side of me with firefighters standing by watching.  So much time had passed that I did not realize that the paramedics had arrived.  I had completely lost time.  Time seemed to not exist.  I remember that I kept my eyes closed a little longer, not wanting to open them and to come out of this place.  

I then tried to tell my captain and the paramedics about the light and the music I heard, but they stared blankly at me.  They laughed it off, not wanting to listen to my enthusiastic description of what had just happened.  

The firefighters on my department turned their backs on me, walked away and tried to get me fired, claiming that I could not handle the job.  I had to fight to stay on, and made changes in the department for future calls by getting proper rehabilitation equipment on all vehicles.  It was very challenging after the incident.  None of my co-workers seemed interested in hearing what I had to say, so I kept it to myself for a very long time until I spoke with others who had also had a near death experience.  

I have had very specific dreams and messages for people in my life since the experience.  They are not for me to keep. I sometimes know things that I pass on to the person.  It is as if I see a movie happening, a dream of sorts that can have a very bad outcome.  So I warn them of what could happen, but the choice is always up to them.  It scares the person, but every time they listened to what I had seen, causing a change in their course or direction so they are heading for a positive outcome.  It has happened a handful of times now.  

I am very intuitive, and follow my instincts now, regardless of what people think or say.  I am often met with a lot of resistance, speculation, and criticism.  This does not bother me, as I have learned through these experiences to trust in God and to listen to my instincts.  It has served me, and others around me, well.  I feel very grateful and blessed every single day.  I see the beauty and miracles in everyday life on a daily basis now.  I appreciate everything so much more after this experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 30, 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Heat stroke due to fighting a Wild Fire.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  I clearly left my body and existed outside it.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was very aware and alert but in another realm, a different plain, and not on earth.  It was so incredibly beautiful.  I saw light beyond words and I cannot explain every color because they were not earth colors.  The music was like nothing I have heard before or since.  The peace and understanding that I felt was complete and I felt it to my very core.  It was a place I did not want to leave.  It was very fast, like being shot back into my shell of a body.  I instantly did not want to be back in my body when I woke up.  I woke up fine with no medical issues.  I had completely lost time and had not been aware of any of my immediate surroundings while I was passed out.  Although, I can distinctly recall the light, the music, and being somewhere that I knew was not on earth or in the shell of my body for lack of a better way of explaining it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was completely engulfed, surrounded inside and out, under around me by this light, and I could hear the most beautiful music, but did not know where it was coming from, it seemed to be a part of me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lost all meaning. I was not aware that so much time had passed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the experience my vision was crisp, clear, alert, aware, engulfed in light.  Before the experience my vision was dull compared to what I saw and heard.  I could not 'see' my body or those around me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was excellent but I could only hear the music, I could not hear what was going on around my body.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     What surrounded me seemed to be a blanket of incredible light, though it did not seem to be of any size, or limited like a tunnel, it was vast.  The light was everything.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I cannot put into words the color or brightness, it was beautiful, white and bright but did not blind or hurt to look at it. It was very comforting and completely enveloped me. I was not standing and my feet were not touching anything.  It was as if I was floating in a blanket of this light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was not a place I had experienced before; it was very peaceful and beautiful.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete happiness, joy and peace.  I felt no fear, no sadness.  I left all negativity behind me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     After the experience I did understand things about myself, I was no longer afraid of death or dying and I had complete faith in God.  I also at times get dreams or a knowing about others that I understand as a message that must be passed onto the person.  I understood that some of our life lessons here on earth are about kindness and forgiveness and I try to help others, to let go of fears and negativity.  I also see life's miracles.  I feel blessed and very grateful.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     At times, scenes from other people's future came to me in dreams or visions after this experience.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was brought up with one parent of Catholic faith the other Protestant.  I attended both churches, they wanted me to choose my own faith.  I have a strong Christian faith but not of a particular affiliation.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     See above.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I have no doubt that God exists.  My faith is stronger than it has ever been.  I am not sure exactly at what point I stopped being afraid but it was after this experience that my belief in God had no doubst, and I was no longer afraid of death, and overcame my fears in life.  I trust whole heartedly in God, in a way difficult to explain in words to others, to trust wholeheartedly and in doing so have found a certain peace.  The void I used to carry around inside is no longer.  I am not afraid of death or dying, and I no longer feel alone, nor am I afraid to be true to myself.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I cannot put into words what I experienced.  I knew to some extent prior to but had doubts or questions, when I came out of the experience I had a better understanding and complete faith in God.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My belief in God became much stronger as well as my core values, more self-confidence, able to stand up to others and speak more openly about this.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard the most beautiful music and singing but not of earthly origin.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I am now more aware, about myself and others.  I sometimes receive specific messages or information about people in my life that can negatively effect their lives that I need to share with them and discuss what I see.  I am very aware of the beauty in my surroundings now, in everyday life especially in nature.  I realized that I did not need to be afraid any more, afraid to try, to live, to fail, to love...I did not fear being true to myself or to stand up for what I believe in.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I did feel that there is a connection, a unity or oneness that we are all connected through God.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I felt without doubt during and after the experience that God does exist.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a sense of all knowing, of being completely at peace, and being whole.  Our fears and our time on earth is for learning lessons we need to experience while here.  We are also here to learn kindness and forgiveness.  It sounds so simple, yet it is so difficult for so many.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     To let go of our fears, to show kindness and forgives and to not judge.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt certain that there is life after death but not as we know it on earth.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I realized that life's difficulties challenges and hardships are part of our life lessons here on earth, and to trust in God and his plan for every one of us.  These difficulties and hardships can often be a blessing in disguise, the mold and shape us and can even help others.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     To not fear opening my heart to love, and to love even those who do not love you back.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.  I have no doubt in God and I am a much better person, far less selfish, more confident and fearless.     Large changes in my life.  I have no doubt in God and I am a much better person, far less selfish, more confident and fearless.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Some co-workers distanced themselves from me, some became toxic (especially at the time), but now they have strengthened by those who have opened up about their own experiences.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I receive intuition, dreams or messages and a certain knowing about things, of things to come, certain individuals who were usually going through a difficult time having to do with choices that will greatly affect the outcome of their lives.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The beauty of the light and music was just so incredible, it really is not possible to put into words.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away, I was laughed at, mocked, it was very negative.  Later in life it has helped others and was welcomed by very positive reactions especially by those who also have strong faith in God.  It has also helped others to feel they can open up and share about their own personal experiences.  Some of them changed their paths.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed it as being real, even though others did not.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is just a sense of knowing, of trust and of having no doubts.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I watched a movie today called Heaven does Exist based on a true story; the angels that appeared to the boy that were singing to him during his experience struck a chord in me.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It truly was incredible and very positive for me.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You may want to ask or provide a link so that if people want to submit a picture, drawing or other to help describe to you what they saw or experienced.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lonnie_l_nde.html