{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lorena_nde.html","mytitle":"Lorena NDE 3586","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lorena NDE 3586  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lorena NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1625 Lorena NDE 3586  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					That night I entered into the emergency room, I almost don't remember because I passed out in the ambulance with very high blood pressure. When I woke up my husband was looking at me upset, he had left the house four weeks ago. Seems that I was better so I was allowed to leave the emergency room, I felt bad though. When I was out waiting for my husband I felt that something was going to happen to me, so I asked him to take me back, then I don't remember until I heard the doctors say that it was impossible to do something because my blood pressure didn't slow down and my heart wouldn't take it anymore. I don't know exactly when I died because I never saw my body lying down. I thought that I was still lying down. After that, I woke up and I was in other room, it was not the emergency room anymore I was alone, I asked someone to call my husband and my son, and something made me know that I was dying.

Nobody listened I was very mad, I saw someone taking me out of the oxygen machine waiting for me to die. I felt that my body was sleepy in parts and I didn't feel any worry, I felt happy, waiting for something. There were moments that it seems to me I was dreaming. I felt like something was talking to me without words. I only knew there was somebody letting me know that I was wrong or confused. My life was like a movie only saw it from the moment I got married. There were no sequence of images, they were more like spots and I knew why I have lived that. It was a circuit or something that was growing up every time more and more that each spot was passing and my death was the goal. I just felt that God wanted me to reach that moment, because I understood many things and then I saw my husband passing from the same in that moment. 

Then I saw a future, my husband and I in a green prairie in a very nice little house, inside I saw I had more children, I just knew that my husband and I were very happy and I understood my mistake. I was cheerful and I don't know why my faith grew up so much that I just knew God had put me in this. I asked him to not let me die please, I asked him to let me see my son grow up, to show my husband that I love him, that I was wrong. I prayed without stopping I repeated I will not die I will not die. Then I was floating, it was dark and I felt a very weird sensation I only knew it was getting closer something big, like at the end of the abyss like when you fall down. I don't know but I felt I was in a box falling down; I was floating though I was dressed in white and I was very little. When I reached the moment something inside of me grew up, then I saw a white bird very big passing over my head. I saw the face of Jesus Christ for some seconds and then tree colors came out of the white bird, red, and yellow and blue it was happening all at the same moment. Very quickly, I felt a strong power I saw a huge hand that pulled me, I felt it was God's hand. I was grateful for that I just repeated God is so big and exists and I had to tell to others because I saw him without seeing him, I knew it was him though.

After that, I opened my eyes and I saw my hands and all my body shining I was so happy and I had this big smile, the nurse almost passed out. Very quickly other people came and were ordered to take me out of the box; they took me to a room. I was listening and watching many doctors that were surprised.  They didn't believe that I was alive, they were asking me if I felt good. I just kept saying God exists and I was so happy. I was in a state of incredible happiness. Afterwards, I was taken to the psychiatrist because they said I suffered of hallucinations so I decided not to talk more about it. My husband told me that I have died twice, one in the emergency room and the other in the cardiologist's room, that time I was dead a long time, and it was hours I was already in the morgue inside a box. I looked for my record and they never talked about what happened to me. I was confused because nobody believes in me or in my husband and now I found out that it wasn't a lie or I was crazy.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  07 April 2007
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt  intoxicacion de diferentes medicamentos  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I think it was when I died for the first time in the emergency room, because it only took a few minutes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think because it was when I died the first time in the emergency room, because it was only some minutes.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was passing from one place to other very quickly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Nobody talked but me, but I knew somebody else talked to me and I listened.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw God's face in the floor of the room before I saw the white bird.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Un paisaje de pradera verde muy bello y una casita .

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness. Peace, love and lots of wishes to live.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I am appreciative for my daily life. I love more to my husband and my son.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I felt that my future was full of love close to my husband and son.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Creia en Dios, nunca leia la biblia y no tenia fe.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have faith in God and I feel very lucky for living it.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'Creo mas en Dios, tengo mucha fe en todo lo que hago y lo que quiero en mi vida. Si tengo dificultades me encomiendo a Dios con fe, y todos los dias agradesco a Dios por todo. He encontrado mucha ayuda y guia en la biblia, soy mas creyente que para Dios nada es imposible.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have faith in God and I feel very lucky for living it.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I understood what I did was wrong, I understood that my husband loved me and I judged him bad. I understood that I was selfish at the time.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   In everything what happened seems like someone was talking to me without words, and I knew exactly what happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     After that I had strong sensations I felt that God was taking care of what I did. Many times I felt a spirit inside of me, this spirit was acting through me, this happened especially when I was in psychiatry because doctors didn't believe me; it was God who helped me and showed me the way to get out quickly of that place. Afterward I could felt the presence of some little souls that helped me; they were doctors who helped me when I was in the hospital.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my husband part of it, because I was embarrassed that he would think I was crazy.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was something beautiful I am grateful to God for this experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lorena_nde.html