{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1loran_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Loran G NDE 2713","mylang":"de"}
          	        Loran G NDE 2713  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Loran G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						905  Loran G NDE  2713  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was bathed in the most extreme living light one could imagine. I saw everything on earth. I saw how this light absolutely loved everything on earth, a billion times more than love, as we know it. Even the fine hair underneath plant's leaves were not only loved, but also somehow accounted for. I laughed at the notion that we did not know how much we are loved. It was stupendous in emotion. I did not want to ever leave that love. Suddenly I felt like I gasped and said,' I'm not done with my children!' Everything flew by backwards and I awoke to a smiling son. The most difficult effect for me has been the fact that I now live for that light: I want to return! No woman, child, animal or belief has ever been able to even approach this Love. It now gives me great solace when I meditate on it, as I know God is good and no one will be forgotten. The only frustration I have is that I wish everyone on earth could be bathed in, and remember, that light.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 August 2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness    Direct head injury  un-diagnosed high blood pressure and had worked too much overtime led to brain bleed.  Other Cerebral Cortex bleed  I had just suffered a massive cerebral cortex bleed and was in a coma for weeks.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It had a different validity, more real, so much less ôweightyö than this one. The body is wonderful, but an extreme weight.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my experience, I felt that its 'reality' was more valid than this one.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I was in a coma.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was able to perceive light that probably could leave you blind.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was a certain kind of knowing and I heard a voice tell me as in casual conversation, 'Down to the tip of his nose, man is exactly as what he wanted to be.'  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A living light that supported the fabric of the universe.  
  
Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw, or knew the love of that light and how everything is loved by that light.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first, I was not sure, then when that amazing light was present, I felt so much love, and I thought I was going to burst.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The faith of my fathers has taken root.    

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The faith of my fathers has taken root.    

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Words cannot describe it.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No In the sense that I'm limited now and the advice of the lame is not well accepted.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The knowledge I did not know I had and especially the living light.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Not sure, though my nursing skills seem more attuned.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Of course, more meaningful because I feel I will return to that light, which makes difficulties easier to bear.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it right away because of its joy, I never could get the experience's wonder and joy to be understood, and it was beyond words.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   NDE is mentioned in The DMSO Handbook For Doctors, which as a psychiatric nurse I had access to. No, my prior knowledge of NDE did not play a role in my experience at all because the thought of NDE didn't come up until I was fully awake.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was waking up to the world (post-cerebrovascular accident) and then, even now I meditate on it and it provides great solace.    

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I view it as real, which seems distant at times, but I can never forget the stupendous amount of love we are showered by.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Deep meditation or prayer.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Words are so lacking in regards to my experience.    

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thank you for what you do.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1loran_g_nde.html