{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lorena_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Lorena S NDE 931","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lorena S NDE 931  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lorena S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						519  Lorena S NDE  931  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

They brought me to surgery on a stretcher; I was talking to the anesthetist, medical serum was injected on my right arm, when I watched my clock (round, made of plastic, white with a black frame) and noticed that it was 18:20 pm of that blessed 29th of January 2004.


Around 18:25 pm, they were injecting me in my left armpit (it was obviously the anesthetic (just partial anesthetic, recommended for this kind of surgery). At the first puncture, the anesthesiologist asked me whether I was feeling the stream/current. Dialog follows:


First puncture.


Anesthetist: 'Are you feeling the stream, current?'


I: 'Nope.'


Anesthetist: 'How come?'


I: 'Nope, pretty sure about it.'


And I cannot remember anything else from the surgery room. Only now starts my beautiful experience. I will tell you and I am sure that, when listening to it, you will feel how love takes over your souls.


There is nobody with me, I feel how I am falling into very obscure/dark emptiness/void. But I cross it in no time, being able to see and feel the presence of my grandfather and a shiny light behind him, extremely radiant and white, that did not harm my eyes.


It was my dad's dad, yes, and my beloved grandpa, whom I loved so much. He was standing in the air. (I hardly remembered him this way, since he died 12 years ago, on 12 January 1992. He suffered from this horrible illness - diabetes- that made him lie down on a bed for a long period and destroyed his immune system. In my memory, he was living his life from this bed.)


He was wearing a white long sleeved dressing gown, tied on the neck - as an angel, but provided with no wings - that matched his scarce white hair. This dressing gown was long enough, but I still could see his bare feet in the air, just as if his body was weightless, just some few grams. He, initially, was just staring at me. Yes, staring at me full of tenderness, opening his arms and telling me that he came for me.


I do not know what really happened, but all of a sudden, when I wanted to go with him, he would not let me enter inside and just at that precise moment, I saw a big circle of people I did not know at all. Only the one leading these people was familiar to me; it was my grandpa.


They did not let me in, on my grandpa's request. I tried and tried to get in through the gap, in between my grandpa and a woman (with the same dressing gown and dark hair) whose back was the only thing in sight. However, he did not let me in and I was not ready to hear that. I just wanted to get in, but he kept saying no. He kept saying that I shouldn't get in - that he would come back for me at the right time, not now.


I remember. I am aware of it.  I felt so distressed, since I knew that if I managed to cross his arms, holding both hands together, I would be able to feel forever THAT PEACE that invaded me when I saw THAT LIGHT.


I knew that if I managed to join that circle of people, the best was to come. I knew it. I was feeling it. That's why I didn't want, my only wish was to join my grandpa. Then, all of a sudden, I started feeling how somebody was stroking my head, tears where crossing my cheek.


It was then when I recall having asked for my beloved son, Facu. I asked: 'And my baby?' A woman whom I did not know replied to me, 'Your baby is with his granny.' I replied to her that he was with my sister.


And then, somebody (I'm not sure if it was the same woman) said to me: 'Lorena, do not force yourself (since I was not able to pronounce properly) your whole family is waiting outside for you and all of us are with you now.'


The next thing was that I was in recovery and I had my mum on my left hand side and auntie Nelly on my right hand side. Both of them were holding my hands and stroking my head. I told mum: 'Grandpa comes for me now.' She replied, crying, by saying that grandpa was not coming for me, since he is aware that we need you on this side with Facu and us. I insisted in repeating the same, but distressed, since I was not with him any longer.


I recall how fast I requested my dad's presence and how I told him: 'Daddy, I was with Grandpa. He is coming for me.' I did the same to my sister Naty. I think I fell asleep. I woke up in a shared room.


Here I am, with all my beloved relatives - among them, my son and husband. Today is 19th of January 2004 and I remember it as real, full of peace and love.


I want to share with you details of the surgery (According to the surgeon, the surgery that should take no longer than half an hour). Amazingly, it took three hours and a half!


I went into surgery room at 18:20 pm; 18:25 pm injected with anesthetic, and left surgery at 21:45 pm (according to my husband). Surgeons explained to my relatives how it was not expected for me to stay in hospital, but that I had to, since - according to them- I suffered a regressive/backward crisis.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    29 de enero del 2004

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death All this happened during surgery. We are not sure whether it was caused by anesthetic overdose or surgeons trying to hide things from us (lying to us).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Not sure. As far as I am concerned, I was having this experience with all my soul.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I think I was conscious during my experience.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Not sure, since I saw Grandpa so healthy, but at the same time, I felt it as real.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I did not hear any sound at all. Everything was in quietness and peace.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     This was no tunnel, but very dark void alike.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     It was my beloved Dad's dad, who died on 12th January 1992, who told me how he had came for me and how he then repented and did not let me into the big circle full of people not familiar to me.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was very shiny and calming.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      My soul was invaded with an immensurable feel of peace; happiness about seeing Grandpa.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     After my experience, I know for sure that there is an afterlife and that it is beautiful - it is the beginning of a world full of peace and love.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     My boundary was that circle formed by my Grandpa and all those people. Once crossed, there was no way back to this life; if I had crossed it, however, I would now be with Grandpa, in complete peace and full of love.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It happened when Grandpa did not let me in. I felt distressed and did not want to comply. I kept on trying to cross into that circle.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know it for sure that death is just the beginning of something much better. I went to talk to a priest and he replied to me that there was an afterlife for sure.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was seeing Grandpa and feeling that immense sense of peace that invaded my soul. The worst part was to feel how distressed my relatives were, how much were they suffering, since they did not know what was happening to me, when I kept trying to cross the circle and to remain with grandpa - feeling the light and peace all inside me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    With my family and friends. They believed me, a little bit scared of my death, though - especially my mum and dad.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   It was not long ago.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I am very happy to know that I'll go to Heaven and stay there with my Grandparents - I know the destiny of my beloved ones.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Just that I would like to know how long it takes this experience and why is this happening. I know that there is not much that could possibly be explained, just our own faith. I would appreciate some more info about NDE.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lorena_s_nde.html