{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lonna_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Lonna O NDE 3162","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lonna O NDE 3162  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lonna O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1252 Lonna O NDE 3162  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was told (after the fact) that I was given a cocktail of heavy duty drugs. I didn't remember having been given the drugs. I must have had a violent reaction to them immediately. My baby had not been delivered yet. I remember being up high in a corner of the hospital room, watching all of those people serving me being in a panic state. I saw myself lying on the bed, but, although I knew it was I, I wasn't the least bit concerned about it. It was in no way a part of me anymore. I kept saying, 'Please don't worry about me. I'm fine.' I realized that they couldn't hear me. I felt so bad that they were in a turmoil when I was feeling fine. I felt free of all care, and yet I didn't feel dead although I didn't feel separated from where I would have preferred being.

Two days later, I awoke inside an oxygen tent. Just before I woke up, I was having a satellite kind of dream, with rockets, stars, everything ethereal flying around me. I felt 'wow' - not afraid but overwhelmed by all of the confusion. It wasn't a pleasant dream and not a place I wanted to be. I was told at that time that my baby had been delivered and that I had had a girl. I wasn't aware of anything connected to the delivery.

Later, when I was telling my experience to my registered nurse friend who was with me at the hospital, I told her if I were an artist, I could have drawn the exact scene I was witnessing from above - even to the people there, whom I had never seen before or since. I saw everyone flying around my hospital bed and heard everything that was being said. I remember glancing at my body on the bed. I think I realized it was a dead body, but it didn't seen relevant to me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November 10, 1959'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The people attending me (nurses, doctor) were very upset because I wasn't breathing. One nurse said, 'She's turning blue.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At no time was I actually conscious. As far as my viewing the scene from above, I felt very normal and conscious, although I was not.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I didn't feel of this world.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I never turned around from the scene down below in the room.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     I don't know how to answer question 25 below.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It happened very quickly, at least from my point of view. I was in a space where nothing was bothering me, except for the people who were so upset about me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I've always believed in a life everlasting.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I've always believed in a life everlasting.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm much more caring.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   But I didn't want to talk about it very much. I thought people would think I was crazy.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I have always felt that I was psychic. Lots of experiences in this, but nothing connected with my near-death experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I feel very deeply that there is a world beyond this planet. No one can dissuade me in my belief. I care a lot more about my fellow man and woman. I pray daily.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    But I wanted to share this with you with the hope that it can help your research. I'm sorry I waited so long.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real. That's all I can tell you. The psychedelic dream was my coming down from the drug overdose. The hospital room scene was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have never had one doubt about the experience being real. It is as real today as it was over forty-five years ago.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This has been a long questionnaire, and I'm weary now. I think I've told you all I know.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lonna_o_nde.html