{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lois_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Lois T NDE 6248","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lois T NDE 6248  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lois T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3008 Lois T NDE 6248  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					We were at a lake in Washington with lots of kids there.  We were jumping off a dock into the water.  A boy jumped on top of me and I kept struggling to come up. 

Then this beautiful white light with beautiful music came upon me.  I stopped struggling and felt a real calmness about me. I never felt such love in my life. I didn't fear anything.  

The next thing I remember is having mouth to mouth preformed on me.  I don't fear death anymore.  I look forward to it when it is time to leave this plane.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  8/18/58

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  While being given mouth to mouth, I could see them working on me.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It changed my life.  Since that experience, I'm operating at a higher level of consciousness and things come to me from the universe; i.e., I get thoughts about people and they want to know how I knew things about them and I have to say, 'thoughts are given to me at the moment and I just share them with you.'  They are usually very loving and full of encouragement.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I lost all meaning of time, like time didn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was clearer, like the fog was lifted.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was clearer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a vibrating and beautiful white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was just a beautiful white light and spiritual music; music I never heard before.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt beautiful emotions filled with complete love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I understood that the universe was always growing.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   It was Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in spiritual practices over religious practices.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   I belive in all religions

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I never knew of Near Death Experience until I was in my early 40's.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I had changes in my beliefs.  I look at mankind, nature and the earth as connected to the oneness and universe.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I have existed many times.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt a oneness...so I know it exists.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I felt a bond to a powerful source..oneness.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Special knowledge comes to me all the time, and I share that when it comes to me.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I know my purpose...It's to take mankind out of slavery.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I felt at peace and loved and knew that there was more to life than earthly experince.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love abides all.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I learned that religious life is not important but spiritual life is very important.  We are all connected to the oneness.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It's like it happen yesterday.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am clairvoyant, psychic and I have a constant conversation going on with source.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The connection with source.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    I shared it right away.  They believed me and were very happy that I wasn't hurt.  They weren't influenced. They thought the white light and music was something I made up.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Prior to my experience I had no knowledge of NDEs. I never knew of Near Death Experience until I was in my early 40's.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so real to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's still so clear to me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lois_t_nde.html