{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lloyd_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Lloyd P NDE 2764","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lloyd P NDE 2764  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lloyd P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						936  Lloyd P NDE  2764  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was in a dark void or space like in the universe without the stars in the distance was a light no definite shape similar to a puddle of spilled water.

The light was pulsating as if alive, I began to move toward the light, was being drawn, all of a sudden it was like I was moving at the speed of light.

The light was like a boundary but it was transparent, I passed through into the light: it is hard for me to find the words to describe the feelings one encounters. I was blinded by the light unable to see anything but the light did not hurt your eyes. It was like looking into the sun a million times over a pure white light. I felt warm, safe, peaceful, and in the presence of pure unconditional love. It was like the light was absorbing me, my life was being shown before me, I got emotional, maybe I cried, I was ashamed, but I felt the love and knew everything was alright. I know I was in the presence of God. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/23/2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-relatedAllergic reaction       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Allergic reaction to succinylcholine, died instantly.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was viewing my life in the twinkling of an eye, I mean everything, I was asking questions but knew the answers instantly. Heard no voices but there was communication, knowledge and understanding.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I went into the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Inside the light there was no end to the space and time was unlimited, meaningless as my life passed before me instantaneously.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The brightness of the light, pure white as snow, depth perception was endless no end a continual light.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Into the light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright light like a star in a dark void just one star as I was drawn closer it was pulsating like breathing it was alive. As I neared the light it grew and encompassed everything it had to be a boundary between light and dark.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, shame, peace, and forgiveness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that the only thing in life is unconditional love. I also sensed or knew that a son who I lost in an accident at the age of thirty-two was safe and in the light. I know now that death is not the end there is life after death. I have a minor in Bible from Abilene Christian University; I'm lost now and am having trouble understanding some of the teachings of my religion. People around me say my personality has changed, I am more compassionate and understanding, things that used to be important don't mean anything anymore. I am more emotional, have a deeper sense of feelings for others; I care more for the plights of others.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I believe that I had found my soul mate before this and came back to reunite with this soul.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now believe that everyone returns to the light which is God. I also believe that all have been here before in a past life or lives. This goes against all my previous beliefs, having a real problem in this area. But who am I to question the love and the power of God, all things are possible.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe that everyone returns to the light which is God. I also believe that all have been here before in a past life or lives. This goes against all my previous beliefs, having a real problem in this area. But who am I to question the love and the power of God, all things are possible.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My son was safe and in the light. One's purpose in life is to bathe in the warmth and love of the light.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Relationship with soul mate wonderful.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Only in the sense that people have a hard time believing. I know that it was real. Told son at hospital in the recovery room that things went bad, that they had killed me and I had went into the light and did not want to return, I would have stayed. Was in the intensive care unit for a week before I was strong enough for surgery.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Have a sense and perception of knowing someone in a past life, a sense of having done things before.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shared with son the day it happened. Son knows without doubt what I told him and knows that I indeed died, but has never said anything. Shared with family of my uncle at his funeral in April 2005, told them he was in a wonderful place because I had been there. I believe they were thankful and relieved.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know I went into the light, the feelings, emotions and love experienced were real. I still find it hard to understand why I'm still here. It's like I'm caught between two worlds.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lloyd_p_nde.html