{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1loni_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Loni S NDE 6342","mylang":"de"}
          	        Loni S NDE 6342  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Loni S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3090 Loni S NDE 6342  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After a brief visit in a physician's office he determined I had a ruptured ovarian cyst and was rushed the emergency room.  I was in intense pain, but alert and conscious throughout the transport. While in the emergency room, my blood pressure fell off to near nothing and I heard the doctor say to my husband and mother, 'We're LOSING HER!' 

I felt an intense cold and felt like I was 'swimming'. My next thoughts were, 'So this is what it's like to die! No more pain! I should be seeing JESUS!' And I was in His presence within a nanosecond.  I was not allowed to 'see' anything at all. The unconditional LOVE and acceptance I felt has no earthly comparison. I was told 'telepathically', as my ears heard nothing, that I could stay and, 'All is well'.  I had no memories of my life or earthly associations at that moment. All I wanted was to stay forever in the presence of His light and love.  I was so happy to be home!  Then He 'reminded' me of my children.  I have a 3-yr-old daughter who has a visual impairment and my 9-month old baby boy with Down's syndrome.  Without any details, it was made known to me that their lives would be much more difficult and they might not fare well without me.  

With the reminder of those left behind, I knew I had to return because I loved them so very much and they needed me. Their father was immature and not a very enthusiastic parent who already had difficulties focusing on family. This realization and acknowledgement instantly put me back in emergency surgery with the anesthesia ready to be administered. The surgical repair went off without a hitch and all bleeding was stopped. Recovery was rapid. The children's father died in 2005. I hope and pray he is waiting there for us now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.    NDE lasted mere seconds in Emergency Room.    A ruptured ovarian cyst.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was irrelevant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No 'visuals' were permitted.  Perhaps I would not have been able to choose to return had I been allowed to 'see'.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No hearing with my ears was necessary.  All the words He spoke were directly to my mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     JESUS WAS THERE.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   With my eyes SEALED SHUT the brightness of the LIGHT was more intense than I could ever have imagined.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes, but again, no visuals.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt unconditional acceptance and a LOVE more intense than any earthly experience. I felt HOME AT LAST! I wasn't given time to ponder the decision.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My babies needed me.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I gave my heart to Jesus as a 5-year-old child, understood what I was doing and why, and have never asked for it back. NEVER WILL.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I realized that religion and spirituality are two different critters.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   The Adversary has invaded "Religion" and made it what it is today.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The strength and conviction of my faith are increased.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt the presence of my LORD, but did not 'see' anything. He spoke, but my sense of hearing was not used. Every word was crystal clear.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   JESUS WAS THERE

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     JESUS was there!

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was informed that my children's lives would become much more difficult without me. I was safe and surrounded by LOVE that I couldn't even fathom.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I was informed that my children's lives would become much more difficult without me.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     That I was safe and surrounded by LOVE that I couldn't even fathom.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     I began to abuse drugs and alcohol within a few years of this experience.  I recovered from substance abuse. I got divorced.  My ex-husband died in a tragic accident.  My children are grown and still dependent.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   The memory has never changed.  No additions, no deletions.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I may as well serve as a 'human' lie detector! I feel I was given the capacity to expose lies as they are presented to me, even when only acknowledged to myself.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The memory has never changed.  No additions, no deletions.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared with loved ones who are dying and with others if I feel a nudge from the HOLY SPIRIT to do so.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As fact.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened, so to view it otherwise would be lying to myself.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think this questionnaire was well-done.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1loni_s_nde.html