{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lon_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Lon B NDE 9540","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lon B NDE 9540  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lon B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5135 Lon B NDE 9540  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was 14 years old. A young sophomore in high school, in the most beautiful land known to man. My favorite place on this earth.  Maui Hawaii. Year round blue water, green vegetation, hidden caves and waterfalls all across the island.

  For six months, I was part of a youth program there, all boys between 14 and 16. We were being paid to pick pineapple, one of the most physically demanding jobs I had ever known. 8 to 10 hour days, wearing armor to protect us from the serrated edges of the pine blades. During our free time, we explored every bit of the island and ocean we could. 

  About four months into the job, my friends and I learned of a secret cliff jumping spot the locals called iron maiden. It was a two mile swim from black rock beach directly west of the island. At that time, we all considered ourselves adequate swimmers capable of reaching this cliff jumping rock. Excitedly we began

 the swim, following a trusted local who had been there before.   About a mile into the swim, the shore was just a small line in the distance. A friend of mine was having difficulty due to choppy waters and some heavy undercurrents. I stayed behind with him until he was comfortable to continue. I let him ahead of me as we continued. 

  Surprising to me, I began to have trouble myself. I was a fair distance behind the rest of the group at this point, so was now alone. I panicked a bit and started floating and conserving my energy like I was taught. After some time, I thought I should head back to shore. As soon as I began to swim again my muscles cramped. I could feel every limb tense up and stop moving as I panicked harder. The pain was intense. But worse, my body began to go cold and I started to sink. I took as large a breath as I could but my head was already going under. There was only darkness below me as deep as the water was. This caused more panicking and my limbs would not move. Lungs began to burn. Limbs ached and grew numb. Body shivered with cold. The last of my breath I let out and I began to cry. I didn't want to die, but I was alone sinking further into the dark water about to suck in my last painful breath. My eyesight went red. Then black like a tunnel, I could barely see the light above me. After shaking uncontrollably, I finally let seawater into my lungs as I coughed in pain. Then time stopped.
  
  I looked around the watery abyss and realized I wasn't cold any longer. Everything was frozen around me like time stood still. Nothing moved, all was silent.  I began to see memories, as if I were reliving them. Happy memories from when I was very young, before I could speak or walk. Loving memories from people and places all around me as I grew. Even sad memories brought me joy for the times I was experiencing life. Years passed by, and as short as my life was up to that point, I saw how lucky I was to have this life. I had lived a lifetime of experiences, and all I could feel was gratitude. Joy and gratitude for such a beautiful life experience. I began to cry again, but this time tears of joy. I began to pray, a prayer of thanks to the creator for everything I was allowed to feel, see, smell, hear, touch, love, and experience. I thanked God for all of it. And I was ready. 

  Then I heard a voice. 'Stand on the rock'

  There was a sudden rush, I felt pressure in my chest, and the sound of heavy wind and water rushing past my ears. Time rushed back and I was suddenly coughing hard above the water again. I had a sudden burst of energy and my arms and legs could move again. I turned around and saw my friend. He came back to find me. I yelled to him to help me find a rock to stand on. Confused, in the middle of the ocean, he helped me search for a rock. About 30 ft away, we found a flat rock, just waist high under the water, about 3 ft in diameter. It was covered in soft grass like moss I could grab onto with my toes to keep me on without much difficulty. The rock was like a pillar, straight down in the water. 

  As I stood there I could feel my strength returning. My gratitude for life and everything I had just experienced was still heavy on my mind. And I was being allowed to live on. I shouted in gratitude to the sky and wanted to experience everything. 10 minutes later, my friend and I continued to iron maiden and cliff jumped with our friends for hours and hours. We witnessed Maui's famous great white shark later that afternoon from the top of iron maiden. 

  Decades later, my family and I still travel to Maui and swim and dive at black rock beach. It's our favorite vacation place.  The locals call black rock the gateway to the spirit world. When I swim in that ocean, I sometimes feel it calling to me. Like an old friend that wants me to come back.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 6/14/92  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drowning       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Exhaustion based drowning  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Time stood still, and I could see my life more clearly  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When time stood still  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time stopped. Ocean stopped moving. Sounds went silent  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Like reliving memories completely in a flash  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Resonant  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Was all around during memories  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme gratitude for life  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Gratitude. Lucky to have experienced life.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Entire life, good and bad moments  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Mormon   LDS  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More gratitude and love based  

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Love based spiritual belief  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     Life is precious  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Gratitude  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   'Stand on the rock'  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Gratitude for life  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Sacred  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It was more vivid than most memories.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The voice  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Journal, wife  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Nothing was more real  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Nothing was more real  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lon_b_nde.html