{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lois_m_nde_3482.html","mytitle":"Lois M NDE 3482","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lois M NDE 3482  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lois M NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1543 Lois M NDE 3482  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Here's what happened to me: (To me it was nothing spectacular but interesting!) The doctors said things like 'dopamine, serotonin etc.' The neurologist said it was a severe allergic reaction combined with an amount that was equivalent to a large overdose for my size and weight. The obstetrician/gynecologist doctor said, 'They forgot to give me the other drug that's supposed to be given with it.' Like, 'Oops, sorry, we made a mistake.'

But, to the scientist who studied NDE's he said there was a lot of hidden things that were very important to his research. I'll tell you guys but you be the judge of what's important what can be learned from it or what caused it. I now only tell people with open minds, I have had enough skepticism on this subject. I will just tell my story you be the judges.

Background: About twenty-one years ago, I had had numerous abdominal surgeries and had developed a wide band of adhesions from the umbilical area down to a tendon in my left pelvic area that was partially blocking an artery and my bowels causing severe pain and migraines. So they went in to laser out the adhesions. While in there, they found what they called large 'three cm' endometrioma. They asked if I wanted to participate in a study using an experimental drug that had not yet been tested on humans (and before they found out another drug has to be administered with it!!). I agreed to be one of the handful of human lab rats for their experiment. First, I had to get permission from the big wigs in Columbus so they dialed the number and I asked for permission. The drug was called Depo Lupron (http://www.drugs.com/lupron.html) and it was supposed to somehow work with the hypothalamus and pituitary to shut down hormones for a period of six months to 'starve' the endometriosis to death. They didn't know until after my 'experience' that another drug was supposed to be given with it and I was also advised 'once the shot is given THERE IS NO ANTIDOTE.'

After the first shot my brain slowed down to almost nothing no memory - I'd put water on the stove to boil and never remember doing it. When a doctor asked me to point to the back of my head, I pointed to the front etc. Terrible constant migraine, vomiting, etc. The second shot I was lying on husband's lap, terrible migraine, he went to store his description of what happened when he got back: He said I started convulsions then arched up and stopped breathing he said he shook me and tried to get me breathing.

Finally, after a couple of minutes I gasped and then started breathing again. But, I still didn't wake up for about ten more minutes. He called the main hospital and they told him to bring me right in. Now what I recall I felt like I couldn't breathe but then didn't care I didn't feel any more pain I was above my body. (I did not see my body convulsing it appeared to be just lying there with eyes wide open.) Then I saw this bright light in the corner (which would be the southeast corner of my living room). As I was looking at it, it got brighter and more intense. (Before anyone asks, 'no it wasn't blue/white off white or yellow.') It was, ummm, it was, umm, just bright and intense in the center with pulsing multicolored rays that blended together coming off it. As I stared at it, I was like being pulled ever so slowly towards it. I glanced at this like tunnel around me it reminded me of what the birth canal looked like in the book 'A Child is Born' which was turned into movie on NOVA called 'Odyssey of Life' (both by L. Nilsson).

(www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/odyssey/nilsson.html - which I didn't see until after this experience!)

Then I was pulled in like 'hyper speed' towards this light. Just before I got to this light, I gasped.  That was the first time during this whole thing that I breathed! I yelled NO! As I had this strange feeling if I got to the light I'd be 'Reborn' and dead to the self I was now. (Which when I woke up I found hard to believe because as a Catholic I don't believe in reincarnation but that's what I felt was about to happen.) After I gasped and said 'no' I started slowly going back the whole time I was saying, No, I can't leave yet, I want to help my kids grow up. No, I'm not ready etc.

Then when I got 'back' to the level just above my body I saw these what reminded me of humans, but no body, just lights surrounding a human form. (Later while volunteering at www.wtlcashtabula.com I found out that what I saw was called an 'aura' or bodies in their spiritual form.) Then I heard that familiar voice I hear so often in my 'narrated or guided dreams' say, 'Look!' I saw below me three 'levels of people'. The lowest level was moving so slow you could hardly see them. The middle level was moving at the same speed we are now and the top level was moving so fast as you tried to see them they would turn into fast balls of moving light. The voice said, ' Pick one.' I picked the middle level as the lowest level was to slow and the top level was 'hurting' the lowest level and I didn't want to 'hurt anyone.'

Then I heard a deeper but loving voice (was it 'God'?) say, 'All life is important. Each and every one of us were created for a reason. We are all special.' Then I floated back into my body and woke feeling weird. Everything looked brighter, hard to describe. Am I dead? Is this the same dimension? Am I really here? Nothing was going to stop me now feeling and that everything would be okay now! I was not afraid of death etc. Felt like I was one with all life forms and all God's creations. Have a real love for all life forms and all God's creations (might hate what they do at times but still Love them with this bonding type Love). Hard to explain. So that's my story.

Just looked at about fifty pages of human aura photos to show you what I saw and I guess these two would be the closest:

  					  www.turin-shroud.com/jps/auras.htm

This one closest to the tunnel I saw:

  					  http://hoegl.net/nahtod/tunnel.jpg

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  about 21-22 yrs ago

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction  Experimental (at that time) Drug for Endometriosis Depo-Lupron  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Severe drug reaction went into convulsions then stopped breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole thing.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole thing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Seemed to be using more senses sixth sense and multi-dimensional?

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Focused, clear as a bell, no other sounds or background noises to mute what I was hearing!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw these what reminded me of humans, but nobody just lights surrounding a human form.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I seen below me 3 "levels of  people the lowest level was moving so slow you could hardly see them,  The middle level was moving at the same speed we are now & the top  level was moving so fast as you tryed to see them they would turn into  fast balls of moving light. The voice said " Pick one" I picked the  middle level as the lowest level was to slow & the top Level  was "Hurting " the lowest level & I didn't want to "hurt anyone"

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful, very interested in what I was seeing and hearing! Scared at point when I thought if I got to the light I wouldn't be able to go back. Amazed at knowledge learned but most of all PURE LOVE!!!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Believe in some things now the church doesn't accept.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Believe in some things now the church doesn't accept.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More tolerant of people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Describing things that we don't see in our 'normal' life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seen dark shadows around people that would 'leave as fast as those balls of light did in my experience'. People would tell me, they didn't know what it was, but whenever I was around they felt better and all good things would happen to them. My mom said one day while my dad was present 'since that near death thing you seem to be the closest thing to an Angel here on earth that I've seen.' I chuckled Almost ma almost :-).  Also was able to see what I think are 'souls' around dead bodies As someone dies I see this like cloud like fog like form come out of the body around the abdomen and it hovers around the body area for a few days.  All other gifts that I was born with got much better and more frequent easier.  Last three years these gifts seem to be fading, hope they return!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I heard a deeper but loving voice (was it 'God'?) say, 'All life is important. Each and every one of us were created for a reason. We are all special.'  Have a real love for all life forms and all God's creations (might hate what they do at times but still Love them with this bonding type Love). Hard to explain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately upon awakening, at hospital, to family to a shrink, to a group etc., etc. Had very mixed reactions.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Just KNOW!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lois_m_nde_3482.html