{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 3105","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n46_jan_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N46 January 1888","mylang":"de"}
NO. XLVI.-VoL. TIl. JAJlUAKT, 1888.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
Professor Balfour Stewart . . . .
SJlurious Mediumshlp . . • •. . .
08se supplied to the Literary Committee
Correspondence .. .. .. ..
PAGE
197
199
2f11
209
PROFESSOlt BALFOUR STEWART.
The newspapers will have informed our members of the sudden
death of our eminent and esteemed President. He had passed through
an unusually laborious term's work at the Owens College, but appeared
perfectly well and in good spirits when he left his friends in Manchester
to join his family in Ireland. At the aeath of his uncle he had
iD.herited, a year or two ago, a pretty country residence, with some 500
acres of ground, at Ballymagarvey, near Drogheda; here he spent his
vacations, which, however, were merely change of scene without the
much-needed relaxation of his work.
On Saturday, December 17th, he arrived at his Irish home, and on
Sunday, without any apparent caus~xcept perhaps that he had a
somewhat rough passage a.crOBB the Channel-a sudden effusion of
blood OB the brain took place, which proved fatal in a few hours. At
his funeral the Senate of the Victoria University, and the Professors
and Students of Owens College were represented by Professor Osborne
Reynolds, Professor T. H. Core, and Mr. Haldane Gee. The Physical
Society, of which Professor Stewart was President at the time of his
death, was represented by Professor G. F. Fitzgerald and ProfeBBOr
W. F. .Barrett, the last-named also representing the Society for
Psychical Research. Professor Balfour Stewart was also President
of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, and a
Fellow of nump,rous scientific societies.
Professor Stewart was born in Edinburgh on November 1st, 1828,
so that he had only entered on his 60th year at the time of his
death. In his youth he studied at the Universities of St. Andrew's and
Edinburgh, and became assistant to the Professor of Natural Philosophy
in Edinburgh University. Devoting himself with enthusiasm to
R
Digitized by Google
198 JO'I.II1"TULl of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1888.
meteorology, he was appointed Director of the Kew Observatory in 1859.
In 1870 he received the appointment of Professor of Physics in the
Owens College, and on his way to Manchester to undertake the duties
of his chair he met with a frightful railway accident at Harrow. From
the effects of this terrible collision he never fully recovered, being
permanently lamed and passing in a few months from the prime of life
to grey-headed old age. But, as Professor Tait truly remarks in
Nature, in spite of this awful blow, his characteristic patience was
unruffled. Happily his intellect remained unimpaired.
In 1862 he was elected a. Fellow of the Royal Society, and in 1868
received the Rumford medal from that society for his remarkable and
important discoveries in Radiant Heat. Later on, the University of
Edinburgh conferred upon him the honorary degree of LL.D., and from
numerous home and foreign scientific societies he received marks of
distinction.
The amount of work Professor Stewart accomplished from the time
of his appointment in Manchester was most remarkable. In addition
to the duties of his chair, he wrote his famous Treatise on Heat, which
is still the standard work on this subject; his admirable Les80ns on
Physic8 in Macmillan's series; his Elementary Physic8 for beginners
and, in conjunction with Mr. Gee, an excellent handbook on Practical
Physic8. Besides these he wrote a popular work on the Oonservation
of Energy, a lengthy and exhaustive article on "Terrestrial
Magnetism" in the new edition of the Encyclopredia Britannica, and, in
conjunction with Professor Tait, the well-known work on the Unseen
Univer8e. The twelve editions through which this last-named book
rapidly passed are sufficient evidence of the profound interest it excited
and the general a.ppreciation with which it was regarded by the public.
Pararlorcical Philosophy, the companion volume, by the same authors,
which followed, did not excite the same widespread interest, though it is
a work that deserves to be more generally read, and doubtless would be
if it had not been written in. the tiresome form of dialogue. All this
literary work, together with numerous original memoirs to scientific
societies, was only possible to a 'man of most methodical habits, and of
indefatigable labour, and these were eminently Professor Stewart's
characteristics. He had, moreover, a simple- hearted and lovable
nature, which endeared him to all his friends.
Like Faraday, Clerk Maxwell, Stokes, and other eminent men of
science, -Stewart found scientific knowledge oonsistent with a humble
Christian faith. In fact, the object of his work on the Un8een Uniwrse,
and of more recent efforts in which he was engaged, was to establish the
fact that Christianity rightly regarded, was not inconsistent with, but
the only intelligible solution of, the profounder problems of physical
Digitized by Google
· Ja.n., 1888.] JO'U'ffl(1,l Of Society for Psychical Research. 199
science. Whilst a cautious and careful investigator, he was also an
intrepid thinker, and has led the van in some of the most abstruse and
difficult regions of physical and metaphysical inquiry. Of his services
to our Society, it is needless to speak; they are fresh in the memory of
us all, and testify to his courageous devotion to truth.
The following extract from the obituary notice of Professor
Balfour Stewart which appeared in Nature will be read with interest,
as it is from the pen of the distinguished Professor of Physics in the
University of Edinburgh, Professor P. G. Tait:-
" In the genial Manchester Professor the scientific world has lost not
only an excellent teacher of physics, but one of its ablest and most original
investigators. He was trained according to the best methods of the last
generation of experimentalists, in which scrupulous accuracy w&s constantly
associated with genuine scientific honesty. Men such as he are never
numerous; but they are the true leaders of scientific progress: dit'ectly,
by their own contributions, indirectly, though (with rare exceptions) even
more substantially, by handing on to their students the choicest tradition.
of a past age, mellowed by time and enriched from the experience of the
present. The name of Stewart will long be remembered for more than one
striking addition to our knowledge; but his patient and reverent spirit will
continue to impress for good the mind and the work of all who have come
under its infiueBce."
In conclullion, Professor Tait adds a personal testimony, which the
writer of this notice can heartily endorse :-
" Of the man himself I cannot trust myself to speak. What I could
say will easily be divined by those who knew him intimately; and to those
who did not know him I am unwilling to speak in tenns which, to them,
would certainly appear exaggerated."
W. F. B.
SPURIOUS MEDIUMSHIP.
By S. J. DAVEY.
On September 30th, 1887, the Newcastle Daily Chronicle, and the
Newcastle Daily Leader, contained reports of a private view of "Slate-
writing," given by a person calling himself" Mr. Wilson." From a
careful perusal of these reports, it would be difficult to form any other
conclusion than that the phenomena of Mr. Wilson, "the most
renowned psychographic medium of America," are identical with the
tricks of Dr. Henry Slade. That Dr. Slade should have elected to visit
England under a disguised name is not surprising, when past circum-
stances in his history are taken into consideration. Apart from the
prosecution by Professor Ray Lankester at Bow-street Police-court,
there are other records connected with his career that seriously
compromise his pretensions to "mediumship."
R 2
Digitized by Google
200 JouT'nal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Jan., 1888.
In 1883, accordini to the Belleville (Ontario) Intelligencer, Dr.
Henry Slade was exposed in a most complete manner, and the mark of
his guilt in the shape of a prepared slate was retained by his expOllers.
He then confessed his crime, subsequently pleading, however, that "the
gentlemen had made him drunk." On being a.llowed to leave the town
of Belleville, and having made good his escape, he circulated a report
that the exposure had not taken place with the genuine Dr. Slade, bllt
with some one falsely bearing his name.
The New York Sunday Times, of July 5th, 1885, contains a note-
worthy exposure by a lady Spiritualist, and again in the Boston
Herald, February, 1886, an article appeared entitled, Exposure of a
Writing Medium. The celebrated Dr. Slade com,s to grief in Weston,
W. Na., writes upon slates which lie upon his knees, under the tahle,
andmoves tables and chairs with his toes. It is further recorded that
Mr. E. S. Barrett, a Weston Spiritualist, publicly denounced Slade
before a concourse of people, in the Justice Hall, and in the medium's
presence explained how his imposture had been detected.
Passing over numerous other exposures, the Report of the Seybert
Commission, recently published in America, devotes upwards of 20
pages to a discussion of the artifices employed by Dr. Henry Slade
during his seances before the Commissioners. It has been alleged that
although Dr. Slade has been clearly exposed on many occasions, it is
possible that his recent performances are perfectly genuine. It is,
however, worthy of note, that there exists a complete exposure of the
fraudulent methods used by "~r. Wilson" at a private seance he
recently held at Newcastle-on-Tyne.
I have personally discussed this exposure with the medium. He
explained that the allegations of trickery on his part must be false,
since he suffered from paralysis on the right side. His subsequent
behaviour, however, betrayed the absurdity of the excuse.
Some amount of prominence was recently given in the pages of
Light to the report of "Mr. Wilson's" performance as given in the
Newcastle Daily Chronicle, September 30th, 1887.
At first sight the record is "a fair 011e to all seeming," but for the
benefit of those interested in the question, I reproduce another report
of the same sitting from the Newcastle Daily Leade?' of September
30th, 1887.
For my part, after a careful comparison of these reports, I feel that
the difficulty of estimating the value of human testimony under certain
peculiar conditions, is well demonstrated by the writers. I have italicised
some of the points, consideration of which will, it seems to me, prove
instructive.
Digitized by Go
Jan.,1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 201
NEWCASTLE DAILY CHRONICLE, &ptember 30th, 1887.
No.1.
SPIRITUALISM IN NEWCASTLE.
[A] Yesterday afternoon, Mr. Wilaon, "psychographic medium," gave a
select alate-writing seance at his apartments in Newcastle, to which repre-
sentativeB of the Newcastle Preaa were invited.
[B] Mr. WilBon states that the manifestations given by him are given
under the control of Dr. Davis, who was a physician at Man1tattanville, now
New York, above 100 years ago, and that he is also centrolled by other
spirits. Our reporter gives the following account of what took place :-
[C] The slates used were sent direct on Wednesday from the North of
England School Furnishing Company, and the table at which the visitors and
the medium were seated was an ordinary deal table,.about three feet by
three.
[D] The parties having joined hands, silence reigned for a few minute••
It was broken by the medium, who stated th..ll spirits were then in the room.
This wa. confirmed by a Spiritualist pre.ent, who, being a clairauditor and
clairvoyant, stated that he saw the spirit of the venerable Wesley present,
and that he also saw a gentlemanly-looking man in a frock coat, and other-
wise beautifully dressed, standing by the side of the medium. The latter
remarked, "Yes, that is Dr. Davis." "Will you consent to write for us1"
was the question put to the spirits, and there was an immediate knock under-
neath the table. The next question was, "How many are present 1" and
the correct answer was rendered by a number of knocks.
[E] The medium tken proceetUd to arrange f01' slate-writing. .A couple of
aZates, which were first of all critically e:JJamined by those present, were pl~d
together, one on the top of the other, a piece of chemical pencil, about a quarter-
of-an-inch in length, being pl~d between them. The slates were entirely new,
qt&ite dry, and absolutely free from marks 01' writing. They were held at arm's
let.gth by the medium, it!. the fuZl light of day, and placed with otte end 00 the
shoulderof a gentleman present. MeamDhile, the company had entered into a
conversation 00 Spiritualism, in the course of which the doubts of the public,
and even tke shams that had been p6Tpetrated in the name.of Spiritualism, were
disC'UBBed. .
[F} The medium stated it~ the course ofthis debate that ke had oftetl to
complain of the BUBpicions aroused in certain minds regarding ma~ifestatiooB
Il'UCh as that ta1Wng ~ that afternoon, but ke hoped to show to those present
that there was flO trickery in what ke was about to do, but that it was the W01'k
of powers beyond him.
[G] While ke was talking, there was, to the astonishment of everyOtte present,
tke sound of1Iig01'0'US writing betweetl tke aZates. It was impossible that the
medium could be writing, 8.1 both his hands were to be seen, and it was
equally certain that the sound of the writing proceeded directlyfrom between
the slates. It proceeded rapidly for a time ; there was the sound of a stroke
being made, and then again the writing went on as rapidly as before.
"There are several doing it," was the remark of the medium, and the finish
of what was evidentlyanother stroke was supplemented by a knock indicating
Digitized by Google
202 Journal oj Society jor P8ychical Research. [Jan., 1888.
that the writing was done. The slates were removed from the shoulder of
the gentleman on which they had rest4id, were laid on the table, and one
was removed from the other. When this had been done, the under slate
was found to be covered with expreSilions, divided by almost straight lines.
The wording of these expressions was as follows:-
Un homme sage est au-dessus de toutes les injures qu'on peut lui dire.-L. de
Mond.
The best answer tbat can be made to sucb outrages is moderation and patience.-
Dr. Davis.
Davis.-8ie haben nicht unrecht.-J. S.
[H] Quanto sinio felici di avere un tempo evoi bello la preyo de muei respetti a.
tutta la di lei cara famiylia.-Z. E.
[1] The writing was of a good kind, and it was clearly in different styles of
ca1igraphy. The first and second sentences had a direct bearing on the
conversation that had previously taken place, and referred evidently to the
part where the suspicions of the outside world had been referred to. Other
slate manifestations followed. At times the hand of the medium shoek as if
he could scarcely hold the slate, so great, stated he, was the spirit influence
upon it, and at another time it was removed from his hand under the table
and transferred to the hand of a person sitting opposite.
[J] A question, "What profession are two of the inquirers present 1"
brought the words on the slate, "They are all present." This, however,
was not the right answer, and the slate, after being under the table again,
held nearly fast to the corner by the finger and thumb of the medium,
returned with the word" Pressmen," which was correct.
[K] The question tDa8 written, it sIwuld be explained, by one of the sitters,
and was handed to the medium, with the writing down1cards, 80 that he cOllld
"ot possibly see it, or know 1vhat it was.
[L] While these manifestations were going on, a heavy iron bed suddenly
shifted its position to the extent of about three feet, a chair was thrown
from a position near the w311 in the direction of the table, and raps were
experienced on their legs and knees by the sitters. One of the· Spiritualists
present, after throwing hi!! hands up in an agitated way, suddenly had his
eyes closed, and stated that he could not, despite all his efforts, open them
again. He stated, however, that Wesley and other spirits were still in the
room, and that he was asked by one to state that these manifestations w~re
given by the spirits to people on earth in order to prove that mind could
never die, and was eternal. He was also asked to thank the gentlemen of
the Press for their presence, all.d to state that the spirits had often received
great favours at their hands. One of these gentlemen, he said, was both a
healing and a seeing medium. When this question, however, was put to the
spirits, the answer on the slates was, "He is not a medium," and with
respect to another gentleman present the words written were, " He can be a
medium."
[M] The slate was taken from the medium's hands, and transferred to a
person in tlte room, but the latter, it is only fair to state, exprell/lCd the
belief that he could transfer the slate, if he placed it on his foot, to the
.Jan., 1888.] Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. 203
medium at the opposite side of the table, and succeeded in doing 10 at the
second and third attempts.
[N] The slate had been previously transferred to persons seated in a
position that it seemed impossible for the medium either with his legs or his
hands to reach. A most remarkable thing in connection with the proceedings
was that, when any of the sitters put their hands under the table, a strong
current of air was felt-a current that could not be perceived at any other
part of the room. The manifestations, in short, seemed in seTeral instances
to be beyond the power of the medium, and it is equally certain-for the
visitors were particular in eXfi.ID.ining everything-that Mr. Wilsen had no
confederates whaooTer in the room. Everything was done in open daylight,
and the removal of the bed and the chair, together with the writing on the
inside of a slate, covered with another, and held openly to view, COD-
tributed considerably to baflle the thoughts of the non-Spiritualists present.
There was myiltery in nearly all they saw and heard, and, unless the doctrine
of Spiritualism has more in it than the majority of people allow, they were
unable to furm any conclusion whatever for the things they had Witneued.
Whether the results were due to natural or supernatural means, the sitting,
which lasted about an hour and a-half, was full of interest to all present. It
is the intention of Mr. Wilbon, we believe, to remain in Newcastle for a few
:lays longer, and any communications for him are to be addreued to Mr.
W. H. Robinson, bookseller, The Market, Newcastle, secretary of the
Spiritual Evidence Society.
NEWCASTLE DAILY LEADBR, September 30th, 1887.
No.2.
VISIT OJ!' A. PSYCHOGRAPHIC MEDIUM TO NEWCASTLE.-INTEREBrING
JU.NII!'ESTA.TIONS.
A "Press view" was given yesterday by the most renowned psychographic
medium of America, now travelling incognito, and at preaent on a allort visit
to Newcastle. [A] The Spiritualistic power of "Mr. Wilson" is ill slate-
writing, and those who would see the manifestations must be introduced, as
we were introduced, through Mr. W. H. Robinsoll, the secretary of the
Spiritual Evidence Society, at his bookstall in the Market. The latter,
like the worthy alderman ~presiding deity at the Art Gallery, has received
.. the light," and " sees vilioD.s" and" dreams dreams" ; they know what
they know. If a Chippendale or a Huxley would be equally knowing, here
is a grand opportunity, under such guides, for studying really astounding
phenomena. There were no pretentious expectations on the part of the
medium. True, it came out casually that his travels had been world-wide,
that he had been at one time with the Czar in St. Petersburg, and at another
with the settlers in the backwoods of Australia, [B] always, as appeared,
accompanied by his "familial''' or infiuencmgpower,thespiritof a Dr. Davis,
to which time and distance were u nothing. He had died more than 100
years ago in Manhattanville (now New York), and, by long practice through
the medium, was an expert in manifelting by writing. Mr. Wilson is an
elderly gentleman, of English, French, and Scotch descent;; that is to say,
Digitized by Google
204 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Jan., 1888.
his maternal grandfather was a Scotch general in France and his father an
Englishman. He survives all his nearest kinsfolk, as well as two wives, to
both of whom he was so attached that their shades are frequently with him,
and the secretary of the Spiritual Evidence Society had scarcely sat down
before he, being a "leer," startled us by the visions present to him. The
saintly JOJlD Wealey was there an interested observer, and one he described
and named was identified as a wife of the medium.
The two strangers saw nothing, although both the medium and secretary
felt the "influence" to be strong, the room being perfectly peopled by
ghostly visitors I In this pleasant condition of affairs the strangers sat down
at one side of a square deal ttl.ble, which was enlarged by the raising of two
wings on supportll, while the medium sat at the head and the secretary at
the foot.
[0] Several new alates, freshly imported from a shop in town, were laid
down, with tiny fragments of slate pencil, made square, as was explained, to
keep the writing material from rolling off the slate.
[D] Our quartette formed, presumably, a "charmed circle," with their
hands on the table, and immediately tappings were heard on a slate,
rappings under the table, on the floor, and on the backs of the chairs,
and specific knocks made by the medium, such as with the close and open
hand, were exactly imitated. Asked as to how many spirits were prepared
to manifest, the slate tapped out" four." All this time the medium was
restless, and appeared to be suffering more or less from the control which,
by-the-way, he claimed to have had all his life. Be believed the influence of
the spirits had been bom with him, as his parents were gifted as "seers."
[E] (}hatting toent on quite freely at the table, while the medi1Jh1l, seemed to
be fOTCing a slate tuitl, a bit of pencil 'Under the leaf of the table. Failing in
doing this at the time, another slate was placed on the top of it, frame to
frame, with the little bit of pencil between. It was held CJ-Der the l~ft shooZdwr
()fthewriter in his and the medwm'llright hands, the left hands remaining in
the circuit on the table.
[G] Almost immediately the sound of slate pencil work was heard between
the slates 10 held, and whenever the medium lifted his left hand from the
table the influence seemed broken and the sound of writing ceased, to
recommence immediately on the hand being replaced. The action was like
the elimination of the safety fuse in an electric circuit, the psychic force, or
mysterious power being gone. A tap on the alate informed the medium
that the task, or rather request, was done, and on opening the slates theside
of one was seen to be covered with writing, as even as if it had been done on
ruled lines. According to Pope-
Heaven first taught letters for BOme wretch's aid,
Some banished lover, or BOme captive maid-
but here was a use little dreamt of in tJtat poet's philosophy. It had been
stAted that there were four spirits prepared to manifest, and there were the
examples of their "handiwork." The first was in French :-
UII komme aaqe est audeum de toute.le. injuru qu'QfipM lui dire.-L. de NORd.
[The wise man iaabove all the injurious thing8 said of him.]
.Digitized by Google
Jan., 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 205
The next paragraph was in bold English, and seemed to bear out the
aBBurance of the secretary that the viewleBB apparitions in the room were
much interested in our conversation. It was :-
The but at'IftDef' that CIJ7I be made to 8UM outrage• ., moderation aM patience.-
Dr. Da'lJi••
Again the cosmopolitan character of the assembly was manifested, and a
German had his say, although the writing was not in the native characters :-
Da'lJia--8ie kaben nieht1J.7If'eche.-J. S.
[Davis-You are not wrong.]
The fourth was in a language we were not musician enough to understand,
but as Artemus Ward would say, it was "somethin' to this effek":-
[H] Quanto nnw feliei di allere un tempo evoi beUo. La preyo de mici re.petn a
tutta Zadi lei carafamigUa.-z. E.
[L] The slate-writing feat appeared to have excited the unseen cali-
graphists, for on a sudden a large heavy bedstead in a comer of the room
was turned half-way round ; the secretary was agitated, and, saying they
had "sealed his eyes," appeared to fall into a kind of trance; the writer
felt like a hand grip his right knee, and looking at his neighbour discovered
the lattel' turning an equivocal look at him as much as to say" none of your
larks," yet our hands were all on the table. Then the chairs on which we
sat got shifted a bit by no visible means, an empty chair on the opposite side
of the table was turned round,and altogether things were,for a little,somewhat
lively and pleasant. The medium el"er and anon cried out suddenly, as if
he had received a shock from an electric battery, yet we, the strangers, felt
in no way discomposed, and nothing happened wheu we ventured upon a
little laugh-quite natural and not at all hysterical, it may be explained-c,n
0111' own account.
[M] The medium, in attempting to get more writing under tke table,
this time said he felt the power pulling the slate from him, and passing out
of his hand it emerged at the opposite comer and was impelled with some
force back towards him, both his hands being above the table. The secretary
and the other observer had it passed to them, and before receiving it, oh I
gruesome to relate, affirmed that they each felt as if a chill breath-CO the
cold wind rushing" spok.en to by Mi'B. Hemans, perhaps-was being blown
upon their hands I All.me same, one of the strangers fancied the slate
might be so passed on the foot and tried it, but no such movement could be
detected on the part of the medium. We were asked to write a question
nnseen by tb.e medium on the slate with a view to an answer.
[J] The question was, "What is the profession of the inquirers at tke
table 1" After some little time there was writing on the slate which read,
" All of you."
[K] Another trial, but it iB only Jair to 8ay after the queBtion had bee?
told to the medium, it'1.Ca8 correctly answered. The most mysterious part of the
siSance, which took place, of course, in brosd daylight, was the writing
between the slates. A bit of chair-turning awoke the seoretary from hjs
trance, and relieved his closed eyes, after which" Good-bye" was written
on the slate, and the extraordinary phenomena ended. We asked the
Digitized by Google
206 JO'IJI1"M,l of Society fOT P8ychical, Research. [Jan., 1888.
medium why the writing could not take place above as well as below the
table, ad in our clear view 1 His answer was that the human eye, the reflex
of the mind and will power, had an influence which destroyed that of the
manifesting spirits, and he illustrated this with the case of a bird fascinated
by the eyes of a serpent. There was a vital power trallBU'itted that could
not be seen, it could only be felt! This is the latest if not last and great
mystery, and, much puzzled, we quitted the scene.
In report No. 1 [0] we are told :_IC The slates used were sent direct
on Wednesday from the North of England School Furnishing Oon:pany."
No. 2 [0] says :_IC Sev~ral new slates, freshly imported from a shop in
town, were laid down." It appears probable from the above statement
that the slates had previously been sent direct to the medium. If we
compare the statements marked [E] and [Q] we find that reporter
No. 2 made a note of an important point not recorded by reporter
No. 1. We find that IC chatting went on quite freely at the table, while
the medium seemed to be forcing a slate with a bit of pencil under the
leaf of the table. Failing in doing this at the time, another slate was
placed on the top of it, frame to frame." This!loes not appear such a.
straightforward proceeding as that described by the Newcastle Daily
Chronicle reporter. Aga.in, reporter No.1, in the passage marked [I],
remarks that some sentences in the long message had a direct bearing
on the conversation that had recently taken place, but it is noteworthy
that the medium himself took a. leading part in this very conversation.
Reporter No.1 in passages [J] and [K], mentions that the medium
could not possibly see or know what the question was, and he alludes
to the subsequent correct answer, and actually omits to record the
important fact, mentioned by reporter No.2, that it was not until the
question was told to the medium that it was correctly answered.
[ M] It does not appear that a special experiment was devised
to exclude the possibility of slates being moved under the table by the
medium's foo~, after the discovery made by one of the sitters that with
practice he could repeat himself one of the movements. Weare simply
told that in previous experiments the slate bd been moved in a way
that seemed impossible.
During a subsequent seance a.t Newca.stle-on-Tyne, IC Mr. Wilson"
was detected in the act of moving a slate in the manner indicated. At
the time he was wearing a. sock cut down so as to admit of a free
working of the toes of his right foot, which, by reason of his wearing a
low shoe, could be easily brought into play. This method is well
known as being somewhat peculiar to Slade, and there is evidence
to show that he has been detected. on several occasions in its employ-
ment.
IC Mr. Wilson". informed me that he was the originator of
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 207
" Slate - writing" ! I believe this statement to be correct.
In conclusion, I may remark that I addressed a letter to the
Editors of the NeWCa8tle Daily Chronicle and Newcastle Daily Leadert
in which I stated my conviction that the "phenomena of 'Mr.
Wilson,' " as recorded in the above-mentioned paperBt were identical
with the tricks of Dr. Henry Slade, and I requested the publication
of my statement to that effect. In reply I learnt that "my surmise
was believed to be correct." That Dr. Slade has a repertoire of adroit
as well as barefaced methods of imposition seems universally admitted
by Spiritualists and scepticBt hence it is right that the public should be
warned in regard to the so-called "spirit manifestations" of "Mr.
Wilson."
S. J. DAVEY.
CASE SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G
-308
t
From the Rev. W. S. Grignon, of The Grove, Pluckley, Kent.
April 5th, 1887.
I send you herewith some details of a first-hand record of tW()
apparitions of the same deceased person to two persons, relatives, at.
intervals of two to four years after the death, apparently on the same spot.
The case came to my knowledge through the uncle of a pupil now' with me,
a retired colonel of RE., to whom the two percipients sta.nd in the relation-
ship of auntand uncle's wife respectively. Through him I sent some questiona
to these two ladies, and with the replies received a letter from one of them,
Mrs.J., fromwhich itappeared that she was an acquaints'Uce of myown, mother
of two boys who were under me at FeIated. I knew her la.te husband also
very well. She gives reasons, not flimsy and fanciful, but practically con-
nected with the past and present ownership of the houss in question, why
great trouble and annoyance might arise for herself and her lister·in-lsw if
the facts were to " leak out" in connection with the real names, and binds.
me notto disclose them. I am compelled, therefore, to ask you w rely upon
my word for the following account of the parties concerned. The initials.
which I have given are not the correct initiaIa of the persons described. Mr.
J. was a professional man of high character and good position in a country
town of no great size, which I call X. "HiBS R J." is his sister, a lady
now far advanced in life. " Mrs. J.. S. J." is his widow-a sensible woman
-not, I think, likely to be fanciful and credulous in such a matter. The
father of my friend, Colonel B., of the R.E., married a Mias J., sister of
Miss R :J. and Mr. J. above mentioned. Hiss F. B. is his sister (Colonel
B.'s), now deceased. The old lady who is supposed to have appeared was
the mother of Miss R. J. and of Mr. J. I made such inquiries as occurred
to me, but can send more, if there be any questions which you would car&
to put.
WILLUH S. GlUGNON.
Digitized by Google
208 JOU'MU},l of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1888.
STATDlBl'IT OJ!' MIss R. J.
After two years since the death of my mother, when all sad recollections
were gone, I was walking one day, at 10 a.m., downstairs by myself. All of
a sudden I heard a kind of lCuttle, and turned round to see what it was, and
there saw distinctly my late mother coming out of her morning-room,
dreBBed as usual, black silk dreBB, large white apron and collar, white stockings
and black shoes. I watched for a moment or two, and BB.W her turn to go
up a pAir of stairs to her late bedroom, when all of a sudden her head went
off and the apparition diaa.ppeared. I related the fact at the time, and it was
considered nonsense. I only BB.W it once, and hoped I should not again.
Mias R. J. has kindly replied to certain questions sent to her as follows:-
1. "Where is the house situated, and has it any special name 1"
High-street, X.
2. .. Have any peculiar and unaccountable BOunds ever been heard by
yourself or by othem 7"
No.
" Could you sketch, however roughly, a plan of the part of the house
where the apparition was seen, marking the points where it first appeared,
and where it diaa.ppeared 7"
Can't dJ;8.w, and have left the house BOme time.
4. "Did you recognise the apparition by the face or only by the dreaa,
or by dreBB and figure 7..
By the face, dress, and figure.
5. .. Did you mention the apparition at, or abortly after, the time of ita
occurrence to any persons who could now state their recollections of the
circumstance 1"
I mentioned the occurrence to my sister, who is dead, and another, who
is dead also, and was not believed.
6. "Has this appearance ever to your knowledge been seen by any
person other than yQuraelf 7 If BO, when, and by whom 1"
I believe S8.-J. S. J.
7. "Have you On any other occasion seen an apparition of the aa.me, or
of any other person 1"
No.
8. "Had your mind just before been in any special way turned towards
the deceased 1"
No, nat in the least.
STATEMENT OJ!' MRs. J. S. J.
On leaving the nursery, about eight o'clock in the evening, I saw the
apparition of an old lady going slowly up a few stairs at the eDd of
passage. There waa no light where I waa, but there waa partial light on the
stairs from the hall gaslight. I stood still, astonished, knowing there was
no one in the house like her. She vanished before reaching the top stair.
Some weeks after I menb,8ned the circumstance to a young lady, F. B., who
waa on a visit to us, and deacribed the apparition. She said, "That is my
grandmamma." (Died AUiUst 3rd, 1855.) I Ilever BB.W the uld lady in her
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1888.] JO'IJ/1"'nal of Society for Psychical Research. 209
lifetime. I did not keep a date of the occurrence, but, as far as I can
remember, it was the winter of 1859.
Mrs. J. has also kindly replied to questions.
1. Question as above.
High St., X. No especial name in the time of the J. family.
2. Question as above.
Have uo idea of drawing. Passage 40 feet long. Six stairs at end of
this passage, leading up to bedroom. Apparition seen from other end of
passage on second stair, moving feebly up that stair and two next-
disappeared.
4. "Did you see the face or the figure and dress only ¥ Could you give
now the description of the appearance which induced F. B. to say, 'That
is my grandmamma ' ¥"
The lady had her back to me, lion elderly lady, rather small, a dark dreBB,
a little shawl or something light about the shoulders, a cap.
5. Question as above.
I mentioned it to MiBB F. B. some weeks after the occurrence. She was
not in the house at the time. MiBB F. B. is now dead.
6. Question as above.
MiBB R. J. : I have only known this lately.
7. Question as above.
I have only seen the old lady in question once.
8. Question as above.
No.
I will put down on paper the length of passage, and the number of
stairs where I saw the apparition. These few stairs led to the bedroom this
old lady used in her lifetime. [A plan accompanied the account.]
As I said in my former letter, I had never seen the old lady in her
lifetime, but from Mr. J. (my husband) I had heard a great deal of her
goodneBB and kindneSB, so that the sight I had-for I felt at the moment
who it was-gave me some astonishment but no fear. I think it right to
add the reason I did not communicate to others what I had seen. We were
a large family party, and some members of the same were of a highly
nervous temperament, and I had two little children who went up and down
this paBB&ge daily. If what I had seen had become known, we should have
had endle8B trouble with the children.
I made my communication some weeks after to Miss F. B., sister of
Colonel B. She was on a visit to me, and I made her promise not to tell
"the J. family." She died some few years ago, and it is only just lately
that I became aware she had mentioned the circumstance to her family.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOB. PsycmCAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-May I once more ask you to allow me space for a reply to Messrs.
Wetherby and Fry's letter 1 I am reminded of assuming too much when I
referred to your correspondents as being sceptics. It is evident they are so
by their own admiBBion. For to be .. open to conviction" llle&nB that
Digitized by Google
!10 Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. [Jan., 1888.
although I:.ot 8011 yet convinced they might bec.me so upon certain conditions.
Judging from the tenor of Meurs. Wetherby and Fry's laa~ letter, ihppears
that the conditions required for their acceptation of the truth of spiritual
phenomena have not 8011 yet been supplied to them. Hence, I maintain that
MeBBrB. Wetherby and Fry are still sceptics, and moat likely will remain so
for a loag time to come. .
Their memories, as regards certain statements of my own, may be
corroborative; but this does by no means prove that their memories are not
at fault. I presume, in fact, I feel certain, that after their visit the subject
W80ll further discuued and the principal subjects of our conversation
recapitulated. That is the very time when confusion comes in. I am
positively certain that if the after talk had been held in my presence, many
slight corrections as to details would have been introduced. I do not go so
far 8011 to pretend to recollect the whole of a conversation occupying fully
two hours' time, no more than I do pretend to remember what I had for my
lunch or dinner on that particular day. And I would not venture to again
remind your correspondents of the fallacies of human memory were it not
that but for notes kept of my personal experience I should have
forgotten many incidents and many deta.iJ.a. But 1 have a perfect
recollection of my personal experience as an investigator, experience
of which I have, in almost every C8olle, kept record and to which
I can refer; and I most emphatically deny ever having quoted as
examples of my own. experience CBBes which did not happen to myself. Nor
was I anxious, as Messrs. W(.therbyand Fry suggest, to convert others by
exaggerating my facts; because I have invariably referred inquirers to the
mediumB WIth whom I W80ll acquainted in order that they might judge for
themselves. I remember recommending MeBBrB. Wetherby and Fry to the
seances with Husk as medium, so 8011 to afford them the opportunity of
witnessing the very phenomena I had described to them. Instead of
following my advice, MeBBrB. Wetherby and Fry went to a public seance
at Williams's, where they did not meet with these phenomena. If they
failed to verify my statemel'ts it is certainly not my fault. I object to the
insinuation that I (perhaps unconsciously) (sic) exaggerated my facts in order
to convert others, although beingl by my own admiBBion, a dupa. I was not
then aware that mediums cheated, and could never have admitted having
been duped. Such derivations are utter nonsense. The facts are, and I am
in a position to prove it, that from the moment I found that premeditated
fraud on the part of mediumB was clear beyond a doubt, I withdrew from
public seances altogether. My letter in the June number OB professional
mediumship was written immediately after my discovery of undoubted
trickery, and W80II forwarded to you lIome 18 months before its publi-
cation. I think this letter is a sufficiently clear warning against-rat.her
than a recommendation in favour of-the Spiritualists' pretensions.
As to the pictures to which your correspondents refer, true, I only
described one because one W80ll specially mentioned. I hope Meurs. Wetherby
and Fry are notso exactingas to expect a separate description and explanation
of each. There were "14" of my pictures in thtl room I The space
of the Joornal cannot be sacrificed to the introduction of a subject which
Digitized by Google
Jan., 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 211
scarcely interests its readers, and be filled by a catalogue of pictures which
few (if any) members of the Society have seen. Besides, I do not know
which of the pictures were-and which were not-seen by your correspon-
dents; there have been as many ~ 23. But since Messrs. Wetherby
and Fry again point to a special subject, viz., the" spirit" with the eagle
",laws, I will give them the explanation they desire. At the same time, I beg
to inform your correspondents, iIi case they are interested in the history and
()rigin of all the drawings, that further information must be obtained, not
through the pages of the JO'Umal, but upon personal application to myself.
The figure designated by Messrs. Wetherby and Fry as the "spirit with
claws like those vf an eagle" (an ornithologist would have said, "nails like
a pigeon") represented a subject exactly as it was presented to me. I do not
now regard that" form" as a visitor from the " world unseen," or as a repre-
.sentative of a distinct type of some ultra-mundane creature, but rather as the
medium in an abnormal condition. This may appear a startling declaration,
perhaps not much better than an admission that it was a "real spirit."
But, strange as this statementmay appear, I still adhere to previous assertions
that genuine phenomena occur at times; and that although such a
"presentation" does not necessarily imply the presence of a temporarily visible
spiritual being,my picture represented an occult manifestation. The results of
investigation may demonstrate that so-called materialisations are n<>t what
Spiritualists believe them to be, but it has not as yet been definitely sattled
what these manifestations really are. And if there were not "something"
extraordinary in these manifestations, Spiritualism and its phenomena could
not have lasted a single month..
It is perfectly true that I advised my visitors (Messrs. Wetherby and
Fry) not to believe in anything (Spiritualistic) until they had absolutely
satisfied themselves of its truth. I remember having told them that 1 could
not help believing in the reality of what I had witnessed over and over again.
Is there, may I ask, anything extraordinary either in my advice or in my
remark 1 Does not everyone believe in what he considers to be true 1 It
does not follow, however, that A should necessarily be satisfied with the
same evidence which convinces B. If all my personal experience had been
shared by Mesars. Wetherby and Fry they might bave arrived at tbe same-
partlyerroneous-conclusions, or they might have by this time been converted
to the most orthodox form of Spiritualism; or, assuming the other extreme,
found out all the trickery at a moment's notice. To make -use of an
example :-Did not the whole of thinking a.nd observing humanity up to the
time of Copernicus and Galileo believe that the heavens moved and tbe earth
stood still 1 Did the ocular aemonstration that the sun rose in the east and
set in the west satisfy Copernicus 1and did the evidence of the latter satisfy
the Church and priestbood of his time 1 Would Mesars. Wetherby and Fry,
like a modern Copernicus, prove that I am wrong and point out my fallacies,
I would be thankful indeed.
As to the statement of the spirit-child, wbich your correspondent, Mr.
Fry, insists in distorting into a parody, permit me to refer him to my answer
on tbat subject in the letter addreased to yourself about a year ~o. n may
afford Mr. Fry a certain amount of delight to turn my description of an
Digitized by Google
212 JO'Urnal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Jan., 1888.
incident into an absurdity, but he must not expect that I sball answer it in
that form. Let him give my proper vemion and I will give my reply. But
you will notice from that letter, in which I gave you my explanation, that
Mr. Fry has mixed up the details of two distinct cases, and draws conclusions
from facts belonging to the wrong case. His conjectures are, as you will see,
based upon false premises. I certainly do not believe in the possibility of
any human head presenting such striking anatomical abnormalities as those
he suggests, whether it be the head of a daughter of a medium or of anyone
else. I might as well ask Mr. Fry whether he believes that, if ol1e friend of
his has sailed to the Antipodes and another friend had jumped a ditch, the
former could jump the distance between England and Australia.-I remain,
yours truly,
J. G. KBULBMANS.
8, Primrose Hill Studios, N.W. January 1st, 1888.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OJ!' THE SOCIETY J!'OB PSYOmOAL RUEA.B.oH.
Sm,-I have read with a certain amount of interest the criticisms of Mr.
S. J. Davey on the slate·writing performances of professional mediums,
which have appeared in the Journal, of the Society.
He attributes them to trickery, and shows by testimony that he has com-
pletely deceived a number of persons by producing apparently identica.l
effects through the agency of pure conjuring, adding that there are several
ways of obtaining these deceptions, but gives no clue to the modus optf"andi
of even one.
Now, a large proportion of inquirers, at the very outset of their investiga-
tions, arrive at this conclusion, though they are unable to detect the method
adopted.
Beyond confirming this view to BOme extent, these papers give no
information from which a fresh start in the inquiry can be made.
I therefore submit that they are unsatisfactory. What is wanted is just
that which is omitted, and that is how these writings can be produced by
sleight-of-hand.
Perhaps, however. ~{r. Davey contemplates enlightening the Society on
this point in another paper, though I still think, and many will, I believe,
agree with me that the article would be much more complete had the
omitted iJUormation been embodied in the account already published.-I am,
sir, your obedient servant,
GEORGE G. BEAZLEY.
74, Redcliffe-square, S.W.
November 1st, 18~.
Digitized by Google
