{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1liz_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Liz R NDE 781","mylang":"de"}
          	        Liz R NDE 781  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Liz R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						291  Liz R NDE  781  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was a Saturday night and I was hanging out with my friends, we were smoking marijuana. I had been smoking a lot and really started to feel the effects. My boyfriend was in another room and I went to see what he was doing. All of a sudden, I felt really tall and I thought the room was shrinking. I started getting really scared, my boyfriend tried to tell me something, and I punched him. Right then he told everyone to leave because I never act like that. I started crying and so did my boyfriend, which scared me even more.


Eventually I started having trouble breathing and my boyfriend had to call an ambulance. By the time they got there I had turned white as a ghost and my chest had gone dumb. I can't really remember anything after that until I heard the emergency medical technician talking to me. He was trying to get me to stay awake. They had hooked me up to a heart monitor. I could hear it but I couldn't figure out where it was. Then I heard it flat-line. The emergency medical technician started shouting at the driver to hurry up and the sirens were turned on. I started freaking out and asked the emergency medical technician if I was going to die. He said he didn't know.


After he said that I started to have more trouble breathing. I remember thinking, 'Dear God, please don't let me die. I swear I will never do anything so stupid again. Please God I have so much to live for. What will happen to mom if I die. Especially if I die like this.' I kept saying that over and over in my head. I had never prayed so hard in my life. All of a sudden everything became very quiet and I felt very peaceful. I was surrounded by a brilliant white light and felt very safe and happy. I felt like I was floating and I could see everything that was happening to me. I saw myself lying in the ambulance and I became very frightened. I looked so horrible. My eyes were halfway opened and I was shaking violently. My skin had turned ashy gray.


I realized that my boyfriend was crying in the front seat. Then I felt a hand gently pushing me forward and then was back in my body, I guess, if I had left it. I stopped shaking and felt very peaceful. I knew I had walked the line and God gave me a second chance.


Later I found out I had only flat lined for a few seconds, but it seemed as if time had stopped. Ever since that night I have felt a presence with me everywhere, I guess you could say it's watching over me. Sometimes when I get myself into trouble, the presence seems to become stronger. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    Early March, 2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Drug Overdose  Life threatening event, but not clinical death My heart stopped beating.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I couldn't see myself out of my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I guess I was only half conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time felt like it had stopped.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I couldn't hear anything.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I was surrounded by a beautiful, bright, white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I just felt like everything would be alright.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was pushed.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Catholic

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I don't go the church anymore but feel closer to God.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My belief in God became much stronger.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I just feel like there are no words to fully explain what happened to me. If there were, don't think anyone would understand or believe me

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I now feel the presence of something. It may be a guardian angel.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Feeling that God was with me was the best part. Seeing myself the way I looked on that stretcher was the worst.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I tried to tell my boyfriend about it but he said I was just high.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1liz_r_nde.html