{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1liz_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Liz T NDE 22836","mylang":"de"}
          	        Liz T NDE 22836  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Liz T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3318 Liz T NDE 22836  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was twelve years old, after school one afternoon, some friends and I were playing a (now known to be) dangerous game that would result in the loss of consciousness.  A child would spin around as long as they could, then take a huge breath and hold it while another child would ‘bear hug’ them very tightly.  This usually resulted in the child losing consciousness. 

My memory of this incident is from above, looking down from high above a nearby tree.  The tree was very old and very tall, possibly fifty to sixty feet tall. It had been my turn to ‘try’ the game, so I had spun around and held my breath while a friend squeezed me. 

My next memory is of being high above the group of children, higher than the tree, looking down on them.  I could see one girl lying on the ground and the other children standing around her. There was no emotion connected to the experience.  It felt totally natural to be in that state, and I did not recognize the child on the ground as being myself.  

My next memory is of ‘waking up’ on the ground, feeling slightly sick to my stomach and very dizzy. The whole incident lasted only a couple of seconds before I awoke.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Childhood prank.   Unconsciousness

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not have any intention of ‘looking at’ myself.  It seemed to me as though I were a separate being from those on the ground and I had no emotional response to that. It felt completely natural.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It seemed the same as always.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I could see the tree, the school, and the group of children.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     However, I have had numerous other experiences throughout my lifetime.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   The whole experience lasted only a couple seconds and I did not remember the OBE until quite recently.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I have always believed that we are not our bodies, even as a very young child. I have always had a ‘sense’ of the Divine.  Since I did not remember the incident until recently, it made no impact on any beliefs I may have had at the time.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was the view from above—not something normally experienced.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people do not care to listen, or will only listen politely, then go on to other subjects.  My mother, who had a NDE when I was about fourteen years old, would have believed the experiences I've had, but sadly she transitioned many years ago, before we had an opportunity to discuss them.  Most of my experiences have happened in my adult years, although there were a few that occurred during my childhood, but again, were not remembered until I was an adult.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1liz_t_nde.html