{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1liz_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Liz S NDE 859","mylang":"de"}
          	        Liz S NDE 859  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Liz S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						349  Liz S NDE  859  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had a cervical biopsy because I had had a pap/ cervical smear which indicated it was needed. This was done in an obstetrics/ gynecologist's office. He had delivered my two children. I was fine during the procedure. After, I was getting ready to get dressed the nurse was in the room with me. I began to feel dizzy, and told her I felt that I was going to faint. She had me lie down, and I fainted. She called the doctor. According to him, there was no pulse when he got there.


During the time I was 'out', I had the most joyful experience of my life. The joy and ecstasy I felt was beyond description. I was with a presence, which felt like a male. I felt fully alive. I felt warm and very loved. We were in a loving situation like a welcome of a very loved one who had been away a long time and had returned. The emotion was much stronger than any I have ever before or since experienced. When the doctor resuscitated me with CPR, I felt as though I had been thrown at a very high speed through space and then hit a solid wall. I was afraid when I woke up, and didn't know where I was. I thought I was being attacked, and tried to claw the doctor's face, which was in mine. I felt disoriented for the rest of the day. The doctor told me that the cervix was very sensitive and could trigger the vagal nerve response that I had.


I had another experience ten years later after having had thyroid surgery. The next day I was suffocating to death because my nerve to my vocal cords had been touched during the surgery, and the vocal cords were paralyzed and there was swelling which blocked my airway. I was floating off and looked back at myself on the bed with the doctor there working on me. I thought to myself, 'I am dying, this can't happen. I feel too peaceful. I can't go yet, I have a small child.' They then knocked me out, so I didn't feel any more. They had called my husband at home to come because I was dying and they felt there was nothing they could do.


This has had a very positive effect on my life and spirituality. I also had an experience when I was three and having my tonsils out. I can clearly remember watching the surgery being done as though I was up on the ceiling. This was really strange to me after I recovered from it. I remember it well, and have talked about it all my life.   I have always been very intuitive and a little psychic. I am sensitive to all environments and living things. I 'know' when things are going to happen. On the night of September 10th, I was in the Bolivian 'Amazon' region with my family on a boat trip. We were sitting around a campfire with the 'Captain' of the houseboat we were on. I had had no alcohol or drugs, which I never have, so my mind was clear. We were enjoying the peace, being all alone in the jungle with no one around for miles. Suddenly, I saw explosive lights in my head, and felt a strong sense of fear. A voice entered my head, and said, 'Don't worry, you are all safe here'. I told my husband about it when we got back to the boat. I can stand next to a person and tell what profession they are. I have trouble in crowds because of all the energy, which affects me now. I tend to seek out nature.


I am a normal person. I have four children. I majored in dental hygiene and journalism in university. Right now, I am back in school, majoring in psychology, because I want to earn a counseling degree in order to do grief and 'death' counseling. My near death experience did affect my life. I do not fear death, and I know there really is life after death, and it is beautiful.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1990

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Surgery-related  10 minutes after a biopsy  Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did during the last experience I had after the thyroid surgery.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt like I was alive and perfectly conscious.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I was with someone; I felt a strong loving male like presence. I was with someone I knew.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Episcopalian

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I now do not belong to any religion, but I believe in a life force

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am no longer afraid of death. I feel more empathy for all living things. I feel more energy emanating from all living things.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I became a little more psychic.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Before and after.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    People just think it is interesting, but I feel they don't really believe it. My children have been influenced a little by it. They don't fear death as much as most children.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Once under hypnosis.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No, it seemed fine.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1liz_s_nde.html