{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lizzette_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Lizzette T NDE 2476","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lizzette T NDE 2476  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lizzette T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						763  Lizzette T NDE  2476  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

My family lived in Fresno, California at the time and I was sent to Lancaster California to live with my aunt and uncle. During my stay there, I became ill. My parents drove to Lancaster to see about me and immediately rushed me to the hospital. While on our way to the hospital, the coughing was so severe that I continually lost and regained consciousness from not being able to take in a breath. When we arrived in the hospital parking lot, I remember the hospital staff there waiting for me with a gurney. When they placed me on the gurney and rushed me inside of the hospital, I lost consciousness and that is when I had the near death experience. What was strange is that I saw myself in a dark tunnel. It was as if I was a spectator or on looker, because I saw the back of my entire self/body standing in the tunnel facing the light. Then, I was no longer watching myself, but being myself and walking toward the light. Once I got very close to the end of the tunnel, I was a little hesitant to go further because I didn't know what was happening or what to expect, but I was not afraid.

When I got to the very edge of the tunnel, I bent over sticking my head just outside of it to see what was there. I looked up and I saw the bluest sky. I looked to the right and saw the most beautiful green grass on rolling hills. Then I looked down at the grass just outside of the tunnel and stuck one foot on top of it and it was soft and cool to the touch. Then I looked to the left.  There was someone sitting on a throne and he called me out. I came out of the tunnel and walked toward the being and I was not afraid. When I looked toward him this is what I saw. He sat upon a throne that was made of something that I've never seen before. It was solid and translucent at the same time. He wore a white garment that covered him from his neck down to his feet. His face was bright and radiating like the sun with rays extending outward. There was no face, but pure light. I could look straight into the bright light of his face and it didn't hurt my eyes.

To the left and to the right of Him stood several beings like men standing at attention. The one on the throne said to me, to my conscious/mind, that I had to go back that it was not time for me to come. Then he showed me an image or vision of myself as an adult which at that time I understood it to mean that I will have a full life. Once I understood, in an instant I was back in my body. I never spoke to anyone about this and I only thought of it as a teenager and adult on occasion. As a child I constantly thought about my and the world's existence. It sometimes frightened me that I was a living, breathing creature. I longed to know how we got here so I constantly asked questions to any adult who would answer. Also, most of my life I was able to see spirits. To dream about people's death. Also, I've had strange encounters with people while walking down the street that gave me messages about something that would take place in my life that came true, advice and just watching over me. Not until about five years ago, when I saw a Dr. Moody's documentary on television, did I understand what happened, the NDE. I ran out and got his book, then others. I also called my older sister and asked her about my illness during that time and she said that they almost lost me and I had to be resuscitated. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1955-1956  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Severe case of whooping cough.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Because everything around me was intense in every way. The light, colors, my mind, my understanding. Everything seemed brand new and alive. The beings thoughts to mine were instantaneous and without question.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Once outside of the tunnel, everything seemed to go quickly. Especially when I went back into my body.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Strikingly vivid colors only outside of the tunnel. On the other side, the only thing that had transparency was man-made or being-made objects such as the throne. Everything else was solid. The beings seemed more spiritual. There was no sun in the sky.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't recall hearing anything at all.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was dark but the light at the end sort of radiated through a little. I saw the walls of the dark tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A being of authority sat on a translucent but solid throne. There were several male beings on both sides of the throne standing at attention.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was at the end of the tunnel that grew in size as I got closer to the end.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     I saw a world that was similar to ours except it was perfect in all aspects.  not a cloud in the sky, no sun, but pure brightness.  fresh clean air, intensly green cool grass.  It seemed brand new.  Life paradise.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt like a child and I just knew to go to the end of the tunnel. I felt peace, calm, absolutely no fear.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I was only three or four so there were no past events, nor did I have any dead relatives. I now know that there is a difference between body and spirit. The body is heavy and very emotionally and mentally unbalanced all the time. I understand that our spirit and flesh are always at war with each other. The body is burdensome. In the flesh, I feel separated from God, like an orphan in a strange place. In the spirit I am at home with him.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future        I would dream about people I knew dying and they did.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     As a child no. As an adult looking back, yes. There are too many religions and too many religious views that cause people to be confused and misled. We mistakenly look to man for our answers to life. God is a spirit, so we must come to God in spirit. For now, we are separated from God although He sustains us every day. We must Love and seek God with all our hearts until we are with him again.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     As a child no. As an adult looking back, yes. There are too many religions and too many religious views that cause people to be confused and misled. We mistakenly look to man for our answers to life. God is a spirit, so we must come to God in spirit. For now, we are separated from God although He sustains us every day. We must Love and seek God with all our hearts until we are with him again.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was a small child. I had no understanding of relationships.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The beings that were present and the one Being that communicated with me. Their appearance and the substance of the structure or seat that the being in authority sat upon. It was also difficult to explain how the being spoke to me telepathically and the vision and what it meant.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I knew if someone was going to die through dreams. I often saw heard and saw spirits.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That I was in the presence of God, when I had no religious or Biblical knowledge. That God is not a particular race and that he loved me just as I am. That there is no evil, pain, sickness, worry, sadness. Only goodness, happiness, contentment, peace and love exists there.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About five years ago.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   No knowledge. I was three or four years old.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I did not think of it at all until I was older.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real to me because I could feel and smell the freshness of the air and grass. And felt the warmth of the light. I was aware, communicated and had a sense of being. I didn't feel alone once I was in the presence of the others. They acknowledged me and I them. I even felt the walls of the tunnel with my hands and feet. I felt like I was home. I don't feel like I belong here sometimes.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       God is merciful all the way to the end of carnal life. He made death painless and there is nothing to fear. We need to trust in God.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lizzette_t_nde.html