{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1liv_t_probable_fde.html","mytitle":"Liv T Probable FDE 4353","mylang":"de"}
          	        Liv T Probable FDE 4353  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Liv T Probable FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable FDE  			2156 Liv T Probable FDE 4353  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was leaving my mother's home and stopped to get gas. As I left the station, there was a stop light and I had a stop. I was relaxed and not anxious to get on the road so I was not really paying attention to what was behind me. I sat for a minute at the light, and then felt a huge impact from behind me. I was pushed into the middle of the highway and into the opposite lane as well. My back just tightened up and I was very afraid as I watched oncoming traffic coming at me and the fear of being hit from the front side. My driver door was on that side, it was a very frightening scene in my head. But in all this I noticed a tow-truck go around me and he stopped ahead in the next street. I thought, 'oh good, he is going to help me get out of harms way.' He got out the truck and walked around his truck then got back in. I saw him very clearly. I was angry and at the same time still very fearful.  Cars were still coming at me. 

I left my body. I feel a rush of what was like air going through my mind. It was about for thirty or forty seconds. Then a car pulled up right next to me and stopped at my car door. He said, 'Get out and I will stop the other cars.' I got out and stood on the side of the road, thinking, 'What the heck happened?' I was driving a small Mitsubishi car and was hit by a huge tow-truck.  How was I able to walk and talk? I looked to see the man who was in the car that shielded me from the oncoming cars and enable me to get out of my car without being hit. But there was no one.  

The next thing I knew, a police officer drove up beside me and took my statements as to how I was rear-end etc. I told him someone helped me.  He asked where the man was and if he could get his statement. He saw no one either. I said I could identify the tow-truck.  He put a call in and had me move my vehicle. Then he said, 'They have been looking for a tow-truck in the area that was involved in thefts, would you please come with me to identify it?' I said, 'Yes' and we drove to the criminal's house. I had a perfect description of the man because I saw him so well when he got out to walk around his truck.  

Later they found the truck hidden in the garage.  They knew he had been driving it because of the warmth of the engine, and arrested the man. I called my mother on a cell phone to say where my car was and my father came and got me. I would have never seen what the guy looked like if he hadn't got out. I was very aware at that time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As this was such a pivotal point of my accident when I felt the back pain so strongly and my legs pushed into the transmission my fear was to how my body would be to do my work. (I am a massage therapist as well as owning a Holistic business and work as a Spiritual Intuitive.) And as my car in a different town from where I live, I didn't think I could have moved, but nothing wrong but fear. As I was out of my body I felt this beautiful Angel presence, a warmth and calming feeling come into, over, me just surrounded me. I was able to recall when EMDR was done on me two months later because I was left with panic attacks. I heard the most beautiful voice when I was out of my body 'Your name is Liv not Di.' Simple and funny I know that was my Angel's way of reassurance as I had things to do still and they sent the man in the car to shield me, as well as allowing me to walk and talk and see the criminal that hit so he could be stopped. I know The Angels are humorous and loving and they have guided me throughout my life and they tell me always to keep things Light.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I never felt so loved and PROTECTED, felt like forever.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Absolutely LOUD.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It felt as I sensed surrounded by wind tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Angels.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I WAS NOT IN MY BODY BUT FELT AS IF i WAS LIFTED AWAY IN THE CLOUDS

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       CALMING.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I am always able to connect with Angelic realms.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Spiritualist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritualist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        ALL.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My mother explained she had a heart attack at thirty-seven was in a hospital bed and they pronounced her dead, she knew she was and felt ashamed she didn't want to return to her family then she saw a veil float over her bed. Woke up later and didn't' tell of it until years late.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1liv_t_probable_fde.html