{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisette_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisette D NDE 4206","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisette D NDE 4206  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisette D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2051 Lisette D NDE 4206  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					A friend and I were hitch-hiking to Ste-Adèle from Victoriaville. We'd been dropped-off opposite a subway stop along Highway 132, which we had to cross. My friend told me to run fast and I told myself I wouldn't run. I stepped onto the roadway and was hit by a speeding car. I remember seeing the face of the man who was driving.  He had blue eyes. Then, I felt myself lift up into the air as though I'd taken a giant leap. There was a butterfly flying nearby and since I love butterflies, I was looking at it and laughing because I felt an indescribable sense of well-being. There was a voice talking to me and we laughed so much together, a real blast. I didn't look down, the presence prevented me and I wasn't aware of what was going on down there, my friend told me everything.

What happened next is really unbelievable and really no one else has told about an NDE like mine. I've done a lot of research and I'm obsessed by it, the memory is still vivid even though it's been nearly thirty years since it happened. I felt euphoric then suddenly the images, the butterfly, everything changed. Gradually, the colors disappeared I was seeing in black and white and then the images disappeared. There weren't any more images, just sounds. I didn't feel as though I was in a tunnel, I was following the presence who was with me, with unconditional trust and we laughed and talked a lot. Then we were approaching a group of presences because I could hear many voices. I heard, 'What's SHE doing here? She mustn't go on; she has to be sent back.' And another very authoritative voice said that it wasn't my time and that I had to go back now, it's urgent. There was a countdown. The presence accompanied me.  That's what gave me the impression of having jumped into the air. I came back with my body running next to my friend who was covering his face with both hands and crying.

I took his hands from his face saying, 'COUCOU,' and he told me what had happened. How could I not be hurt after being hit and bloodied under the car. I looked at the car, which must have been a hundred feet away, and I could see the driver looking for me under his car. I felt so awful knowing that so I said I couldn't understand anything and that we had to go catch the subway. We took off running and we didn't talk any more about it. A few days later, we were back in our hometown and my friend read in the Journal de Montreal that we were being sought by the police because there had been a collision without a body and the driver was in trouble. We had to see them to say I was okay. I wasn't able to go, I was afraid of having to tell my story and be thought insane. My friend went, and he was happy to have done it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 1972
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other J'étais piéton et une voiture m'a happée en traversant l'autoroute. L'ami qui m'attendait l'autre côté m'a dit que j'étais défaite en sang sous la voiture.  Hit by a speeding car.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       None.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The leap that I had the impression of making was impossible because there are eight lanes and I couldn't have crossed eight lanes of highway in one leap.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No images. No light.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I heard their voices without seeing them nor recognizing their voices.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Well-being - intense joy - love and unconditional trust.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned that death no longer frightens me. I've very afraid of feeling pain.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I reached a gate and the guards prevented me from passing.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It's amplified, I believe in God even more strongly year after year.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It's amplified, I believe in God even more strongly year after year.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   What it is to die.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Depressed, which distances me from friends.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Surreal.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I foresee dangerous events before they happen and that's protected me on more than one occasion.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        How could it be that I wasn't hurt when I caught up with my friend, the car was dented and full of blood? It bothers me and I don't understand.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About twenty-five years before I could talk about it. The reaction ranged from indifference to people marveling at it. But I asked not to talk about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Totally real after nearly thirty years.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Real. I remember it like it was yesterday.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Has anyone else gone through anything like my NDE? I'd really like to know.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisette_d_nde.html