{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_s_nde_7945.html","mytitle":"Lisa S NDE 7945","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa S NDE 7945  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4117 Lisa S NDE 7945  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been visiting family, up late, having gone to bed around 12:30 a.m.  I woke up almost 2 hours later having horrible leg cramps.  I got up to walk around, glanced at the clock and it was 2:22 a.m.  The next thing I remember was laying on the floor, face up, trying to open my eyes and focus on what was around me.  When I tried to move I felt a horrible pain in the back of my head, where obviously I had fallen and hit the back of my head.  What happened from there, I have no memory of, until life came back into my body.  My daughter said she heard me fall, climbed out of bed to find me on the floor.  She said she got me up, into the bathroom and was holding my face, trying to get me to understand and focus on her.  I never did.  She ran out of the bathroom, yelled to my other daughter to get help, saying something is wrong with mom.  When she left me alone in the bathroom, I fell again, hitting the counter top with my arm and falling against the bathroom door causing it to slam shut and I was up against it where they couldn't get in.  Again, this is all from what I was told.  I don't remember any of that.

The next thing I remember, clear as day, was a bright light surrounding me.  It was bright from every direction. I saw the light, and heard a voice (couldn't tell you if it was male or female) and all it said was 'It's not your time'.  At that very second, a HUGE breath came back into my body, I gasped and found myself, head hanging down, in the corner of the bathroom, up against the door.  I was sweating profusely, and had even lost control of all bodily functions.  When I came to, it was like nothing ever happened.  I was completely conscious, able to function, cleaned the bathroom and even showered.

I believe, for as short of a time it may have been, I may have died.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  3.29.16

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes       Direct head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   My blood sugar dropped extremely low.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Everything seemed very clear.  I knew exactly what I had to do to take care of the situation that had just happened (cleaning the bathroom, taking a shower…)

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately after the breath gasped back into my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It wasn't a tunnel of light, or a light to follow.  I was completely surrounded in white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Nothing.  I have no memory of it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more definite that there is more after this life.  God is there for us.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Stronger beliefs and appreciate more of my life than ever.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I do not know if it was male or female, I just heard the words 'It's not your time'.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Again, just by the fact that there was someone there.  Even if I had died, I truly believe the person was there to guide me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I believe so, because if I was being told 'It's not your time', then obviously there IS a proper time; and there was someone there speaking to me.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     It has only been a week since my experience, but I see things differently.  I am not taking anything for granted and becoming upset over little things seems so worthless.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm not taking one second of my life for granted nor am I ever going to let my loved ones not hear 'I love you' every day.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I remember everything after the experience so vividly.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing that someone was actually there for me, showed me there was more than just this life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mom and daughter discussed everything that went on while I was unconscious. 3 days later, when I saw my husband upon returning home, I talked with him.  My husband is so supportive and understanding.  I'm not sure that my mom understands or believes what I truly believe happened. My daughter does not want to talk about it right now.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of it from things like movies that depict children dying and going to heaven and coming back.  Things like that.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It definitely happened.  I have not one doubt in my mind.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My belief has not changed.  This definitely happened and was 100% real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_s_nde_7945.html