{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisa R NDE 77","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa R NDE 77  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa R NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1488 Lisa R NDE 77  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					There was darkness but I was in a light and the light was warm, loving, and peaceful. It was God's light. I mean that is what he is.  My soul was in his soul, light, or something like that.  It was so wonderful I didn't want to leave but someone said I had to go back. I could hear my mum saying, "Don't you leave us! Lisa don't you leave us!"  At times, I would come to and open my eyes.  I would see my mum by my side, but then I would be back there in God's light. After I finely came back, I was so angry because I wanted to stay because it was so peaceful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Suicide attempt    Life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I know I wasn't in body form. I could tell it was my soul somehow.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Very good. I was in and out of consciousness.  I was very alert because a nurse came in and kept asking me if I knew where I was, the date, and the day. I always knew.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no sense of time. I felt like I was there for a long time but it was only a short time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Just my mum saying, ''Don't leave us.'' Later, I found out she wasn't saying it, she was thinking it.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Not sure because the person who said I had to go back was different. I don't know why but I know I was told by someone else.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was God and I was in the light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, at peace, warm, happy, calm, etc…..

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Not at the time but afterwards. God made me see that if I want to be at peace that I needed to change things in my life.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     God is compassionate.  He didn't think I was bad for trying to kill myself . He understood my pain and helped me find peace in life, instead of in death.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No     I sensed that it was the finest place, but I couldn't go there.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was led to believe that killing your self was a sin and bad. But God was understanding and could feel my pain. I think if I was to try it again, God would keep me there. I don't know why but he would. but he knows I won't because he showed me how to be at peace here on earth.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was like seeing without eyes; hearing without sound; and speaking without mouth or words.  No real words to describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I could see or sense things.  He was letting me know of what I had to do to be at peace here on earth.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best was being in his light. The worst was being sent back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some people believe me.  Some say they believe but I don't think they really do. I think they find it hard to come to terms with what I experienced because they have no frame of reference to compare it to on earth.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There are so many things I can't put into to words to describe the experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       not sure?    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_r_nde.html