{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisa S NDE 1071","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa S NDE 1071  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						550  Lisa S NDE  1071  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had overdosed on heroin. My friends couldn't revive me, had rushed me to the hospital, dumped me on the receptionist's desk, and disappeared. I don't remember any of this. I was clinically dead (DOA - dead on arrival) with no heart beat or respiration. I was taken in and worked on.


My sense of 'being' was of rushing throughout the hospital halls at great speed. Someone was with me (hair rises while I type about it) and this person or thing had a great urgent 'hurry up' type attitude and was trying to get me to hurry. I couldn't figure it out. We got into the room where I was at (through a wall) and the person was holding my hand. I remember them (but can't see them, can only feel the hand) urging me to see what was going on (I was in no hurry or had no inkling or need to look), I finally did. I was absolutely horrified!


In a flash I realized I was dead, that was me on the table, I seen the three people around me working rapidly on me with some serious urgency. I was so scared that I literally 'jumped' back into my skin. Since then I have never understood the term 'jumping out of your skin' since I had the reverse thing happen to me. I was scared back into my skin. At this point, I heard the doctors telling me they needed me to wake up, I heard yelling, and I sat up. The doctor told me how lucky I was that I finally responded.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    February 5, 2000

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death Overdose.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was separate because when I saw my body, I hadn't even realized I was out of my body until I saw it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was alert sometime after I got to the hospital. But I didn't come to awareness in the emergency room, it was somewhere else in the hospital that I became aware and was rushing down the halls with that other person.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    There was an unusual silence.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I have tried to remember ever since. I feel the hand but I don't 'see' the person when I try to remember. I see everything else I described, but physically I see the hospital wall to my left, not a person. I know there was a person there. It frustrates me that I can't see them. It's almost like it is meant to be that I can't see that person.

The experience included:      Void

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I feel like I was in a different layer when I was viewing my body.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I had highly acute senses for a couple of days after that. I remember some communication with the person. It was telepathy. When asked a question it was answered simultaneously when I first thought the question. I can't remember the question I asked though. I do remember being amazed at the concept of questions being answered at the exact same time asked. Totally at the same time. If I even began to think of a question, it would be answered.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     For a flash before I jumped back into my body and was revived, I only remember standing there being so horrifically sad that I had ended my life with the use of drugs.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I can't remember. It is so frustrating because I know I have forgotten so much. I just know that when I die that I am only using a very small amount of the senses a person actually has.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was scared and was given a choice I suppose. The person who took me to my body was attempting to take a person who wasn't in any big hurry to get back to my body that is for sure.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Christian (though fallen)

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I currently look into anything that I want to when before I felt obligated to stick to Christian beliefs. I am more into Nature based spirituality, and have a strong belief in a God type out there

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I quit doing drugs. I know that there is life after death and feel this is only a small part and don't understand why we go through life on earth. My choices of spirituality have become more open. I have sought help from addiction outside of a Christian belief Church without guilt. I believe there is a God, but not necessarily a Christian God. It freed me to get help from my addiction.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The special knowledge is hard to explain. There is nothing earthly or words to explain the senses I had. There was some telepathy, and my senses were acute for a few days afterwards.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Lucid dreaming now is pretty easy.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was rushing through the hospital, (kind of fun). Another good part was the realization that I just won't expire and be nothing when I die. I don't believe in nothingness anymore. The worst part is not being able to remember it all and the person being blocked from my memory and the inability to describe the senses that I was aware of. The lack of words or ability to compare it with something else to make myself understood. There is nothing like this to compare it to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They believe me; I don't share it with everyone. I do share it with drug addicts because I feel I need to let other people know that there is a way out of addiction. I feel the need to help others. I feel the need to make my life a worthy cause.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I feel lucky.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_s_nde.html