{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_s_nde_7817.html","mytitle":"Lisa S NDE 7817","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa S NDE 7817  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4039 Lisa S NDE 7817  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't know where to start or how to even describe this event. I have memory loss due to this tragedy, as I rarely remember my childhood. I was between ages 4 and 6 around the mid 1990's.  Almost every single kid on my block had those popular PlaySkool cars. I grew up living in a poverty life due to my parents migrating to the U.S. to escape the Vietnam war. We didn't have much besides a roof over our heads, clothes on our backs and food to feed us throughout our lives. The neighbors' kids invited my siblings and I over to play with their new PlaySkool car that they knew I wanted to play with. We were having fun, pushing each other on these cars but it wasn't my turn just yet. I complained to my oldest brother that I haven't got the chance to ride inside the car and I wanted to do it really bad. 

The sidewalk had one cement block of a sidewalk that was on it's side.  It was lifted up to a incline, possibly from an earthquake that created it. The cement block opposite also had an incline that meets with the other one. It created a mini-hill for tiny people or ants. I hope I described that well because that was hard to even explain. My older brother and neighbor were in the two-seater PlaySkool car.  I was whining and complaining. My oldest brother was pushing them in this car on the sidewalk. He told me to just get on top of the roof of the car, so I got on top. We were kids and I didn't know any better.  I didn't think anything was going to happen, but it did. He's pushing the car as fast as he could until he realized that he couldn't stop it.  He let go and realized that we were heading for the sidewalk bump. Next thing I heard was sirens coming. I don't know what happened in between but the next thing I see is my lifeless body on the surgical table surrounded by three surgeons. I saw my family in the surgery window crying. I'm not in my body but instead, I'm floating above everyone and I see this and can describe it without a doubt. The next thing that happens is a bright, white light appearing on the side of me. I see hands and they come out but I do not see a face. I see a beard but the face isn't there. I hear a man's voice come out of this, an angel. He tells me, 'Lisa, it's not your time to go.  Look at your family, they need you. You have greater purpose in this lifetime and you will succeed in that purpose. You need to go back.' I don't remember if I spoke to the angel but I, indeed, went back to my body and my family and my life. 

Next thing I remember is wearing a bandage around my head and my grandmother pushing me on a swing. Unfortunately, due to this tragic accident, I have bad memory loss. I don't remember my childhood entirely and the only parts of my childhood that I can remember are the bad parts, parts that I wish to not relive. I also think a little differently than I used to, I suppose, and sometimes I don't feel like myself. Honestly, I can't even tell you how I was as a child.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  N/A

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident.     Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I have memory loss from the accident so I don't know.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Memory loss due to event.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I'm more aware of things and take things seriously, I guess. I see things the way people normally do not.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know due to my memory loss but I guess you can say when the angel appeared, that's when I was at my highest level, I guess.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     N/A

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    N/A

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my family (alive) behind the surgery window but I do not know how the surgery room looks like in reality, so I might have just thought they were there.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a bright white light, which appeared beside me as I was floating above my body and the rest of the people.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Emotionless.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   The man's voice told me that it wasn't my time and I had greater purpose in life waiting in my future.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I wouldn't say Christian - Catholic but just Catholic. I really don't know much about religion by choice.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I wouldn't know how to describe it but I do believe in a high power just not the religions currently circulating the world.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I'm not sure if it changed my beliefs as a child but growing up and learning about life has changed my beliefs.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I don't know if it was God himself but it sure was my angel to tell me that it wasn't my time to go. All I saw was the bright white light, his hands, a beard and the man's voice. I still remember the voice today.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Like I said, the man that appeared could've been any one. I consider him my guardian angel.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No     I dream about myself looking in the mirror and it is me but I'm a completely different person.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     BRIGHT WHITE LIGHT with a being coming out of it.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     An angel came to me in a bright white light...I don't know how else to describe it or even explain. If he told me it wasn't my time then a supreme being definitely exist.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   He told me I had a greater purpose in life. I'm still trying to figure out what the purpose is.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Memory loss is a bad thing.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Memory loss.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  This has always stuck by me, especially when he told me that I have a greater purpose in life. It's hard for me to remember daily things in life but I definitely can tell this story exactly the way I remember it as much as I remembered.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm more intertwined with the spiritual side of the world. I can hear, see and feel spirits around me. I don't have any knowledge of this while I was a child but I do know it started after the accident.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When he told me I have a greater purpose in life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I never really shared this experience with any one besides my significant other. I told him about three months into the relationship and this is years after the accident.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Honestly, I don't even think I was thinking about the experience after the accident, I'm trying my best to remember how I remembered it, but I just can't.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     When I was about 13, I had a dream of a man coming into my dreams to tell me I had a greater purpose in life and for me to enjoy my life the way it is because it will mean something one day. I think that's how I remembered my experience, but unfortunately, due to my memory loss, I can't verify it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Every day of my life is a reminder. My mind races at 200 mph so there are things I think about and things I randomly remember.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Memory loss is a horrible result of this accident.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_s_nde_7817.html