{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_t_ndes.html","mytitle":"Lisa T NDEs 6988","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa T NDEs 6988  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa T NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDEs  			3519 Lisa T NDEs 6988  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Lisa's Book - https://www.smashwords.com/books/view/377816

The first NDE was totally unexpected, it was a beautiful day and I was feeling well. It was an event that took place without any warning, when I felt an eerie feeling I cried out to Jesus to save me. When my head hit the floor, I felt an intense pain in my head.

Suddenly, my spirit left my body and floated up into the rafters of the old farmhouse. From there it went to the next level where I was lovingly embraced into this beautiful golden amber light, I felt totally protected, loved, and I became one with the Light: totally and completely. There are really no words to express the intense and complete love I felt. When my Spirit re-entered my body there was no one around, it was as though the Lord breathed Life back into me. The difficult part was not having anyone at such an age to share this with. No one would have understood it; this was something I had to put in the back of my mind. It was sacred and it was Holy. To this day, I still struggle in sharing all three of my stories to a degree, because unless one goes through it, it is difficult to express the depths of love one receives. When I came-to after my first experience, I was sad that I was back here on earth. I struggled with that, I was never told I would be coming back, but like the event itself, it was done without warning. 

The other two NDE's made me aware of the fact that Life and Death is more than precious, death can come without ANY warning, that we need to be ready, at any time. It has also helped me in the grieving process when I lost my dad, and other members of my family or friends that I have loved. It is a reassurance that there is so much more waiting for them. I was ten years old and suffered from a sudden death episode. My head hit the floor and I felt the pain of the impact. Instantly my spirit lifted out of my body and up into the old rafters of the farm house, for what was a very short time. 

Then I began being lifted up into this glorious golden light, it was like a golden/amber colored bubble of pure love, no pain, joy, peace, happiness, contentment.  I had no thoughts of what had taken place.  I was totally embraced in what I believe was the arms of the living God.  I became one with Him.  Every thought was telepathic, I had never felt such an intense love, then as a leaf falls from a tree, I began to look down, and when I did, my spirit began to re-enter my body and what has been 41 years of discomfort.  Being only ten, I tried my best to understand what took place, but I had no one with whom to share my story. It would become my sacred secret.  I was afraid that if I had shared my story, I would be called crazy; so I remained quiet.  

What I didn’t know at the time was when my head hit the floor I had cracked the back of my skull: this was later confirmed by x-rays. The second life and death experience took place in California in 1982, at that time I was 19 years old.  I had moved to California, hoping to start a new beginning from the previous 19 years.  One hot summer day, some family and friends decided to go behind one of the homes where there was a river.  It was quite cold and very deep.  I did not know how to swim, I had never been taught.  But my friends had been life guards and had reassured me that they would be nearby if I needed any help.  I jumped into the frigid waters, not understanding that I should not have swallowed water.  I managed to get to the top twice, on the third attempt I suddenly saw what appeared before my eyes as an old movie screen of my life being played out: from the very day of my birth, all the way to what would have been my funeral.  As I watched my family crying, I cried out, ‘No! No!’  Instantly, I was lifted up out of the water and brought to shore, where everyone was quite concerned.  I never told anyone what I had seen, but was told I had jumped into a current and went quite a long distance before they could get to me. 

The third NDE took place in Florida. I was now a wife and mother and was having a medical procedure called an angiogram, which needed to be performed.  I was quite concerned about the test.  (My Dad had died from the same procedure many years earlier.)  I asked the doctors if there was any other test that could be done, instead, to receive their answers.  The answer was ‘no’.  The day of the test was one filled with anxiety for me, and I was constantly being reassured that I would be fine and they do this all the time, as I was in a Heart Center.  As the procedure began, I moaned with the discomfort I was feeling, as I continued to pray silently.  I suddenly recognized that everything went pitch black.  I felt no pain whatsoever.  I was wondering what was taking place.  

In seconds, I could hear the voices in the surgical unit where I felt my spirit lifted higher and higher until it popped out of my body and lifted up into the ceiling.  I could see the room filled with doctors and nurses.  My gown was torn off my body.  Another female nurse came quickly to the side of the bed with a large bowl of iodine and a sponge and began to start rubbing my chest down, while another large man was on top of my body with his hands hitting my chest.  Then he began pressing down on it.  None of it hurt and I was amused by everything I was seeing. I realized that they were about to cut open my chest, once I realized that, I thought, ‘Wow, recovery is really going to hurt!’  I didn't more than think that, when I heard an audible voice, ‘Lisa, open your eyes!’  This was repeated three times, when I was finally able to open my eyes.  

I was told by the medical staff that I went into V-tach and coded. [Editor’s Note: V-tach is a rapid heartbeat of more than 100 beats per minutes.]  The procedure that was only to take an hour, took several hours.  It was aborted, giving us no answers.  In the 41 years since I had my first NDE, I have felt strongly that love is truly the greatest gift we can give to one another as well as receive: to embrace life.

Background Information:

Date NDE Occurred:	  '1972, 1982, 2002'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         At the age of ten I had no previous diagnosis of any medical condition. It would take several years before we would learn this.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  During my First NDE I was totally one with this Brilliant Light of Love. This Light, I felt, was God the Father Almighty, being embraced into Him, I became One with Him. You have no need to speak, because you already know the thoughts. When I came back, it was difficult to express myself. Also, I had other things that began to take place afterwards: heavenly dreams, as well as open visions, where I would be in one place spiritually but somewhere else physically.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Immediately after, as I have shared before, this life is like living in a world that is Black and White, verses when your heart has stopped and you’re in the Spiritual realm, where everything is so much more vivid, alive, beautiful, and pure. When one comes back, it's like the NDE is the clearest moment one endures, we can recall all of it, unlike our daily walk. It is difficult to explain how ‘alive’ one is when they are so called dead. But in truth we are ‘more alive then’ than what we are here and now. The emotion, feelings, sounds, smells everything is much more INTENSE: it is ALIVE!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was absolutely no TIME. It was as if time stood still.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everyday life is like living in light pastel colors, while if we were to take a look at a color wheel, we would see every color and then more. Like waking up on a cloudy gloomy day, compared to a bright sunny day.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing, during these events, was also very intense, NOT loud but CLEARER. In the everyday arena, it's like I have to repeat what was said. Not during a NDE event. It is 100% clear without any questions.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     If I went through a tunnel, I would not have described it as such, as everything was instantly bright so I didn't see a tunnel, I was instantly with the Father.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A Beautifully Brilliant Golden/Amber light. The color also reflected the intensity of the pure Love within I was embraced. I have never seen such a color here on earth.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It was definitely not earth, but to say it was mystical or strange would be incorrect; to me it felt like a place I had known and I was very much at peace with that.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Pure Love, happiness, joy, peace, contentment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I became more aware of other things, in which prior, I did not have much interest, I was now, more captivated. (With the previous: question 26. I felt in Harmony, but it was not of this World, nor did it really have anything to do with any form of conflict to nature.)

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     In the Dream State, and some of those things have taken place.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   All three of my NDE's were sudden and that seemed to be the way I returned back to my body as well.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I wish to be more pleasing before the Lord and do more for others.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I KNEW THAT THERE WAS A GOD, BUT I HAD NO IDEA HOW HE WOULD LOVE ME, SO COMPLETELY, TO BE TOTALLY ONE WITH HIM, REGARDLESS OF MY PASTS, HE IS TOTAL AND PURE LOVE.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Because I was only ten years old during my first NDE I would say that my Life changed early on in my life. I realized that there is a Higher Authority and that Life can be taken quickly.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   This Brilliant Golden/Amber Light was ALIVE, I was embraced into this Light which held me deeply, and I became one with the Light. It was Pure Love, just Glorious!

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   The Heavenly Father and the Son are One. So Jesus was definitely the One who embraced me, with the Power of the Father as well as the intense comfort of the Holy Spirit. I never saw anything else, but the LIGHT and I knew WHO the Light was.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     To LOVE everyone, Love is the Greatest Gift of All. Prior to my NDE's I did not understand the POWER of LOVE, Now I have a better understanding.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I don't believe in the word mystical, but HEAVENLY Yes.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Truly there is a God who loves deeply, when I was embraced, I could feel as though I was in a Mothers Arms, but the intensity was a Million times stronger so much more intense, complete and total LOVE.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I was to Love as He Loved me; when I was embraced into Him, it was with all my faults and errors: HE STILL LOVED ME.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     To Love and to Accept Others. To be more understanding of the Needs and desires of others, to do what I can in the lives of others regardless of where they live or what they do. TO love unconditionally.    This was another thing that took place after my N

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     The very fact that I went through this Three times tells me that there is Life after Death, there is so much more that is waiting us.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Every thing we say, think and do is seen and known by the Lord. He knows our every thought before it even comes to our mind.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Through Faith and HOPE that all we endure here will one day end. As we live our Lives to Please the Lord we will also Inherit the Kingdom of Heaven and be with Him for all Eternity.    This was another thing that I became aware of after my NDE's

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     "Embrace Others as I have embraced You."    This was something that was given to me years later.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I do feel that my dreams are often a form of communications the Lord is having with me, whether it is about a warning or things to come or embracing me to give me strength.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes More understanding and compassionate.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Because I have had three different NDE'S it is harder to express how they have all varied. But the last NDE was hard to come back, because: once is hard, twice is difficult but to go through the NDE three times, I felt very alone, very puzzled as to WHY I was STILL here. I recalled asking in prayer, ‘Wasn't I good enough?’ Of course, I have come to realize that I have more work to do: Sharing my stories is part of it. To give HOPE to those who do not understand nor believe that there is Life after Death and to encourage others.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I can recall the events of my NDE's more so than the events of my wedding, births of my children and other events such as a loss of a sibling, or loved ones.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Every once in a while I can sense when something isn't right, or will have a dream that comes to pass. This I do not recall having, prior to my experiences.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The INTENSE Love I felt during the first NDE and the feeling of ‘WHY AM I STILL HERE’, after the Third. It is extremely difficult going through these events and walking in a world that is truly Black and White, where there is such violence and hate, compared to Love and Joy. Unless one ends up in hell: which I never witnessed.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It is now being written in a book: ‘My Sacred Secrets, My journeys through Life and Death’; as well as family, friends.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt I had gone through the most powerful thing, and not able to share it with another living soul, it was extremely difficult. Also I had suffered a cracked skull from the fall, and was most likely recovering from those symptoms.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There was no doubt I had been in the arms of the Lord, what I saw and felt I still feel today.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_t_ndes.html