{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_s_nde_8107.html","mytitle":"Lisa S NDE 8107","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa S NDE 8107  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4223 Lisa S NDE 8107  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was having my third and last child.  I went in the office for the pre-operation consultation. The baby's heartbeat was racing and I had a fever with elevated blood pressure. So an early C-section was to be done. This would be my third C-section, so I was familiar with how surgery proceeds. I was ready for my epidural and was hooked up to the blood pressure machine and other monitoring. The needle was placed in my spine with no issues.  The anesthesiologist administered the drug into the spinal line.  I slowly became numb from the chest down. Since having my other two children by C-section, with epidurals, and no issues, I did not expect anything weird to happen with this one. The anesthesiologist was at the head of my bed and my husband was standing next to me in the bed. 
 
 We were talking and then very suddenly I was in the corner of the hospital room looking down on myself. I could not hear what was being said or what they were doing, but I could say my husband was next to a couch by the window and looking as white as a ghost. I was aware that there was a presence on both sides of me but they did not say anything. It seemed like a few minutes that I watched.  But in reality, as I found out later, it was more like a minute or less. As suddenly as I left my body, I was back into my body. 
 
 I was disoriented.  When I opened, my eyes there were nurses around my bed and the anesthesiologist was doing something in a large case of some kind. I asked my husband, why did you leave me? He said the nurse pushed him away from the bed and the nurses started taking vitals. I asked what happened, and was told that I had an allergic reaction to a drug they had given me. This reaction caused me to lose blood pressure and pass out. It was a very brief event and I didn't rise above anywhere else except that room. The experience is as clear today as it was back then.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2/11/94

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Childbirth. Allergic Reaction.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt like I was in a better place when I was looking down. I did not know why I was in the corner of the room but it did not matter.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the corner of the room looking down

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     About the same

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    About the same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm. Secure. Happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was a Lutheran, although not a practicing Lutheran.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't believe someone has to be religious or be involved in religion.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic   I now consider myself Agnostic. My brief experience had nothing in it to indicate there is a supreme being and as I have gotten older and more informed I have become an Agnostic in my beliefs.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe there is an afterlife for all humans but it has nothing to do with being religious or believing in a GOD.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt the presence of something or someone on both sides of me but did not see them.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I do not believe a one GOD exists...possibly the afterlife has nothing to do with religion or GODS

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my husband right after it happened. I started to share with others when the opportunity came up about 10 years ago. Some people hear the story but don't seem too interested. Others are very interested.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real from the day it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's just as real today. It's a bright positive experience for me that never fades.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_s_nde_8107.html