{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_r_nde_9456.html","mytitle":"Lisa R NDE 9456","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa R NDE 9456  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5082 Lisa R NDE 9456  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  In July of 2019 I was in a car accident. A relative and me were on our way to spend a few days in upstate NY. We were about halfway to our destination when another car hit us from behind, and my relative lost control of the car. Our car flew across 2 lanes of traffic and crashed head on  into the concrete barrier on the highway going 65 mph. The last thing I remember was the car was about to crash into the concrete barrier and thinking we were going to die.       

            Suddenly I was no longer in the car. I was in a black void. Everything -the walls, the ceiling, the floor was a mix of a blackish-grey color and there was this really bright light behind the walls and ceiling that looked as if it was going to burst through at any moment. I have never seen anything like it. It is very hard to describe.  I was all alone and it was so quiet I could have heard a pin drop. It seems like I was there for a very long time waiting. I began to wonder where I was and how did I get here. I look around, but there doesn’t seem to be a way out, and there wasn’t anyone there to ask. I realize that I don’t have a body.  I don’t know how, but I just seem to  be floating in midair.  I am not scared. I am mostly just curious to find out where I am. I can see some movement in the distance. I can see a group of people in the far distance coming closer to me. When they get closer, I realize that they are angels.              

             Suddenly I am surrounded by at least a dozen angels. They are very short - maybe four feet tall and slender. They all have black shoulder length hair and brown eyes. They are all wearing different colored gowns - some blue, red, pink, yellow, green, etc. Their faces are full of light. They  stare at me. They look very stern. I would have been terrified except their eyes were very kind and loving. We are able to communicate with each other without talking. They are able to read my thoughts and answer my questions before I even finish a thought.  I am able to also partially read their mind when they answer my questions but only what they let me see. I didn’t  think at the time that it was strange that I can communicate telepathically with them. It seemed perfectly natural. Only one angel talks to me. He seems to be in charge. The rest of the angels just look kindly at me with love in their eyes. 

Suddenly I remember that I was in a car accident. I panic and wonder if I am dead. The angel tells me that I am not dead. He tells me not to be afraid. They are here to protect and take care of me. I am safe as long as I am with them, and they won’t let anything bad happen to me. I can feel all of my anxiety completely melt away. I suddenly feel very safe, secure, and completely loved. I don’t have a care in the world. I  just feel so peaceful and happy that I wouldn’t mind staying there forever. I ask the angel why I am here. We talk about the accident.  I tell him that the car crashed into the barrier and ask him if I am going to die. He tells me that it hasn’t been decided yet and that’s why I’m here. This is a waiting area. He turns and walks away a few feet. He looks up at someone I can’t see and begins talking to them, but I can’t hear what he is saying. He talks for a long time and occasionally pauses 3 or 4 times to turn around and look at me for a moment, before continuing his conversation. Meanwhile one of the other angels stands next to me and talks to me while this is going on. He tells me the first angel was talking to God about my situation. It hadn’t been decided if I was to remain here or go back.  He tells me not to worry. As long as I am here, I am safe. The angels will protect me and take care of me. 

If I have to go back, I shouldn’t worry. The angels are always with me and would always protect and help me even if I can’t see them. I could talk to them and ask for help anytime. When I asked him if I could stay here with them, he told me that it wasn’t up to the angels to decide this. “It was up to “Him” he said pointing at someone I couldn’t see. “We must always do what he wants, because he knows what’s best for us.”   I tell him that it feels like time has stopped and that I have been here for a very long time. The angel tells me that I am currently outside of time. When I ask him what he means, he tells me that the angels had to slow down time in order to save me. When I give him a look and ask him if he can do this, he nods and tells me that the angels can control time, temporarily slowing it down or speeding it up in order to do their job. He tells me that there is no time where we are, but if I go back only a short time will have passed since the accident. The first angel comes back and tells me that it has been decided that I can’t stay here but have to go back.    

                                     I suddenly find myself back in the car. The paramedic is standing over me. He tells me that I was in an accident. He asks me how I feel and if I am in any pain. Then he puts me in the ambulance.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 2019  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was in a car accident. The car crashed head on into a concrete barrier on the highway going 65 mph.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was super alert. All of my senses were heightened. My thoughts were Faster than usual. I was able to communicate with the angels telepathically.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I left my body and was with the angels  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     When I was in the car right before the crash, it seemed like time slowed down to a crawl. It seemed like hours passed between from when the other car hit us and the car crashed into the barrier even though it couldn’t have been more than one or two minutes at the most. When I left my body and went to the other place with the angels, time seemed to stop. I instinctively knew that time didn’t exist there. It seemed like I was there for a long time. When I returned here, I thought that  many years had passed, but  only 15-20 minutes had passed since the accident.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was more vivid. All of the colors were More vivid than usual. I saw everything in great detail. When I wanted to see something, I could zoom in like you do with a camera and see everything up close and  in the greatest detail instantly just by thinking about it. I could even see things at a distance up close and in great detail from where I was. I didn’t have to move any closer.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My sense of hearing was also heightened. I was able to hear everything crystal clear.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a bright white light that completely surrounded the area I was in.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I was in a black void. The walls, ceiling and floor was a mix of a black and grey color. There was a bright light shining behind the walls and ceiling that looked like it was going to burst through any minute. The angels told me it was some kind of waiting area.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt incredible calmness and peace. I felt very secure. I felt complete and unconditional love and acceptance. I felt Incredible joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  I asked the angels if I could stay there with them.  When I was with them, I felt a strong sense of inner peace, unconditional love, and Happiness. I wanted to stay there with them forever. One of the angels told me that it wasn’t up to me or to them to decide if I was allowed to stay there or if I had to return. He told me that it was up to God to decide. We had to do what God wants us to, because he knows what is best for us. I saw one of the angels having a conversation with God even though I couldn’t see him. He was looking up and speaking to someone I couldn’t see. Another angel told me the first angel was talking to God about my situation. After a while, the first angel came back and told me that it had been decided that I had to return to this life.  Then I found myself back in the car.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believe that God exists, and there is an afterlife. I also believe that the angels help us and protect us. So, it is consistent with my beliefs that the angels came to help and comfort me after my car accident.  I believe that the angels would come and get me when I die and  accompany me to the afterlife , so that is also consistent with my beliefs.  The part where I  initially found myself waiting alone in a void isn’t consistent with my previous beliefs is a little strange. I don’t know what to make of that.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I a saw group of angels. They were about 4 feet tall and slender. They had black shoulder length hair and brown eyes. Their faces were full of light. Each of them was wearing a different colored  gown.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I saw and talked to angels. One of the angels told me that it wasn’t up to me or to them to decide if I was allowed to stay there or if I had to return. He told me that it was up to God to decide. We had to do what God wants us to, because he knows what is best for us. I saw one of the angels having a conversation with God even though I couldn’t see him. He was looking up and speaking to someone I couldn’t see. Another angel told me the first angel was talking to God about my situation.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   The angels told me that everything that happens in my life happens for a reason even if I don’t always know what that reason is. Even the bad things.  I had  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Our lives aren’t meaningless or insignificant. Everyone has a purpose in life. Everyone of us is put here for a reason even if we don’t always know what it is. Each of us has some work we are supposed to carry out in our life time.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I saw angels. They told me they were there to help and protect me and not to be afraid. They told me that it hadn’t been decided yet if I was to return here to this life, or if  I was to continue on with them to the next life, and I was in a waiting area. The angels told me that they would always be with me and would help and protect me and not  to worry.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No     Our lives aren’t meaningless or insignificant. Everyone has a purpose in life. Every one of us is put here for a reason even if we don’t always know what it is. Each of us has some work we are supposed to carry out in our life time.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt complete and unconditional love and acceptance from the angels. I felt that the angels didn’t judge me; they were very happy to see and spend time with me.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have tried to spend more time with family and friends.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes part of the experience was difficult to explain in words. Everything there is so different than it is here. I was able to speak to the angels telepathically.  I don’t know how to explain it, but I could understand some of the things that the angels wanted to tell me even though they didn’t use words to communicate. Somehow I just knew when thy looked at me.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I can remember every detail of this experience as clearly as if it happened yesterday. The memory hasn’t faded in the least as time has passed like other memories have. I can’t even remember some of the other events that happened happened during this time period. I can remember every detail of what happened that day and in the following  days very clearly.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I did share my experience with a relative a few days after the accident. She believes me and was interested to know more about it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard that some people have had NDE before.  I don’t feel that it affected my experience in any way, because prior to my own experience, I didn’t know much about them.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have no doubt that the experience was real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have no doubt that the experience was real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_r_nde_9456.html