{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisa Possible NDE 4061","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa Possible NDE 4061  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1950 Lisa Possible NDE 4061  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in hospital due to Anorexia Nervosa. I woke up suddenly at like 3:00 am. I was looking down at my body and aware of a presence sort of to my right and behind me. I realized (not really visual, but could somehow see him?) that Jesus was there. It surprised me, as I was agnostic. We began a communication/transmission. As if we didn't speak, yet I could hear his voice somehow.

It was very brief and to the point. Firstly, I was not scared, just really surprised. I initiated the dialogue. We spoke without speaking. It's hard to describe. He was up sort of above and behind me to the right. I 'saw' him without looking/seeing him. Here's how it went:

Me: 'What are YOU doing here?' (I knew he was put off by this and felt things hadn't started out too well, he seemed in a rush, impatient once I 'transmitted' this to him.)

Him: 'Do you want to stay or go?'

Me: 'STAY.'

Him: 'Okay, you have to make a promise.'

Me: Okay, what?'

Him: ' You can never do this again.'

Me: 'Okay.' Then he was not there anymore and I was back in my body, I was lying in the bed. I got up, (before this, I was unable to walk).  

I walked to the nurse's station and demanded food, of the highest calorie sort.

I never looked back and was on a mission to gain the weight needed to get out of hospital, go home to my former life. And I did.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'January, 1971'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Other 'Anorexia Nervosa, complicated by pneumonia'  Anorexia Nervosa. I was fifteen years old, five feet seven inches tall and down to sixty-three pounds.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     See main narrative.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     See main narrative.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    See main narrative.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See #3

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total surprise, then it all went down very fast, so kind of a ' rushed' feeling. Jesus seemed sort of impatient.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I chose to stay because I knew I wasn't willing to go.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have researched the 'Other Bible,' etc. I will always feel a connection to Jesus.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have researched the 'Other Bible,' etc. I will always feel a connection to Jesus.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   See main narrative.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Others believe it happened, they are forever associating me with Jesus.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It didn't match my beliefs. So I was confused about it, therefore I hadn't any way to articulate it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Felt I had profound connection with Jesus and still feel it, even though he seemed a bit annoyed with me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I knew somehow that I had been saved. It was my only way to remain here.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't wish to share it for a while, thought I would be put in a mental institution, which was an option at that point. It was a long while until I shared my encounter.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Well, I don't know why, but Jesus saved me. I am still not a convert to religion.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I've sensed he was around. Then, radio would start lots of new Jesus songs, etc.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You were very good!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_possible_nde.html