{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_h_nde_5073.html","mytitle":"Lisa H NDE 5073","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa H NDE 5073  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2629 Lisa H NDE 5073  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was fatally injured in a boat wreck at night on the lake. I was knocked out, then fell into the water and drowned. I was unresponsive for twenty-eight minutes while the other boater took us to the shore. An ambulance picked me up and resuscitated me. I was air lifted to University of Missouri Medical center at Columbia. I remained there on life support and in a coma for twenty-eight days. The fact that I am alive today is a miracle.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  06/19/05

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury  Our boat was run over by a larger boat. I was hit with particles from the wreck which knocked me out then I fell in the lake and drown.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Traumatic brain injury, drowning and anoxia in a coma for twenty-eight days. Doctor's thought I would not live. They assumed I would be nearly brain dead and handicapped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the light I felt safe, secure and full of love. There was no other place I wanted to be at that point in time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I realized there is no sense of time or space on the other side. Humans invented time as it is. I could have been there for days, months, weeks or years or just a moment.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw the energy of deceased loved ones. Not Physical form. They were like thousands of candles burning.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no formal speech just telepathy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Two Angelic Beings of Light who seemed to be eight feet tall with Mediterranean skin and dark blue piercing eyes, escorted me from the lake into the light. They wore long robes without actual angel wings.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was like a beautiful cloud surrounded by golden white light and rainbow colors flashed around inside it.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Free to float throughout the universe. Happy, carefree.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I knew I had been loved on earth and we only take that love with us to the other side. People who worry about a loved one dying alone have nothing to worry about. We do not die alone.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew I needed to meet my grand babies. At the time, I had two teenage daughters. Believe it or not, I was a grandma two times before forty-two. I believed I had a daughter when I awoke from the coma. Four years later, I have a daughter through a new marriage. She was born in 2005.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Religion comes from man and one is not better than another just translated differently.  I went from Catholic to spiritual. All paths lead to God (who has no religion) and we are all connected to that divine source of unity and oneness.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual all paths lead to God.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Religion comes from man and one is not better than another just translated differently.  I went from Catholic to spiritual. All paths lead to God (who has no religion) and we are all connected to that divine source of unity and oneness.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   They told me I would return to earth to teach others not to fear life or death. Once this is accomplished, there will be peace on earth. I am a light worker here to bring light into the world. My life's purpose is to help people turn their life tragedies into transformations on a positive note, to live in harmony and balance.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I remarried - moved to California and live in a place where people understand what I have to say. Missouri is part of the Christian Bible Belt and I could not stand the energy there.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   However, When I wrote my book I did not tell my whole NDE story. I have much more to tell and I am ready to do so now.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I always had a sixth sense. Now I can channel messages from beings of light and also the gift of psychic/medium ship. I am more aware of the angelic realm that surrounds us.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All I can say is that it was all worth it. I am not afraid of life or death because they are different states of being. Living in spirit is all that matters because when you live through love the same will come back to you. The Law of Attraction does exist.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not all of it - I wrote a book in 2008.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I actually became depressed with life on earth. When I asked why I had to come back they said my message was important to help bring peace to earth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As if I have been given a very special message to give to the world. It was an amazing journey to the other side.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I want people to know that taking their own life is not really an option. When it is our time we will go and stay in the wonderful light of Divine Love.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Love to connect with other NDErs.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_h_nde_5073.html