{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_l_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisa L Possible NDE 4973","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa L Possible NDE 4973  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa L Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared Possible NDE  			2564 Lisa L Possible NDE 4973  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was under general anesthesia during a four-hour surgery about two weeks before my mother passed away. During this time, my mother was in a coma in a hospital across town after going into renal failure.

During my experience while I was under sedation, I found myself standing just inside a very dark tunnel. A few feet beyond where I was standing, the tunnel ended and there was a large area of just pure, white light. I could see beings dressed in white flying or moving about within the light.

With me inside of the tunnel was my mother. We were talking for a time, though I have never been able to recall what we were talking about. It seems as though we were together for a while, though again, I'm not sure how long it was.

Finally, my mother said that it was time for me to go back. She said that she would be going on into the light in a few days, but that she would see me again soon.

I then woke up in the recovery room.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'July 19, 2005'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Other: General anesthesia during a four-hour long surgery.  The event occurred while I was under general anesthesia during a four-hour surgery. I'm not sure if any life-threatening events occurred during that surgery or not.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the end when my mother was telling me that I had to go back, but that she would be going on soon.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I couldn't tell how long had passed that I was there talking with my mother.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was able to look at that bright white area without it bothering my eyes. I'm usually very light sensitive and have to wear sunglasses if I go out in sunlight.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was at the edge of a dark tunnel that opened into a very large light area.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother, who was in a coma in a hospital across town. We talked for a while, and then she told me I had to go back and that she'd be going on within a few days, but that she'd see me again soon. (She died August 13.) [NDERF note: mother died 25 days after experience.]

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The whole area outside of the dark tunnel I was in was bathed in pure, white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The pure, white, very bright area beyond the dark tunnel where I was standing with my mom.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was happy to be talking with my mom, and then sad that she would be going on and I couldn't go with her.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I wasn't able to cross out of the dark tunnel into the light because it wasn't my time to do so.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Pentecostal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm more spiritual without being more religious.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Pentecostal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm more spiritual without being more religious.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seem to have a lot of 'synchronicity' episodes, where I'll be reading or thinking something and someone will say the exact words that I'm reading or thinking at the exact same second that I'm reading them. This happens to me four or five times every day.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the entire experience was very meaningful because it gave me a chance to talk with and say goodbye to my mom before she passed away. It also showed me that even though we were both unconscious at the time, our spirits were still able to communicate.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I think it was several months after the experience that I shared it with my family. They seemed interested, but I don't think they were influenced in any way.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had seen some things on TV about NDEs, but not a whole lot of information about them.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I treasure this experience, and I know that someday I'll be able to cross out of the dark tunnel into the light and join my mother and other loved ones there. And most of all, I'll be with my Lord.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_l_possible_nde.html