{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisa M Probable NDE 7420","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa M Probable NDE 7420  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3776 Lisa M Probable NDE 7420  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was undergoing a rhinoplasty, due to having had my nose broken twice. [Editor's Notation: Rhinoplasty is a plastic surgery procedure for reconstructing and restoring the functions of the nose.]  I was under general anesthesia. 

I remember floating somewhere filled with grayish mist and feeling profound peace, along with a total disconnect from my body. I heard the nurse shouting from somewhere far away, 'Breathe, Lisa, breathe!' I realized that my heart was giving one beat, then not beating for a long time, before beating again just one time. I remember hearing the complete panic in the nurse's voice and wondering why she was so upset, because I felt fine, at peace. I was aware that my heart wasn't beating and that I wasn't breathing, but I didn't care. I could have just stayed in that peaceful place, but the urgency in her voice seemed to force me back against my will. 

After that, I only remember being aware of one instance during the operation when the doctor hurt me while clearing my nasal passages, then nothing. No one ever talked to me about my reaction to the anesthesia, but I'm sure I had a bad reaction and almost died. I would not have cared if I had, because it was a peace so total, that it can't be adequately described, with total awareness of myself.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Just the nurse panicking.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I can't explain, I can only describe my acute awareness of myself as a separate being, from the body that I currently inhabit.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was when my heart was only beating about once per thirty seconds.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Slower, relaxed, utterly peaceful.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was no vision, just awareness not related to the usual physical senses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The nurse sounded far, far away; as if we were no longer in the same place. I don't know how else to describe it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A misty, grayish, sort of neutral place that was neither life nor death.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful and mild curiosity at the panic in the nurse's voice.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic   Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Very unexpected event, but not entirely inconsistent with my thoughts about what might happen when my life force leaves my physical body.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I have always had odd experiences, including sounds, visions, and dreams and just 'knowing'.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my doctors, because it might have been an adverse reaction to the anesthesia.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just from what I have read.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believe that I had an adverse reaction to the general anesthesia and that my body came close to dying or did die briefly. I believe that I was aware of everything, because I am not my body; I am merely associated with my body and am a separate entity from the physical body, which I currently am associated.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Intense meditation with the intent to astral project.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_m_probable_nde.html