{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_ms_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisa MS NDE 9652","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa MS NDE 9652  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa MS NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5211 Lisa MS NDE 9652  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I had a terrible headache.  The first doctor told me to go home because ‘everyone get headaches.’   A few days later I went to the emergency room.  The doctor said it was a good sign that I was sitting up and talking, but they were going to do a head scan.  When the scan started the tech ran out of the room and hit the crash button.  I had a blood clot the size of a man's fist on my brain.    

  I was given 10% chance of survival in a permanent vegetative state.  0% chance of having any meaningful function.  My neurosurgeon said I was a miracle.  He had no idea why I was alive, sitting up and visiting with friends in the ICU.  The doctor told me everyone who looked at my head scan agreed that I was already dead.  He told me that anything he did to me could kill me. The blood clot would either dissolve on its own or I would die. So they would just wait to see what happened.   He insisted God loved me more than other people because it was medically impossible for me to be alive.  

    So, I went to home to wait and to vigorously pray.    

  One day, I was sitting on my bed praying and I said to God, ‘God I know you don't love me more than other people as a Father could never choose.’   The next thing I know I am sitting outside on a concrete bench.   I can see the blue sky, the grass, and the texture of the concrete.  I am confused because I was just at my house praying and now I am outside and in no pain.  Then I heard a voice say, ‘You are right. I don't love you more than other people.  I just answered the prayers that came from you because when you are well, you help me take care of people.’  I asked, 'Like Kayla?'  God said, 'Yes, I gave you as a gift to her.  I said, 'I thought she was a gift to me because I love her.' God said, 'Anyone could have kept her safe. You love her. That is the difference.'    He reminded me that when I was a child, I had prayed for a gift of the spirit.  He said that he didn't give me the gift I requested.  My gift is making people feel safe. It's why I stand up for people all the time.  He said I would be going back.  We discussed future events where I would be needed to help others.   At one point, he asked me if I remembered how I lovingly joked about a neighbor.  When she was very sick, she came to my house and said, 'God said if I came here you would save me.'  I took her to the hospital and got her the help she needed.  When people would ask me why I did so much to help her, I always replied as a Christian, how do I not help someone who needs help.  And I would laugh.  Plus she said 'God sent her to me' and I didn't want to risk it by disappointing God.   God said, 'I did send her to your house, and you did save her.' After we talked, God told me it is time to go back.  I don't know if I had a choice or not.  I didn't want to go back, but I knew my kids would miss me.  Then I was back.  

  I started calling everyone to tell them my experience. The blood clot eventually dissolved, leaving no long-term damage.   My doctor called me his miracle patient.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Jan 2010  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         blood clot on my brain.  Other: I was given 0% chance of surviving the blood clot on my brain  blood clot the size of a man's fist on my brain.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness.  It   felt like a normal day, except I was sitting next to God  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was alert the entire time  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     my vision was fine.   I didn't have my glasses on but saw everything clearly.  
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing was normal  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I was sitting outside on a concrete bench.   I was no longer in any pain.  I could feel the sun, see the blue sky and the green grass.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt great love and acceptance  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     I understood my actions better.  Being an outspoken advocate for others.  I understood Gods perfect love for me.  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     we discussed my gifts and situations where I stood up for people.  

  Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future.     It was confusing for some time,  things would happen and I would know about them.  Then I would realize these were things I saw in Heaven.  
  
  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.  God told me I was going back while we were talking.  then he told me it was time to go back.  I remember thinking I am not sure if I want to go back but my kids will miss me.  then I was back  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   was Methodist at the time.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I understand God and what he expects from me.  it is hard to see religion used to hurt others.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   now Lutheran  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I learned the meaning of life is to be Gods hands here on earth.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     no longer afraid of death.  try to see others as God sees them.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I was sitting next to a figure which was God  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I felt the presence of God.  Felt his total love for me.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I felt his love.  He knew all about my life.  Told me what my gifts were.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know what my gifts are and what God expects from me.  One reason I came back was to tell my story.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     God told me the meaning of life was to be his hands here on earth  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     God told me I would be coming back to Heaven one day  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     I do art shows.  God tells me who to tell my story to.   I make people cry at every show.  They need to hear my story.  often people come back to tell my why they needed to hear my story that day.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I apologized to God for not always being a good person.  He told me not to worry about it.  I had been a good person and he loved me.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I am kinder.  Try to fulfill Gods expectations of me.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more understanding and kind.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  Luckily my friend Michelle told me to write down everything I remembered since I was not expected to survive.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I know when God wants me to tell my story to others.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        A feeling of great love from God.  Knowing he watches over me in all I do.  I love being able to spread his love to others.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    immediately I started telling people.  I dont really care if people believe me or not.   Most people tell me later why they needed to hear my story.  I continue to stand up for others.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt a great sense of peace.  no longer afraid of death.  I look forward to dying again.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     things I have done make more sense now.  Why I always felt protective of Kayla. I understand my gifts  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Things have happened that I saw in heaven.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       People do notice I am not afraid to die any more.  When my MIL passed, the hospice nurse asked if he could ask me a very personal qustion.  I said sure.  He asked me why I was not afraid of death.  He told me that he and the other nurses had been watching me for the last few weeks and wondered why this didnt scare me.   I told him because I know going to heaven is wonderful.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_ms_nde.html