{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lira_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Lira P NDE 2306","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lira P NDE 2306  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lira P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						680  Lira P NDE  2306  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I began feeling a lack of air that got increasingly worse. I tried to get into the ambulance but I was so sick I couldn't do it even sitting down. I can't even remember everything that happened on the way to the hospital. I remember entering the hospital and being spoken to. After this, I remember:

There was a cone shaped tunnel that had walls made of a kind of gray cloud, pleasant to the touch. Inside this tunnel, it was very clear with a white light. I slowly went up in the tunnel and when I arrived at the widest part, I saw a lovely green field with a wood fence. Inside this fence were many people. I recognized one of my relatives who had died and another person who was still living. When I was very, very near to this fence some of the people joined hands and from this union emerged a very elastic, enormous gray colored hand with white rays that pushed me back away. I noticed that some people collaborated in the joining of hands, and others did not. My relative was not happy about what was happening and did not help like the person who is still alive. There was one person who smiled at me but I wasn't able to identify that person as someone I knew. I repeated this experience five or six times with the same outcome for me. I wasn't hurt, I felt no pain, I was inside the soft tunnel and with a great sense of well-being. At no time did I feel any discomfort. I have good memories of this experience and I was left with the sensation that the act of dying is good.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 05/30/1995  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness      Edema agudo do pulmão  Other Várias Paragens cardio respiratórias  Death.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was very aware of the details.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Always.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sounds were far away.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     There was a cone shaped tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Inside this fence there were many people. I recognized one of my relatives who had died and another person who is still alive.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a white light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     o que vi foi um lindo campo verde com uma cerca de madeira    

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wellbeing, peace, happiness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I was given the feeling that the people who joined together to make the hand that pushed me away, wanted me to go back. At the height of all this I was confused as to why my relative was against my going back. I had a great feeling of longing and wanted to be with him.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I came to have the certainty that all who pass on are okay and are at peace, which allows me to live through this passage with calmness because I know that one day I will be okay and peaceful.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I became more self-controlled.  

After the NDE:     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sensation of tranquility was particularly impressive.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The people were attentive and curious.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I never paid much attention.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I can still remember everything even today as if it had just happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can still remember everything even today as if it had just happened.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was very good.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lira_p_nde.html