{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisa B NDE 57","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa B NDE 57  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Lisa B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						273  Lisa B NDE  57  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

I was doing veterinary work on a horse. The horse reared up and struck me directly with its front hoof hitting my head, face and arm, as I tried to protect myself. I fractured several facial bones, detached retina, and fractured radius in arm. Was unconscious for a brief period. My experience during this period, however, seemed to take much more ‘time’, if it were to occur strictly in this physical dimension.

I found myself suddenly above my body, looking down on the whole scene. I could see things that were outside the stall that I was in even though that would have been impossible if I was seeing from where my body was. It was like looking down like a camera that has pulled up to see an expanded view of a scene. I became aware that there were 2 (possibly 3) ‘beings’ with me, one on either side. They were communicating with me directly, telepathically, just putting their input directly into my consciousness. No words and much less ‘time’. I knew I was somehow removed from these usual ‘laws’ or ways of processing experience. While I did not sense a life review on specific terms, I was shown, by understanding; not pictures or movies; many significant things in my life. The good and the bad. All focused on my contributions; how I handled myself. I remember the almost palpable absence of all fear. I was made to understand that this fear is what underlies many of our poor choices. That there is nothing to fear.

I felt compassion toward myself like I never could imagine possible. A type of love that I never knew. Empathy, sympathy for all I'd experienced and a new determination to let myself live as I could and should and must. I knew I had a clear purpose and was shown this purpose so I could understand how needed I was. I felt no pain. Not sure if I had a body or if my guides did. It didn't seem to matter. I was in contact with all information; total understanding of everything. But what I connected with was just the importance of my life purpose. I saw the future (don't remember it now) and even saw how difficult recovery would be from the accident, but knew I would get through it, which was all that mattered for me to get on to do what I am meant to do.

And that I could only serve this purpose, if I lost my fears; of rejection, not being liked for the stands I took, other people having control of things (only we do), etc. And then I could act out of pure love; no complications or compromises. Once I ‘understood all this’, I found myself back in my body in excruciating pain. I also had the knowledge that these guides are always there when they are needed. They are the ultimate nurturers.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1988

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Trauma to head and body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not notice, but seemed to know it was different. I didn't care. It didn't matter. It seemed natural and familiar.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious physically, but more alert/conscious than I had ever experienced before or since. Like a window had been cleaned that you did not know was dirty until you saw the difference.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There is no way that I could receive this much information in the amount of time that had passed for my body. I felt somehow "expanded" but can't really explain that in words.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They sat to either side of me. I felt that I have always known them; felt connected in a deep way to them. Understanding, love, specialness of my being and my purpose. What I needed to do; not let fear creep back into my life, so that it interfered with my acting out of pure love and doing what I am here to do.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Not spatially, but this pure love permeates in such a way it almost seems like its own level or dimension.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Pure love. Empathy.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     About fear and that each of us has a purpose that is as critical as everyone else's; there are no "small or insignificant" lives; we are all connected. Like having a small role in a play; it might not be as noticeable as the lead but the play as a whole needs every player to do their specific and equally critical role.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not a literal review but a review of feelings; good and bad. About how much fear is at the core of our mistakes. I can better recognize when that fear just starts to creep back in. I do a "self-check" and make sometimes difficult decisions in order to remain true to my true being and act out of honesty and love, even when it causes problems.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I can't remember the specifics but when something happens today; especially when meeting certain people; I get a feeling that this is part of one of the things that I saw.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Just that I had a renewed purpose and commitment to do what I am meant to do; to get on with it.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     A sense of oneness, of purpose much bigger than the here and now. Spiritual identity. I feel like a spiritual being who is on a human mission.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Hard to process it all. The sense that no one could really understand unless they had gone through it themselves.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Electric feeling, like a low grade buzz in my hands when I work with patients and also interacting with people. It is hard for someone to misrepresent what they are all about with me; I can sense "good, love-based people from bad, fear-based ones" who are out to harm. Some precognition, but of feelings, not specific details of events.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Getting this "wake-up call" to my being. Finding the security from knowing all these things.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Very carefully. No one in my family knows. So, I tend to tell those few people who seem ready to hear this stuff. They tell me that they see little events in their lives differently; loss of loved ones, struggles, etc.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_b_nde.html