{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lis_l_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Lis L Probable NDE 3859","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lis L Probable NDE 3859  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lis L Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3705 Lis L Probable NDE 3859  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I got a shock when I sucked a piece of candy down the windpipe. The event was very traumatic. My body became heavy like lead, and I suspected that my life was hanging by a very thin thread. I was located a few houses from my home, and began running towards home while trying to scream for my mother. At that moment, the word "mother" and its meaning was deeply imprinted on me. My voice sounded thick and distant. Everything I now went through would have consequences for the remainder of my life.

A lady happened to look up from washing her dishes in the sink. Through her window, she saw me with my face was completely blue.  I was extremely uncomfortable that grownups spoke about this in such a nonchalant manner when it really affected me.  Subsequently, it took me many years before I could tell what had happened.

Oftentimes when I became nervous or afraid as a grownup, this thick traumatic experience would envelop me. Even later, after I had screamed out my experiences in therapeutic screaming sessions, my anxiety would get worse. It’s as if the experience had been layered into my consciousness and become encapsulated in there, to be brought back to life years later. Through this therapy, I ended up experiencing even more bizarre and traumatic experiences, such as out of body experiences, falling through time and space, ending up deep down inside a sub-atomic world. Now, as an adult, I no longer believed in God.  I refuse to become a victim of societal circumstances. I tried to cut ties to anything that had to do with conforming to societal expectations.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1962 minns ej datum

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  Olycka genom kvävning. Satte en karamell i halsen.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I could have died from suffocation, but was rescued by a lady who saw me choking. At the age of seven, during the moment of suffocation, I was in a heightened state of alertness. All my senses were heightened, until I went into a compact yet life-affirming darkness. My consciousness pushed in, or out, toward a surrealistic and hallucinatory feeling. My senses were twisted but simultaneously heightened and more piercing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The death experience is to go into a geometrical plane where time and space ceases to exist, and this unusual feeling can result in anxiety or trauma.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I don’t remember anything about vision specifically. It was rather the emotional aspects that held my attention.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I “heard” my own voice as thick and sticky and muddled, like a voice that came from inside and that came from a center point within my consciousness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I only remember darkness up until I woke up in a lady’s lap and got a glass of water to drink. In that moment, I experienced a peace that was magical. I was relieved and happy.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Själva känslan i sig, själva det blytunga gav mig en känsla av en annan dimension. Som om kroppen och själen uppstått ur olika dimensioner och att detta orsakar en splittring hos människan.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I think I experienced it as if my body became heavy like lead and yet it was as if I didn’t have to carry it. My soul became separated from the body. Still I think I got scared as I couldn’t determine what the physical sensations meant. It’s as if I later in life have gotten a physical, bodily understanding separate from the spiritual.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     After this experience I became very religious and very Christian. I met Jesus through school education.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Vanlig uppfattning i förhållande till mina föräldrars livsåskådning

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Shortly after this experience, I began speaking to Jesus, and indirectly with god. In some way, I could feel that I was chosen and special, and my psyche and self confidence partially changed.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I’m unsure of where I stand with others and I’m very dependent on how others understand me and can understand my anxiety.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I couldn't connect with other people because they didn't show any sign of psychological insight into my experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have definitely received gifts through this experience, but of a difficult sort. It is as if I’d like to better the world and the knowledge in the world, but yet it is like it creates reluctance in other people. They think that I’m making myself more important than I am. My gifts are definitely of the mental kind, something that usually only I can recognize.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        At times I became very religious, something I abdicated in my late teens when I wanted to revolt and become a hippie.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have a hard time sharing the experience with others, but I continue to work on it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The death process still causes me anxiety and is very real to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Sometimes I experience it as if I’m on my way into another dimension, and then it can sometimes happen that the traumatic parts of the experience is reawakened and I become afraid of death. No, not TO DIE, but the process itself of DYING. That’s what scares me. And that’s what makes me long more and more for god.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lis_l_probable_nde.html