{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisa H NDE 3520","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa H NDE 3520  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa H NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1572 Lisa H NDE 3520  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember being in and out of consciousness, trying to look around to see what was going on, until I slipped into almost a peaceful sleep, I was not afraid or worried. I saw a very bright light all around me; it was beautiful. I saw what seemed to me as angel wings around me, I could not make out any faces, just knew they were there. One that really stood out to me was an angel so bright that was right in front of me, she had on an African necklace. What seemed to me standing there with her a very long time, which actually was only a few minutes, but her necklace is what continues to this day to stand out to me. I came around and the lady that was there with me was crying and told me what had happened. I had a tear come out of my eye but was not afraid at all, I kept reassuring her that I was okay.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Stopped breathing during tonsillectomy.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I saw the angels.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw the angels.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I just know that the light was a beautiful bright light that did not hurt my eyes at all and I was not afraid of it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not have the ringing in my ear then that I still have.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Saw angels.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a beautiful bright light, brighter than the sun almost golden but did not hurt the eyes to look into.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was in awe. Was not afraid. Felt safe. In a way I did not want to come back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am very close to my now nine year old. I have even let her know about the experience. I also have built a relationship with my family.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     When my daughter was three she was molested by her uncle. I did not know at the time, but Easter that year we were at the bishop's house eating and the kids played the drums downstairs in the unfinished basement. We took pictures of all the kids. There were two pictures of my daughter where she was by herself when we took them, but when we looked at them later, you could see angels with her. It was very bright in her picture and you could see the wings of angels all around her, and the same angel that had come to me years before was right there with her with the African necklace on.  The same night my grandfather died, I had a dream of him. He had come to me with a bright light all around him, and we were walking through what looked to be beautiful green land, almost like his farm. He grabbed my hand and told me that he was going to be all right, not to worry about him and that he loved me no matter what. The next morning I had found out that he had passed away in his sleep.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It always comes back to the angel with the African necklace that I think of the most.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told family right away. They were just staring at me in disbelief. But others I told just told me that me and my children are very blessed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just kept thinking about it and why it had happened. I knew then that God wanted me to change my life around.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was on a bad road back then basically killing myself slowly. I believe that it happened so that I would get a grip on my situation and myself to remove all bad things from my life. I believe that the angel that had come to me in 1989 visited my daughter in I believe it was 2000 or 2001 and she was letting me know that everything was going to be alright with my daughter not to worry.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have a daughter who is now three. When she began talking, she talks about Africa a lot and it always makes me think of that angel.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_h_nde.html