{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lisa_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Lisa C NDE 4661","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lisa C NDE 4661  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lisa C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2360 Lisa C NDE 4661  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had just ran up the driveway after my son and I had placed a new mailbox in the ground. I went into the house because my phone was ringing. I grabbed the phone near the bed and propped myself against the headboard to talk. It was my mother. I was telling her about the mailbox my son and I had just put in the ground. I felt an irregular heartbeat, then another. I must have made a noise because my mother asked if I was okay. I said that I had a pretty good roll of the heart. (I do have a heart arrhythmia.) I was looking forward at some pictures of my three kids and my deceased husband on the wall. (My husband had been deceased for seven years at this time).

I felt another irregular beat and the pictures started slowing pulling away, or rather I was slowing being pulled away and they were getting smaller. I found myself walking up a narrow dirt brown pathway in the sky and as I looked down, I could see thin wispy clouds moving over my feet, under the pathway and around me. I had on the sandals I had been wearing that day. There was nothing to hold onto, and I was not afraid of falling off the pathway. The temperature seamed normal, pleasant, perfect. 

I looked forward and there was a bright, bright, beautiful light further up the pathway. Looking at the light it was as if I were in a tunnel. It got bigger on my end and getting smaller towards the light. The sky was the most beautiful; I mean the most beautiful blue color I have ever in my life seen. The blue was similar to the color of this page website, but unbelievably beautiful. I felt so safe, so calm I think the color made me feel this way, or maybe the light itself. I started to walk up the pathway towards the light. I was thinking man if this is how it feels to die; this is a piece of cake (exact thoughts). It felt so peaceful, so quiet, no noise, not even a breeze. I had no thoughts or worries of even leaving my three kids and family members behind (something to this day I feel so guilty about since their father had passed away at such a young age and I was all they had). As I continued up the path, I was looking for someone, anyone, I had always thought there would be someone here to greet me. I thought for sure my husband would be here, my dad, my grandparents, the Lord, angels. I saw no one. My only concern was where is everyone and why isn't someone here?

I then hear my mother's voice yelling, 'Lisa! Lisa! Talk to me! Lisa, if you don't talk to me I'm going to hang up and call 911!' I woke with the phone lying off my shoulder and my mother's voice coming out of the receiver. I had a horrible headache. I picked up the phone and my mom was yelling my name. She told me to hurry and get my son Josh to do a quick check (he is an emergency medical technician) and get me to the hospital. I told her I felt okay, just light headed, tired and I had a horrible headache. I promised her I would have my son take my vitals. We hung up the phone; I had Josh come into the room. He took my blood pressure/pulse. I was feeling better by the moment. Everything was okay. I did not go to the hospital. I did fall asleep right after this happened. It was 4:00 in the afternoon and slept until 6:00 pm, something I never do.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.      Other: Passed out after a short run.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The whole time once I started walking on the pathway.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time once I started walking on the pathway.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt I was there for several minutes, twenty to thirty minutes. My mother says it was only seconds/ a minute that I would not respond.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The color of the sky, I cannot describe the beautiful blue color. The bright light was so beautiful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing while walking the pathway. Then my mother's voice coming out of the receiver of the phone was distant.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was attempting to pass through a tunnel of light into the bright light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright, beautiful, inviting.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The whole pathway in the sky was a beautiful level, dimension.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, peaceful, relief.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just that fact that it was so beautiful, peaceful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Besides my mother and my son, I spoke to the pastor at the police department where I worked at the time. My only concern at the time was why wasn't there someone to greet me? He explained that I had not gone far enough up the pathway, before I heard my mother's voice.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My husband had a NDE experience during an open heart procedure he had done at the age of twenty-five. I was excited after the fact that this happened to me, though very different circumstances. You almost feel somewhat special that you were chosen to experience something like this. And, I know now that I am not afraid to die when the time comes.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I wanted to know more about this. I looked for anything written on the subject. Did I doubt it happened? No, it was real so very real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still wonder today, why I felt okay about leaving my children alone? The guilt I feel is still as strong as it was the day this happened. I would do anything for my kids, why was it so easy to feel I could leave them?

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       After going through this, I know I am ready when the Lord decides to call me home. I am not afraid. I also feel that whenever a loved on passes on, I have a calm feeling knowing what they experience in the process of reaching the life after death. This gives me some comfort.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lisa_c_nde.html