{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1linda_sue_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Linda Sue C NDE 413","mylang":"de"}
          	        Linda Sue C NDE 413  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Linda Sue C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1297 Linda Sue C NDE 413  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am a Diabetic. For years, I wondered why I never experienced any 'life after death experience', because I have been close to death several times. On this occasion, I dropped rapidly and my husband could not bring me back. I remember looking down at myself standing in a field of flowers. I saw myself younger. I started to pick a flower when I turned and looked up in the air and heard a voice say, 'Linda you can't stay, you have to go back'. Then I woke in my husband's arms.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  4/01

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    I'm a Diabetic, I had a hypoglycemia episode  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   My sugar was so low, it didn't even register on the meter. My husband gave me all kinds of medications to bring me back, but it didn't help.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I looked down and saw myself in the field of flowers.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I saw myself - and I know it was very real! I even had a favorite black sweater on!

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear my husband calling my name when I came back.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Just bright sunlight.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just a beautiful field of blooming flowers.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sadness, because I couldn't stay. Amazement, that I saw myself outside my body.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     That it is God's decision when we go to Heaven.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     I know I had to go back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I heard God say I couldn't stay.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Methodist

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel closer to God and I know there is life after death.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The more time went by, the more I remembered.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best, I could re-live this experience and know God is there always. Sadness that I couldn't stay.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My husband, he knew I was beyond his help, to bring me back.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It took a couple days before I could actually remember everything.  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1linda_sue_c_nde.html