{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1linda_s_nde_3922.html","mytitle":"Linda S NDE 3922","mylang":"de"}
          	        Linda S NDE 3922  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Linda S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1864 Linda S NDE 3922  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I saw my sister, who had passed away twenty-one years before my experience. She was doing some type of work with other beings, who had human form, but I do not remember their faces. This was in a one-level structure that looked like a long house from the outside. She was giggling and quite happy. She greeted me and told me there was someone she wanted me to meet. Amidst some commotion, through the back came Jesus Christ, and there was no mistake as to who he was. He looked like the artist's portraits, but not meek and mild, as often portrayed, he was healthy and robust. He put his arm around me, in the area of what would have been my shoulder, looked me straight in the eyes and said, 'I have come for you, that you may know that I am real.' I was totally awestruck by His presence, yet I felt a love and respect for Him that I have never felt in physical life. I followed Him to an area that I can best describe as a 'desert garden'. We sat on large 'sitting rocks', and he began to speak. I remembered little of the conversation we had after the experience was over; my memory of the conversation has remained the same throughout the years. He was explaining the different things of life on Earth, why it was that life on earth was not perfect, and why it was that way. What people on earth had misconstrued about life and living? He said that there were many different religions on earth, as one faith would not take care of everyone's spiritual needs. This is all I have been able to remember of this conversation. I followed Him back to this long house area, and I asked Him if I could stay, and He said, 'No, it's not your time.' I then asked Him if I could go back and tell everyone that he was real, and He said ' No, this is for others to come to know.' With that, I found myself looking at the outside of a small building with a short flight of stairs. I walked up the stairs and opened a door, and at that point I woke up from the coma.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  01/1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Other Coma induced by high fever from bacterial meningitis.  Contracted bacterial meningitis.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully aware at all times during the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed as though my experience lasted maybe an hour or more. Time seemed to move slowly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My sister, who had passed away twenty-one years before my experience. There were other beings she was working with. Also met and communicated with Jesus.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I smelled ground/dirt as I have never smelled it before....I could best describe the smell as sweet and very pleasant. I saw water coming from rock that was the purest pure, clear and polished. I saw flowers that were not of the earth, but were incredibly vibrant in color.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total release of cares, concerns and pain I felt in life. Extreme happiness and joy, overwhelmed by love, but not as we know love in our physical lives; this is a perfect and ethereal love I had not experienced before.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was a total agnostic before my experience; now my faith and spirituality are the most important things in my life.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was a total agnostic before my experience; now my faith and spirituality are the most important things in my life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   There was the knowledge shared by Jesus Christ in the conversation I had with Him in the desert garden.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I only involve myself in healthy and positive relationships.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared the experience with my mother after I woke up from the coma. She was very happy for me. She passed away this last year. I told a woman who was to undergo serious surgery, she was alone and very afraid to die, I told her this in 1999, I never saw her again, although she did survive the surgery. I have told portions of my experience to two others who were close to suicide.  I wanted them to know why it's important not to commit suicide. They are still living.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     From what I saw, and what I felt during my experience, I have always known that my experience was real, and for purpose.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1linda_s_nde_3922.html