{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1linda_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Linda R NDE 237","mylang":"de"}
          	        Linda R NDE 237  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Linda R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1403 Linda R NDE 237  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Ten days after the birth of our second child, my husband and I had a planned evening for just the two of us. We celebrated the success of giving birth to our son the way most happily married couples do but something seemed 'odd' within my body. I remember going to the bathroom and seeing myself in the mirror. My face was drained of all color and I felt very shaky. It was then that I decided to sit on the toilet for a moment in order to still myself. When I sat down, everything inside of me seemed to fall out. I remember looking into the toilet and seeing huge blood clots, the size of a man's fist dropping into the water. At the time, I didn't know what the blood clots were, in fact, I remember thinking, 'My God, my insides just dropped out!' I was convinced that I was going to die right then and there.

The next thing I remember, I was suddenly rushing through a very large tunnel at a tremendous speed. The sound of rushing through the tunnel was like a deafening roar. Lights flashed by me as I rushed toward a small light at the end of the tunnel. Pictures of my past rushed by me. At first, I was afraid of what was happening so I closed my eyes. When I opened them, I was still in the tunnel, moving faster than before and someone was with me. I couldn't tell if this person was male or female. His presence felt like both. He appeared to wear a long white gown and had shoulder length, dark hair. He was taller than I was and was slender in build. He didn't speak to me but his presence gave me courage. There seemed to be others in the tunnel as well. They too, were traveling toward the light. I could feel myself picking up speed as I approached the light. It was as if I was compelled to go to it as if a moth is to a flame! I felt 'love' and 'happiness' as I have never felt on this earth the moment I stepped into the light. This was no ordinary light by the way; it was a pure, white light. It was the atmosphere. And, it made me giddy with love and happiness from the moment I stepped into it. I recall seeing a beautiful garden with a white fence around it. I remember thinking that the colors in the garden were so much more vivid here than at home.

Just as I reached to unlatch to gate, someone stopped me. This wasn't the same person that was with me in the tunnel. I knew this because his presence was most definitely male. He was dressed in a long white gown and had shoulder length hair, only his was lighter than the first person's. He guided me to a marble bench just outside of the garden where we sat down to talk. He told me things that I cannot remember now but he told me that I would remember what we spoke about when the time was right. And then he said that it was not my time to be there and that I needed to return to my family. Afterward, I felt as though I had spoken with Jesus.

Even though my son was only a few days old, I didn't want to leave this place. I argued and pleaded but it did no good. Suddenly I heard my name, in a whisper, in my ear. Just like that, I found myself back in my body on the bathroom floor. My husband, who had found me lying in a pool of blood, convulsing in the last throes of life, was shaking me and screaming my name into my face. It was his voice that I had heard as a whisper that brought me back into my physical body

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 9, 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Childbirth    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Toxic Infection caused by leftover afterbirth.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See main narrative.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It felt more real there then it does here.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    A huge rushing sound as I passed through the tunnel.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See main narrative.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Yes, two Beings -- see main narrative.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See main narrative.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See main narrative.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, Happiness, and Sorrow for being separated from that place.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I particularly felt this when I was speaking with the person that I later felt was Jesus.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     While in the tunnel, pictures of my past rushed by me. Traveling through the tunnel happened so fast that I can't say that I learned anything about my past life that I didn't already know. Yes, I did learn from the experience as a whole, however, and it has changed my life dramatically. Most importantly, I live my life without fear of dying.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     He told me things that I cannot remember now but he told me that I would remember what we spoke about when the time was right.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See main narrative.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am a born again Christian.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have experienced being healed by laying on of hands. Shortly after my NDE, I was diagnosed with Mitro Valve problems in my heart. I was put on a medication, which I took every six hours. In 1984, four years after the diagnosis, I experienced a spiritual healing in the Vineyard Church, Santa Monica, California. In 1986 I began having spiritual dreams and visions of the coming 'end days'.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was feeling the love and happiness when I stood in the light. The worst part was leaving.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Everyone who has listened to me is first stunned and surprised then filled with questions. Nearly everyone that I have shared this with has made a change in their lives by accepting Jesus as their Savior.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1linda_r_nde.html