{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1linda_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Linda W Probable NDE 22558","mylang":"de"}
          	        Linda W Probable NDE 22558  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Linda W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2844 Linda W Probable NDE 22558  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was loaded into the ambulance! My symptoms where high blood pressure, clammy feeling, nausea, and a feeling of fainting. The tech in the ambulance kept asking me if I had ever had a heart attack as my EEG was not right. He ask me three time and I just left him. I could hear him but did not care as I was no longer in any distress and I was floating just above the gurney. The feeling was incredible as I am a worry type of person. I at this time did not have any worries at all. Actually, everything in my life seem wonderful. I did not feel as though I was going to stay in the ambulance but that I was going to a place that was beautiful. I don't know how to explain this feeling as I have never had a feeling nor have I know anyone who ever expressed ever feeling like this. It was like I was not a person anymore. At least not the same person. Then we arrived at the hospital and they started doing test on me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Winrow 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening. Blood Pressure very high.  They kept asking me if I had ever had a heart attack. I kept telling them no! This month after a stress test I indeed did have one but we don't know when I had it.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  Well I knew that I was not feeling well in my body, but my mind was more than well. It was in this beautiful place.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was totally awake the entire time. One hundred percent consciousness and alertness.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt as if time was standing still or going very slow.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The only noise I heard is the ambulance tech talking to me. If, I answered him, I was not aware of it. However, I was awake!

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     All of my senses were working overtime!

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       You cannot explain the emotion as unless you have had this emotion it is unexplainable.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I came to know that we don't die! We move on to a wonderful place where there is not pain or sorrow. That there is more than five or six senses; we have many more that we have not experienced.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was still in the ambulance but I could smell flowers and felt like I was going to lay down on the ground covered in flowers.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   catholic

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I absolutely know there is a place called Heaven.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling was wonderful. I was not sick anymore and everything around me was wonderful. It was like nothing but wonderful things were ever going to happen to me from that point forward. I did not feel as though I was lying down but floating just off the gurney. Nothing could hurt me!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have always had a gift but I have never experienced anything like this before. The gifts I have is when a person is going to pass, I dream it prior to it happening.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst is not staying in that place. The best is being there for the time I had.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My husband.  He knows I have gifts and he also had a similar event.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Only that you would really like to have the experience. It's incredible.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain     I think I have done my best. But it is truly hard to explain.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think you covered it. Except these are not all out of body experiences. They are experience that even being out of body a bit cannot truly explain.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1linda_w_probable_nde.html