{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 8282","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n50_may_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N50 May 1888","mylang":"de"}
No L.-VOL. In. lIAY, 1888.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and AssocJates .• .• .. .. •• .. .. •. .. •• 257
Meeting of the Council . . . . . . . . . • •. ... . . . . . . •• 257
Genera.lMeeting.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .• .. .. .. .. .. 258
.An Account of some Experiments on Thought-Transference and Independent Clairvoyance
a.a!;t:;:uc:,to·the Lite •• Coniiniitee .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ::::
The DIsturbances at Bramfr:a.in Snffolk •. 2ft
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
NATGE, HANs, Berlin-Tempelhof, Berlin.
S9HRENK-NOTZING, BARON A. VON, Klenze-Strasse, 64, Munich.
ASSOCIATES.
MILlIIAN, MRS. W. H., 17, Southwell-gardens, London, S.W.
YOUNG, REV. CHARLES JOHN, F.R.A.S., Stafford-place, Halifax.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on the 13th of April, the
President in the chair, at which the following members were also
present :-Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. Edmund Gurney, F. W. H.
Myers, and Frank Podmore.
The minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed a.s correct.
Two new Associates, whose n'l.mes and addresses are given above~
'Were elected.
It was resolved that Baron A. von Schrenk-Notzing,of Munich, and
Herr H. Natge, of Berlin, be invited to become Corresponding Mem-
bers of the Society for the current year.
The decease was reported of Mr. O. E. Woodhouse, an Associate
of the Society. .
Some presents to the Library were reported, including some copies
of Part III. of the Proceedings of the .American Society for Psychical
Research, which the Secretary was directed to acknowledge with
thanks.
A cash account for the month of March was presented in the usual
form. A donation of one guinea from Mr. Edward Grubb, an Honorary
Associate, was recorded with thanks.
The House and Finance Committee reported that the rooms not
Digitized by Google
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 188 8.
required by the Society had been let to Mr. R. H. Bate, a Solicitor.
at a rent of £25 per annum, from the 25th of March last.
It was resolved that a General Meeting be held on Thursday.
the 31st of May and that the next Meeting of the Council be on th&
afternoon of the same day, at 4.30.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall;:
Professor Sidgwick was in the chair. Dr. A. T. Myers read the
following paper :-
AN ACCOUNT OF SOME EXPERIMENTS ON THOUGHT.TRANS-
FERENCE AND INDEPENDENT CLAIRVOYANCE AT MUNICH.
In the pursuit of such studies as this Society is engaged upon it
has always been a matter of interest, and almost always, I am glad to-
say, of encouragement to observe closely the methods that are being
used by similar societies in other countries and the results that are
there obtained. For the experimental results that we have reached in.
hypnotism, post-hypnotic suggestion, and, even more especia.Ily,
thought-transference are matters of the highest importance as a basis
of mcts that can be tried and tested again and again in many ways
and by new observers; and the limits may be accurately determined
of their power to bear the weight of any superstructure that may be
built uPon them, and which may involve more difficult observation and
theory. . .
At Nancy the power of hypnotism and suggestion has been made
most obvious by its long and patient trial on some 4,000 hospital
patients, taken as chance brought them, and their striking effects on
more than half of them. In 1885 the Societede Psychologie Physiologiq'U6
was founded in Paris and now includes the names of some of those
most distinguished in letters as well as in medical science in France_
Two years ago, by the courtesy of some of the members of that Society,.
we were given the rare opportunity at Havre of close observation of a
mos~ remarkable case of hypnotic action at the considerable distance
of half a-mile or more, and the striking success of those experimen~
under test conditions of our own imposing, has been detailed and is
recorded in the 10th Part of our Proceedings. Later on we were
admitted to several experiments at Lyons, and last year at Blois
M. de Rochas showed to one of our members a case in which the
extreme effects of post-hypnotic suggestion 'could be watched. The
doors of that great French national observatory of the nervous
system, the Hospital of the Salp8triere, have always been open for our
Digitized by Google
May,I888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 259
profit; and again and again, (on the last occasion but not least, some
fortnight or three weeks ago,) Professor Charles Richet has shown us
some of the methods and results of his own unwearying researches in
Paris. In Germany this careful system of psychological research by
experiment has been far from wanting, though perhaps it has been
less widely spoken of, and less has been recorded in print than in
France, and it is of the experiments and results at Munich that I
should wish to say a few words.
The Psychological Society of Munich was founded in October~
1886, and it has been able to hold meetings every week at which
papers have been read and discussions ha.ve followed, and with the,
occasional interposition of a social gathering for more general conversa-
tion or a bIief holiday, it has continued these throughout its first year'
and a-half. It has dealt with a wide range of subjects, from a general
discussion of the limits of knowledge to the more particular considera-
tion of "Spuk.phanomene" (l»ovember 2~h), and the special case of
"Dar Spuk zu Billigheim" (June 30th). Two evenings, at least, they'
have been kind enough to spend upon the consideration of the-
Proceeding8 of this Society in a very friendly ~pirit and, I believe I
may say, with a very favourable verdict. They have been engaged
with many experimental investigations, and it is with regard to a
special class of these experimental cases that I am specially concerned
to-night. In their conduct of these experiments they have followed
this Society in some respects in testing the truth of the transference-
of sensations from the hypnotiser to the subject, the transference of
touch, of taste, of smell, and, what is more important than all, the-
silent transference of thought (Von Notzing, P8'!Jchische Studien,
January, 1888, pp. 1-18). In these researches they have been fortunat&
enough to find an eminent member of their own Society able to act in
the very important position of hypnotiser and agent, Baron von
Notzing, to whose courtesy much of the information I have to offer
you is due. He is taking up the profession of a doctor and has made
use of the advantages of a strict training in the experimental sciences,
as well as a careful and accurate observation of the illnesses and
abnormal conditions of men, so as to fit himself excellently for con-
dllcting difficult experiments with a due care of the possibility of
disturbing causes. His papers in the Sphinx, P8'!Jchische Studien, and
other places offer matter for our consideration. Among them we find
careful experiments on a very sensitive subject, Fraulein Lina., as to·
the reproduction of diagrams. The diagrams had been drawn by a·
third person-often Baron du Prel-and shown to Von Notzing at a.
private house and in a room apart from the subject, Fraulein Lina.
Von Notzing then went and sat silently in the same room as the-
Digitized by Google
!60 JO'IJII"OOl, 0/ Society /0'1' Psychical, BeM,o/rch. rMay.I888.
subject, whom he had previously hypnotised, as a rule behind her and
out of her sight; .accurate precautions were taken to render any
ordinary communication.impossible, and under these strict conditions
Lina produced copies of the drawings which had been shown to Von
Notzing, which may be seen here, and which are as good, I think, or
even better than any that have been done in England. At present,
however, they only form a short series, the work of one subject, and may,
I hope, be duly extended. During a course of 40 seances they showed
various of these experiments to 70 witnesses, many of them people of
importance in Munich, and obtained a very favourable verdict on their
results.
But their experimental researches have taken a further and most '
important step. In their 33rd seance they obtained a most unexpected
success, involving, as it seemed, what. we should call true independent
clairvoyance. The subject was Fraulein Lina, the same young woman
who had acted for them throughout in these telepathic experiments,
and I believe it was at her suggestion that this extension of the
experiments was tried. She was hypnotised by Von Notzing and in a
lethargic state, Two of the gentlemen who had come to watch and
criticize the experiments bandaged her eyes with a soft cloth, watched
them throughout, and were li!&tisfied that she could read nothing with
them. When she was in this state of hypnotism she was told that her
sense of sight had been transferred from her eyes to the top of her
head, and that she would find herself, in consequence, able to read ,with
the top of her head. Then another gentleman, a witness and critic,
took a book from the shelves at random, and without looking at it or
opening it, so as to avoid all possibility of thought-transference, gave
it to her. She took it in both hands, lifted it, opened it, and laid it on
her head with the open pages touching the top of the head. She
moved it slowly enough to make it possible in some cases for a stander-
by to turn over a page or two after the book was lifted out of the
range of vision that was possible, even if she could have seen through
her bandage, and before it was laid down on the crown of her head.
After keeping it for some minutes in this position, touching her head, she
gave utterance to a few words of that part of the open pages which
was touching her head, which were noted at the time and confirmed
afterwards as correct. This seemed to involve great effort and was
followed generally by cramps and signs of pain, and after as much as
a line had been read she generally fell back exhausted and was allowed
to sleep. She seemed somewhat relieved by assurances that no harm
would come of it, but generally on waking felt very uncomfortable,
with, as she said, "her head open and a heavy weight on it." This
experiment was repeated several times with equal success and would
Digitized by Google
May,1888.] JO'IJ/mat of Society for Psychical &search. 261
have been repeated even more often but for the subsequent discomfort
of the subject, who is a delicate woman and whom they were anxious
not to over-tire. Von Novnng mentions by name six of the more
eminent witnesses who expressed themselves very well satisfied with
the conditions and results. Most of the experiments were made in
full light, but one which was in complete darkness was considered
equallysuccessful. The subject found it easier to read large print than
small, and that tended to show that the physical difficulties of this
so-called "transposed" sense of sight were in some respects the same
as those of the normal sense. It was considered possible by the
observers that the phenomena might be explained by an extremely
exaggerated delicacy of the sense of touch, whereby the impressions of
the type on the paper could be perceived and read by the surface of
the head. ,This was taken into consideration, and tested by giving the
subject a perfectly smooth photograph of print to read (instead of a
printed paper), and also a piece of printed paper covered by a sheet of
glass between the paper and the head. In both of these cases
hyperacuity of the sense of touch would have been of no ava.il towards
reading, nevertheless success was obtained in these also j and the
hypothesis of reading by touch in the other cases may, I think, be put
out of court. I am not certain that the words read in these last two
cases were completely unknown to all those present, so that I have no
right to say that the hypothesis of thought-transference was impossible
in these special cases. That leads me up to what I should consider as
the most important of all the precautions in these experiments, I mean
the care taken to exclude any process of thought-transference. The
hypothesis that such a power as thought-transference existed was
constantly present to those who had the direction of the experiments,
and special care was taken to eliminate that one from the many and
great difficulties of a trial of true independent clairvoyance,-the
perception, that is, of something that is not known to anyone else and
is not attainable under the existing circumstances by the ordinary
action of the senses. The words of a printed book taken down from
a library shelf at random and opened at random, when out of reach of
the powers of perception of all others, at any rate, than the subject,
and whose open pages are touching the top of the head of the subject
when they are read-or, perhaps I should say, in less precise language,
when they become knoWB,-otrer, I think, a very good example of
matter tha.t cannot be conveyed by thought-transference from anyone
near or far. The method of its perception can probably be tested,
. though not without its peculiar difficulties, by frequent repetition and
painstaking caution in a small and trustworthy private circle of
inquirers.
Digitized by Google
j!62 JO'Urnal 0/ Society /0'1' Psychical Resea/rch. [May, 1888.
The elimination of the possibilities of thought-transference from
experiments such as these when once it has been resolved upon, is a
ma.tter which can genera.lly be carried out, but which leaves behind
some of the peculiar difficulties of this class of cases, the difficulties of
perfectly accurate observation for a considerable time of the motions
of the subject, often spasmodic, variable, and apparently &imless, and
the difficulties of estimating and &11owing due scope for hypel'leSthesia
in any of the senses, but more specially in that of sight, which we have
found in other cases so strangely penetrating. beyond our expectation.
Some four years ago we investigated the case of what was called
" second-sight" in a colliery labourer, the "pit-boy Dick." When he
was hypnotised and had his eyes bandaged with what might be called
reasonable care, he was nevertheless able to discriminate a playing
card held some four or five feet in front of him, and it was not till
Mrs. Sidgwick IIond Mr. Hodgson made some experiments upon them-
selves as to their capacities of seeing things, when they were in a
normal condition, with their eyes bandaged, that the extreme limits of
what was possible in a normal condition, and a jortWri in a hypnotic
condition, were at all fully realised by some of us. That the subject,
asin the case of" Pitboy Dick," should be perfectly honest in~magining
himself to be seeing with something that is not his eyes, is one of a class
of illusions with which we are tolerably familiar ; and even if his
judgment is incorrect as to the means whereby he saw, that is nothing
whatever necessarily to his discredit.
The courteous offers of personal observation which the Munich
inquirers made to us seemed to our President and Mrs. Sidgwick an
opportunity not to be neglected, for we have had no such carefully
conducted experiments of this class in England which have had any
success, and I had the pleasure of accompanying them to Munich. On
the evening of our arrival, March 17th, we had our first seance
in the private drawing-room of Herr Keller, with the same unpaid
subject, Fraulein Lina.; in company with our hostess Frau Keller,
Baron du Prel, Herr Hiibbe Schleiden, who kindly introduced us, and
Baron von Notzing, who acted as agent. On first seeing Fraulein
Lina it was plain that we had happened on a very unfortunate
occasion. She was obviously out of health; feverish, restless, un-
comfortable, though very willing to submit to any experiments. Her
friends were quite unfamiliar with this condition of illness in her, they
were somewhat anxious about her, and, very justly as I thought,
considered it an inappropriate time for severe test experiments. We
were first shown in outline the method used in this so-ca.lled reading
with the top of the head, but the conditions did not allow of its exact
application and no results were obtained or expected. The next day
Digitized by Google
May,1888·1 JO'IJI1"1Wl of Society for P8ychical Research. 263
a sharp inflammation of the lungs developed itself in Friiulein Lina
and there were'signs of serious underlying disease. We waited for the
next five days in Munich in hopes of better fortune, but Fraulein Lina
-was entirely confined to her bed and there could be no doubt that
-experiments were quite impoBBible; and so in that direction we could
go no further. We had the pleasure, however, of extending our
acquaintance among the active members of the Psychological Society
at Munich, the Baron and BaroneBB du Prel, Herr .Bayersdorfer, the
keeper of their fnmous picture gallery and PreRident of their Society;
Herr Deinhard, and others; and we learnt from the lips of Baron von
NoWng some more details of the reading experiments with Friiulein
Lina and of the other seances, which left us in no doubt that the
~nduct of these important matters W!lo8 in very good hands and that
the necessjties of caution and the very great difficulties of proof
.absolute were duly appreciated.
I have tried to give a very slight sketch of some fresh observations
"Which seem to point towards what is generally called Transference of
the Senses, in a particular case which has come more specially under
recent notice. It would be quite out of place to attempt now to
review the whole history and present condition of that most difficult
and vexed problem of the so-called transference of the special senses
"from one part of the human body to another.
It was just a. hundred years ago last Ohristmas, that M. Petetin,
a doctor in Lyons, found one of his lady patients in a state that looked
"like eager delirium without any serious disease (Petetin: Elecllr.
Animale, p. 7). She seemed entirely incapable of hearing a.nything
whatever that was said to her and was a great puzzle and anxiety to
her doctor. She shouted and sang, loud and often, and Petetin, sitting
by her bedside, could find no means of controlling her. He urged her
to attend to him and to listen to what he had to tell her, but she did
not seem to hear a word he said. Suddenly the chair he was sitting
-on slipped by accident and he fell forward on his face on to the bed
where she was lying, and before he could raise himself from this
-position he exclaimed, "How I wish I could stop her cries!" For the
'first time, apparently, she heard him then, and to his great astonish-
ment answered at once. "Oh certainly, I will stop," she said, and
stop she did, quite obediently. He was very much puzzled at first,
for after this she could apparently hear nothing more that he shouted
into her ears or even into her ear-trumpet. He came to the conclusion
-that she had heard him when he was thrown forward on the bed
'because of his unusual position, because in fact his head had been close
1:.0 the pit of her stomach when he had been speaking, just after his
Digitized by Google
26~ Journal of Society jO'1' Psychical Research. [May. 1888.
fall forwards. This impression was confirmed in him as he found that.
when he tried to speak to her again, quite low, but in a similar relative
position, she could hp.s.r him well' enough. Her sense of hearing, he
concluded, was shifted from her ears to the pit of her stomach. On
subsequent trials he found she could also hear him when he whispered
to her fingers or to the soles of her feet, though she seemed to remain
quite insensible to what he whispered or shouted into her ears or said
in ordinary fashion when speaking to her face to face.
Such a history as this first case of Petetin's does not seem to us.
now to need any such violent hypothesis as that of transference of
senses, or indeed any explanation beyond that of the curious illusions
and hyperresthesia! of hysteria.
Other examples of phenomena which, according to the fashion of the
time, ,were interpreted as Transference of Sensations, i.e., similar
localisation of special senses in abnormal parts, were frequently ~
ported after this; in some the sense of smell seemed confined entirely
to the fingers, the sense of sight to the forehead or ~he pit of the
stomach, and many strange stories of this kind were current, especia.lly
in France in the first half of this century. I cannot pretend to have
adequate grounds for forming a judgment in nearly every case, but in
those I know, when sufficient details are given, it is possible to satisfy
the conditions of the acquisition of knowledge by a.n abnormal
quickening of one sense and blunting of another, or at least, by a.
thought-transference if by no more direct method, for the ma.tter
concerned was known or knowable to one of the experimenters, who..
as a rule, was seeking to test the existing knowledge of the subject in.
the case or to convey fresh knowledge to him.
Among the more scientifically accurate records of recent years;
there has been very little of independent clairvoyance under the strictest
conditions devised to eliminate thought-transference. The interest,.
then, of the case which Baron von Notzing has recorded and with
which we made this endeavour to acquaint ourselves personally, lies in
a careful attempt which has been made in it to exclude, what I
think many of us w-ould admit has been one possible source of error
in similar previous experiments, viz., Thought-transference; and any
importance of the conclusions arises from the fact that, supposing it
has been possible, which is not a light supposition, to make perfect.
experiments and to put out of the question all the possibilities of
illusion on one side ~nd mal-observation on the other, some phe-
nomena. remain which point rather to independent clairvoyance than
to thought-transference. How importa.nt it would be to multiply sucb
observations with .ever-increasing caution, I feel strongly; for t~
Digitized by Google
May,I888.] Journal of Society fOT Psychical ReseaTch. ,265
difference between independent clairvoyance and thought-transference,
I cannot help thinking, is, in the present state of our knowledge, very
important, and a.ny proof of true independent clairvoyance, so long as
there a.re any indications that it is not impossible, is a matter deserving
our very careful attention.
Mrs. Sidgwick followed with the first part of a paper on
IC Premonitions."
'CASES SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L 323
-t-
From MR. R. V. BoYLE.
3, Stanhope-terrace, W.
July 30th, 1884.
In India, early on the moming of November 2nd, 1868 (which would be-
about 10 to 11 p.m. of November 1st in England), I had so clear and striking
a dream or vision (repeated a seeond time after a short waking interval) that,.
on rising as usual between 6 and 7 o'clock, I felt impelled at onc~ to write an
entry in my diary, which is now before me.
At the time referred to my wife and I were in Simla, in the Himalayas..
the summer seat of the Governor-General, and my father-in-law and mother-·
in-law were living in Brighton. We had not heard of or from either of them
for weeks, nor had I been recently speaking or thinking of them, for there
was no reason for anxiety regardinl( them.*
It seemed in my dream that I stood at the open door of a bedroom in a.
house in Brighton, and that before me, by candlelight, I saw my father-in-law-
lying pale upon his bed, Whild my mother-in-law passed silently across the,
room in attendance on him. The vision soon paBSed away, and I slept on
for some time. On waking, however, the nature of the impression left upon.
me unmistakably was that my father-in-law was dead. I at once noted down
the dream, after which I broke the news of what I felt to be a. revelation to.
my wife, when we thought over again and again all that could bear upon the-
matter, without being able to assign any reason for my being so stronglyand
thoroughly impressed. The telegraph from England v) Simla had been open.
for some time, but now there was an interruption, which lasted for about a.
fortnight longer, and on 17th (15 days after my dream) I was neither'
unprepared nor surprised to receh'e a telegram from England, saying that my
father-in-law had died in Brighton on November 1st. Subsequent letters.
showed that the death occurred on the night of the 1st..
Dreams, as a rule, leave little impression on me, and the one above-
referred to is the only one I ever thought of making a note of, or oflooking
expectantly for its fulfilment.
*It is right, however, to say that my wife's father had gone to Brighton
some months before on account of his health, though he was not more delicate<
than his elder brother, who is (1884) still living.
Digitized by Google
~66 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical R4earch. [May. 1888.
I maymention that at a much earlier periodof my life I was sitting occupied
in a room of a house, from which I could not see the approach to the hall
~oor, when suddenly my thoughts were arrested, and I turned away from my
papers, feeling that a person whom I had not been thinking of, nor had seen
for years, was at that moment within a few steps of the house, noiselessly, but
rapidly, approaching. Ilistened inteutly for a knock, which instantlyfollowed.
I did not move from my seat, feeling satisfied that what did follow would
follow, viz., that a servant immediately afterwards announced the heretofore
invisible. but unaccountably sudden, expected visitor. These occurrences I
have often thought over, without being able in any way 00 satisfactorily
&ccount for them; they stand out in relief upon a memory but lightly
~harged with, though not insensible to, such things.
R. VICARY BoYLE.
Mrs. Boyle writes as follows :-
6th. Attgtt,8t, 1887.
I well remember my husband telling me one morning, early in November,
1868, when at Simla. in India, that he had had a striking dream (repeated) in
which my father, then at Brighton, seemed to be dying. We were both deeply
.impressed and then anxiously awaited news from home. A telegram first
i'eached us, in about a fortnight, which was afterwards confirmed by letters
-telling of my father's death having occurred on the same night when my
husband had the dream.
ELJiONORE A. BoYLE.
The following entries were copied by me from Mr. Boyle's diary:-
Nov. 2. Dreamed of E's F[ather] early this morning.
Written before dressing.
Nov. 17. Got telegram from L[ouis] H[ack] this morning
-of his father's death on 1st Nov. inst.
i/o the night of
The following obituary notice of the decease of Mr. Boyle's father-in-law
<occurred in the Times for 4th November, 1868:-
"On 1st Nov., at Brighton, William Hack, late of Dieppe, aged 72."
On September 17th, 1887, I received from Mr. Boyle a copy (made by
Miss P. Hack, niece of the deceased) of an entry mad9 by his mother
(sister-in-law of deceased) in her journal, on Sunday, November 1st, 1868,
which shows the hour of death. In this entry, after BOrne details of the last
aoura, occur the words: "At a few minutes after 2 o'clock [p.m.] he
~eased to breathe."
.Mr. Boyle informed me that he is a "particularly sound sleeper, and
'Very rarely dreams." This dream was a very unique and impreuive ex-
perience, apart from the coincidenee.
There was a regular correspondence between Mrs. Boyle and her mother,
"but for several mails the letters had contained no mention of her father, on
whose account absolutely no anxiety was felt.
E.G.
*These three words were added above the lineafter thesubsequent receipt of
the letter. But there must apparently have been some mis)lDderstandinJU as
the evidence which follows seems conclusive as to the hour of the death. [~D.]
Digitized by Google
'May, 1888] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 267
L 324 From MR. E. W. HAMILTON.
-t- Park-lane Chambers, Park-lane, W.
April 6th, 1888.
On Tuesday morning, March 20th, 1888, I woke up with the impressioD
~f a very vivid dream. I h~d dreamt that my brother, who had long been
in Australia, and of whom I had heard nothing for several months, had come
home; that after an absence of12 years and a-half he was very little altered
in appearance, but that he had something wrong with one of his arms; it
looked horribly red near the wrist, his hand being bent back.
When I got up that morning the dream recurred constantly to my
thoughts, and I at last determined to take a note of it, notwithstanding my
.natural prejudices against attaching any importance to dreams, to which,
indeed, I am not much subject. Accordingly, in the course of the day, I
made in my little Letts' diary a mark thus: X, with my brother's name
.after it.
On the following Monday morning, the 26th March, I received a letter
,from my brother. which bore the date of the 21st March, and which had
been posted at Naples (where the Orient steamers touch), informing me that
he was on his way home, and that he hoped to reach London on or about
the 30th March, and adding that he was suffering from a very severe attack
of gout in the left arm.
The next day I related to some one this curious incident, and I commen-
ted on the extraordinary coincidence of facts with the dream with all but one
.detail, and that was, that the arm which I had seen in my dream did not look
.as if it were merely a.ft'ected with gout : the appearance it had presented to me
was more like extremely bad eczema.
My brotherduly reached England on the 29th, having disembarked at
Plymouth owing to the painful condition of his arm. It turned out that
the doctor on board ship had mistaken the case; it was notgout, but a case of
blood poisoning, resulting in a very bad carbuncle or absceBB over the wrist
join~ .
Since my brother's return, I have endeavoured to ascertain from him the
exact hour at which he wrote to me on March 21st. He is not certain
whether the letter to me was written before noon or after noon of that day.
He remembers writing four short letters in the course of that day-two
before luncheon and two after luncheon. Had the note addressed to me
been written in the forenoon, it might nearly have coincided in time with my
dream, if allowance be made for the difference of tim" between Greenwich
and Naples; for, having no recollection of the dream when I woke, according
to custom, at an early hour on the morning of the 21st, I presume I must
have dreamt it very little befo,re eight o'clock, the hour at which.! am
called.
I may add that, notwithstanding an absence of 12 years and a-half, my
brother has altered very little in appearance; and that I have not to my
knowledge ever noted a dream before in my life.
E. W. H.uo:LTON.
I have seen the diary with the entry (X, Clem) under Tuesday, March
20th, 1888, though, as Mr. Hamilton says, "it was early the next morning
Digitized by Google
268 Journal of &ciety for P8ychical &search. [May, 1888.
that I had the dream; for I generally consider all that appertains to bed
relates to the day on which one gets into it."
I have seen the letter, signed Clement E. Hamilton, and dated Naple~
March 21st, 1888, which says, "Am suffering from very severe attack of
gout in left arm."-E. G.
April 12th, 1888.
L 325 From MR. G. LBVESON GOWER.
-t- 14, South Audley-street, W.
March, 31st, 1888.
I was asked to give you an account of an incident which happened to me
on the occasion of the death of my aunt, the late Lady Marian Alford. The-
date of this was, I fancy, Wednesday, February 8th, tllough this could
easily be verified. On that day I had gone down in the afternoon to Surrey,
to speak at a political meeting at a place called Oxted. After the meeting
was over, and as we were driving away, I was suddenly seized with a strong
feeling which I can describe in no other way than a vivid. sense of the pre-
sence of death: it seemed to me that in some way and'on some person
unknown to me death wu exercising at that moment ita power. I put the
thought aside, but it recurred so powerfully that 1 looked at my watch,which
was then 10.5 p.m. On my return to London next morning 1 found that
my deal" aunt had died, after a seizure of only a few hours, the Bame evening,
if not at the precise time, a very short while before the hour 1 looked at my
watch. Had I known that she was ill1 should not have thought this event.
worth repeating, but I had not the Blightest knowledge of her illness. Her
family, including myself, had latterly known that her life was precarious,
but we none of us anticipated this sudden and fatal attack. Curiously
enough, however, a friend of mine, Mrs. G., had been for some while very
dangerously ill ; and at the time of this sentiment (I can hardly call it &
presentiment) 1 was convinced that my friend had died. This was so strong
that on my return home, when 1 saw by my father's face that something
serious had happened, 1 at once concluded that Mrs. G. was dead. She
is now, 1 am glad to say, out of danger, and well on the way to recovery.
G. LEVESON GOWER.
Mr. Leveson Gower adds, on April 12th, 1888 :-In reply to your ques-
tion, 1 have never to my recollection had a similar impression to that which
I related to you-though, of course, 1 may have forgotten such an instance.
The following is an interesting case of the violent fright of an animal,
occurring at the time of an abnormal appearance.
G 316
-t-
From Man and Beaat. By the REV. J. G. WOOD. (London: Dalby,
labister and Co., 1874.) Vol. II., pp. 339-343.
1 have (writes Mr. Wood) for a long time had in my possession a letter
from a lady, in which she narrates a personal adventure which has a singularly
elose resemblance to the Scripture story of Balaam. • • • At the time
Digitized by Google
liay,l888.] JO'lJlT"nal of Society for Psychical Research. 269
of the occurrence the lady and her mother were living in an old country
oMteau in France.
..It was during the winter of 18- that one evening I happened to be
sitting by the side of a cheerful fire in my bedroom, busily engaged in
earessing a favourite cat-the illustrious Lady Catherine, now, alas! no more.
She lay in a pensive attitude and a winking state of drowsiness in my lap.
Although my room might be without candles it was perfectly illuminated
by the light of the fire.
There were two doors-one behind me leading into an apartment wpich
had. been looked up for the winter, and another on the opposite side of the
room, which communicated with the passage.
Mamma had not left me many minutes, and the high-backed, old-
fashioned armchair which she had occupied remained vacant at the opposite
-corner of the fire-place. Puss, who lay with her head upon n1yarm, became
more and more sleepy, and I pondered on the propriety of preparing for bed.
Of a. sudden I became aware that something had affected my pet's
.equanimity. The purring ceased, and she exhibited rapidly increasing
.symptoms of uneasiness. I bent down and endeavoured to coax her into
~uietness, but she instantly struggled to her feet in my lap, and spitting
vehemently, with back arched and tail swollen, she assumed a mingled
attitude of terror and defiance.
The change in her position obliged me to raise my head, and on looking
up, to my inexpressible horror, I then perceived a little, hideous, wrinkled
-old hag occupied mamma's chair. Her hands were resting on her knees and
her body was stooped forward so as to bring her face into close proximity
with mine. Her eyes, piercingly fierce and shining with an overpowering
lustre, were steadfastly fixed on me. It was as if a fiend were glaring at
me through them. Her dress and general appearanee denoted her to belong
to the French bourgeoisie; but those eyes, so wonderfully large, and in their
expression so intensely .wicked, entirely absorbed my senses and precluded
any attention to detail. I should have screamed, but my breath was gone
while that terrible gaze so horribly fascinated me. I could neither withdraw
my eyes nor rise from my seat.
I had meanwhile been trying to keep a tight hold on the cat, but she
seemed resolutely determined not to stay in such ugly neighbourhood. and
after som.e most desperate efforts, at length succeeded in escaping from my
grasp. Leaping over chairs and tables and all that came in her way, she
repeate«ly threw herself with frightful violence against the top panel of the
door which communicated with the disused room. Then, returning in the
same frantic manner, she furiously dashed against the door on the opposite
aide. My terror was now divided, and I looked by turns, now at the old
woman whose great staring eyes were constantly fixed on me, and now at the
oat, who was becoming every instant more frantic. At last the dreadful idea
that the animal had gone mad had the effect of restoring my breath, and I
screamed loudly.
Mamma ran in immediately, and the cat, on the door opening, literally
.prang over her head, and for upwards of half-an-hour ran up and down
Digitized by Google
270 JOU)'nUl of Society for Psychical &search. [May, 1888.
stairs as if pllrllued. I turned to point out the object of my terror ; it was.
gone. Under such circumstances the lapse of time is difficult to appreciate~
but I should think that the apparition lasted about four or five minutes.
Some time afterw&l'da it tr&Jl8pired that a former proprietor of the h01Ul8~
a woman, bad banged herself in that very room.
We ascertained from Mr. Wood the name of his informant, and wrote to-
her brother, General K., from whom we received the following reply :-
January 2:t.t, 1885.
SIB,-I hasten to enclose a communication from Mias K., which I
received by this morning's post, and have only to add that my sister doeS'
not appear to have previously he&l'd of Mr. Wood's book, and was quite-
unaware of her story having been publiahed. .
The circumstances narrated occurred in an old house in Boulogne-sur-
Mer, I fancy about 1845. It was, I think, in 1858 that Mias A., a friend
of Mr. Wood, asked me to give her the story in writing. I thereupon
wrote to my siaterand got her tc, send me an exact account of what happen~
and a copy ofthis account, with a few trivial emendations, I gave to Mias A.
From that moment until you Wlote to me I had not heard of it, nor did
f know what bad become of it.
Mr. Wood's book, Man and Beut, I saw for the first time last night, and
the account given there is word for word the same as I gave to Mias A.
The apparition was once again seen by Mias K. in the same hOUBe and
under extremely singular circumstances.
J. W.A. K.
The enclosure is as folloWB :-
I was one evening sitting by my bedroom fire, nursing a pet cat, which
was sleeping on my lap. Suddenly she struggled to her feet, and standing-
on my knees, swelled her tail out in my face, and exhibited the usual signs
of fear, as if a dog bad been facing her. I stroked and spoke to her, but her
fear evidently increased, so that I could scarcely hold her. I then became-
aware that a very ugly old woman was sitting on the chair at the other side-
of the fire-place, her hands on her knees and staring fixedlyatUB. I was too-
frightened to ICream, but tried still harder to hold pussy. 1 had. however~
weakened my hold, aud she made her escape, bounding into the middle of
the room, and rushed wildly between the doors. against each of which she-
dashed herself as if to force an exit. This violent scene gave me breath; I
screamed, and when my mother came in the cat leaped past her, and ran up-
and down stairs for BOme time as if mad. I need not add that when my
mother came in the old woman bad vanished.
In reply to further inquiries, Mias K. writes, on January 31st, 1885.
Boulogne-sur-Mer.
DEAR SIR,-I very much regret not to be able to answer the very
interesting questions you put to me with regard to the account of my inter-
view with the ghost, but my health has for some time been weak. and
writing is a very great weariness to me.
I quite well remember Wliting the account you speak of, many years ago.
Digitized by Google
May,l888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 271
for a friend. It was a strictlyaccurate account, not in the least embellished,
and you are quite welcome to publish either, or both accounts, but I object
to my name appearing in print.
H.K.
Miss K. writes further in February, 1886 :-
The second apparition occurred at the time of the serious illness of one or
the members of our family. I was leaving the patient's room for the last time
that night when I met the old woman in the passage, but the sight caused no
emotion. I was too anxious to be frightened. I was, however, reminded or
it next day by the sick nurse-a French nun-when she told us that not
only she, but her patient also, had had a most disturbed night, owing to iii
succession of noises, such as rustling garments and footsteps in the roOJR~
and that her patient, ueually quietly dozing, was constantly calling out to-
ask who was in the room. She declared she would not sit up alone another
night. This was the more remarkable that she had some time before
expressed her determination to leave us if one of our party continued to sit
up with her, a9 she wished to be allowed the sole control of the sick room,
and in consequence she had been left alone till that night. She, however,
saw nothing, only heard.
I have seen other * apparitions, and am not aware of having hact
hallucinations.
H. K.
GENERAL K. writes again :- -
Poste Restante, Florence, Italy.
Marek l.8t, 1886.
According to the account Miss K. gave me of the occurrence
mentioned in her note, the garde malade (since dead) said that her
patient had been in a state ofintense alarm during the night, calling for help
against an old woman that wanted to kill him ; the same added that she
would not again go through such a night alone on any account. Miss K. also
told me that she first perceived the old woman ascending the stairs in front or
her; that she followed the apparition, who passed into the sick room and
there disappeared.
With regard to the old house at Boulogne, I find that it has since been
divided into two houses, and it may perhaps be useful to add that I and, to
my knowledge, others have had repeatedly therein personal experience of
strange sounds. at night which it was never possible to account for.
J. W.A.K.
CASE OF A "DOUBLE" SEEN BEFORE DEATH.
In the following case, it is quite possible that the proximity in time of the
apparition and the death was accidental; and Ule form of the apparition
certainly suggeststemporary ocular derangement. The point which ought 88
far as possible to be ascertained, is whether appearances of this type, occurring
shortly before·the death of the person represented, are too frequent to be
dismissed as purely subjective hallucinations.
* It is probable that the word no has been accidentally omitted before other.
Digitized by Google
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1888.
From MRS. CHAPRONIERE.
2, Hotham-vilIas, Putney.
Apt'il 14th, 1888.
I was in my bedroom being undressed by my maid, Mrs. Gregory, who
had been with me for 41 years, and she was unfastening my bracelet when I
saw, just behind her about two feet off, her exact resemblance. She was
then in perfect health. I said to her, "Why, Mrs. Gregory, I see
your fetch." She smiled and said, "Really, ma'am," but was not in the
least alarmed. On the following Sunday, she was only poorly. I went for
a doctor at once, who said she was a little out of sorts. On Wednesday
evening she suddenly died. It was abo:ut the same time that her double had
appeared to me just a week before. This was about 15 years ago.
SOPHIE CHAPRONIERE.
I have seen Mrs. Cbaproniere, and questioned her about the case. She
told me that she had never had a hallucination of vision on any other occa-
aion. The "double" was as distinct as the real person, and an exact
:reproduction. The deat.h was yery sudden. Mrs. Gregory had. been slightly
unwell for a couple of days before it took place, but was able to enjoy her
food, and no anxiety was felt on her acceunt. A daughter of Mrs. Chap-
roniere states that she clearly remembers that her mother mentioned the
apparition at once, before the death.-E.G.
April 24th, 1888.
THE DISTURBANCES AT' BRAMFORD, IN SUFFOLK.
In November and December, 1887, paragraphs appeared in several
London and provincial newspapers, giving accounts of mysterious occur-
-ences in a cottage occupied by a widow and her fanl.ily, at Bramford, near
Ipswich. Stones and dirt were reported to be thrown at the windows,
.and small household goods and articles of clothing were tossed about the
premises. A member of the Society paid a visit to the spot to make
inquiries. He made the acquaintance of the occupants of the "haunted"
house, however, and verY carefully examined the witnesses. His conclusion,
,after hearing all the evidence obtainable, was that the children-a girl of
11, and two younger boys-had practised trickery.
Digitized by Google
