{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1linda_f_fde.html","mytitle":"Linda F FDE 5136\/6623","mylang":"de"}
          	        Linda F FDE 5136/6623  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Linda F FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			2673 Linda F FDE 5136/6623  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 6623  					</p>  					I jumped off the side of a pool at my high school. At the 7 ½' below level I found myself unable to move. I tried to swim and could not move. I believed in my mind that I was going to drown. Then a strange thing happened. It was like a wave washed over me and I had this sense of peacefulness hit me. I remember thinking, 'I'll try one more thing and, thinking calmly, if it doesn't work then I'll just have to drown.' There was no fear. I didn't think about my parents, siblings, my pets, or anything else. It was all so unimportant but so peaceful a feeling. I tried to push myself to a position and I started to try swimming the doggy paddle and very slowly found myself heading towards the surface. It felt like I was in slow motion; still holding my breath all the while. When I reached the top one of the girls standing there said to me, 'How long were you down there? I didn't see you jump in.'

I ignored her question because I was so confused at what had just happened to me. I walked over to the swim coach standing on the other side of the pool. I told him that when I jumped off the side of the pool into the water I was stuck underwater for a while and I couldn't seem to swim or move anywhere.  He said it sounded like some kind of bounce problem. I didn't mention the strange peaceful feelings that came into me at the idea of drowning. I never felt so calm and at peace as at that time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drowning  life threatening in a sense of believing that I was going to die.  Other life threatening in a sense of believing that I was going to die.  I drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It seemed that my mind was extremely clear and that this was the end; like clicking on a switch. My belief that I was going to die because no one knew I was down there in the pool to help me. Then, poof, I didn't care anymore. I felt that it really didn't matter if I drowned or not. I had no fear of drowning or panicky feelings what so ever.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was almost ready to panic because I didn't know how long I could hold my breath.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lost meaning to me and things seemed to slow down.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The same.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme peacefulness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I just seemed to not care about anything in particular not even dying.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other faiths- New age   I was not brought up with any particular religious belief. My mother was brought up with the Catholic church. Attended Catholic school. Etc. We did not attend church - my mother did not drive. Father had Catholic background, but did not attend church.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more aware of other peoples NDE stories when they say that a peaceful calmness occurred during or right before their NDEs. I know what that feels like.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I feel that I am a spiritual person believing in a god. At the time of my experience I just believed in a higher powerful being - keeping an open mind to all religions.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Never knew a peace existed like I had felt at that moment in the pool.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I felt a great push to read and learn more about life after death not just because of my experience in the pool but also because of my father's suicide and my mother's death a year later.  I had two extra sensory dreams about my father's suicide before it happened. The third time I dreamed it, it was for real. My mother dreamed that her only brother was killed in a field in Korea during the war. Her uncle came to her to tell her and she said I know my brother is dead. I saw him standing in a field and something flew through the air and killed him. Her uncle told her yes he was killed by a mortar shell. ESP runs in my family on my mother's side. I use to have other ESP events that also came true. But no longer occur with me anymore.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     A feeling that there is nothing to fear about death. A connection with everything that this life is important but its not everything that there is more ahead to learn and as I said before - feelings of extreme peace lies ahead for us.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Seemed to me that god was just making things unthreatning for me. That a higher power was taking control of my feeling. My emotional me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there is something more to this world of consciousness then people understand. I believe in life after death for another reason. This experience happened in 1975. In 1981, my father committed suicide in his work truck outside on our front lawn. A few days after his funeral his bedroom door slammed shut all by itself. Everyone one in our family had just gotten home from some place and we had a friend and her mother there as well. We all were in the living room at the time. My younger brother and I went down the hall into my father's room to see what slammed the door. No windows were open; no pets were there. My father use to slam his door shut because it wouldn't stay closed if he didn't.  Even my very skeptical brothers will not talk about this event because they believe he had come back; giving us a sign that he was still alive somewhere.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I realized that something occurs right before you die. A calming sense comes over you - possibly to make the experience easier to take.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     That all our difficulties and hardships, challenges don't really matter as much as people think they do.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     There was a kind of love feeling, peacefulness a sort of forgiving sense that things that I had done in the past. Were nothing to care about. I was never a bad kid, I never got into trouble, but my parents fought alot and I was never at a place were peace

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I just knew that there is more to dying then meets the eye.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The experience was confusing. I think that the mind (consciousness) has a trigger to be pulled, even just realizing that you are going to die for certain because all other options were tried. Then I tried the doggy paddle and I started to move upwards. Very Strange.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Never felt this way since this experience. Peacefullnes, not careing, just a great freedom a tremendous burden occurs within you.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I dreamed my mother was walking in the hallway hitting my bedroom wall and door and she gets to my door and says, 'Oh, your father is dead outside.' Then she walks to my brother's bedroom door and says the same thing. The third time it was for real. My mother had an ESP event about her only brother who was killed during the Korean War. Mine started in 1981 with my father's death. I may have just been born with ESP.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just that my experience and belief is a good one as far as peaceful experiences to look forward to; but not knowing how long it will last even after death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I would say years later, maybe 10 years or so.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   All I remember is that I bought Dr. Moody's book, Life After Life, not long after my father's suicide; because of my experience and the slamming of his bedroom door after his death. I may have heard of them before his book but I cannot remember. I have always had an open mind, even as a child, to the unexplained events that I had heard about (even about UFOs).

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Never to this day have I ever felt that way again; the peaceful feelings.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, that's about it.    

  Experience Description 5136  					</p>  I jumped off side of pool into the water. I was trying to swim and not going anywhere. For some reason, I couldn't move, and I realized that no one knew I was down in the water, unable to swim anywhere. I was trying and trying to swim, not quite in a panic.

All of a sudden, I stopped thrashing about and remember looking around the empty pool. There were people above talking but not paying any attention to me. They didn't know I was down there. A sudden wave of peaceful calmness came over me, and I remember saying to myself, 'So this is what it's like to drown'. I was okay with it. I thought of nothing.  I didn't think of my parents, friends, or anyone else.  It was a very calm attitude. I felt like I never had before. I had no worries anymore, just a matter of fact attitude and acceptance of a certain death. Then I said to myself, 'Well, I'll try one more thing to try and get out of this, and if it doesn't work then I guess I'll just have to drown'. 

I decided to try to tip myself upwards and do the doggy paddle, and it started to work. I started moving. It seemed like it was taking forever, but I slowly made it up to the surface. A girl standing with a group of people talking looked at me when I surfaced, and she said to me, 'How long were you down there?' I didn't answer her. I was feeling very odd. I walked over to the swim coach who was standing on the other side of the pool, and I asked him why I jumped off the side and couldn't move under the water. He just looked at me and said, 'It sounds like some kind of buoyancy problem'. 

I didn't tell him about the emotional response that I had had about trying to save myself. I did read about people that had this calm, peaceful attitude before they died and came back, and they were similar feelings to what seemed to happen to me. I think something in my consciousness realized I believed there was no way out of the predicament I was in, and, my head - this was really it!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1975

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Jumped off side of pool into the water. I was trying to swim and not going anywhere.  For some reason I seemed to not be able to move and I realized that no one knew I was down in the water unable to swim anywhere.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' near drowning in pool - 7 1/2 feet under water  If I was under the water any longer than I was I would have run out of air, but luckily I had taken a deep breath before jumping off the side of the pool. At the time I had really come to believe in my mind that I was going to die.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When this wave of complete peace came over me, I felt like I never had before. I had no worries anymore, just a matter of fact attitude and acceptance of a certain death.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful, calm and very accepting of dying.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I firmly believe in life after death. A few days after my dad's burial, my mother, three brothers, sister-in-law, two friends and I had just come home from somewhere. We were all standing in our living room, and suddenly my father's bedroom door slammed shut - just the way he used to slam the door, because it never closed all the way. My young brother and I went and checked out his bedroom to see if any windows were open, or any animals had caused the door to slam shut. We found nothing to cause this. It may sound crazy, but I truly believe that my father had come back to let us know that he was still alive somewhere. Even my skeptical brothers know this happened and can't explain it away.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I firmly believe in life after death. A few days after my dad's burial, my mother, three brothers, sister-in-law, two friends and I had just come home from somewhere. We were all standing in our living room, and suddenly my father's bedroom door slammed shut - just the way he used to slam the door, because it never closed all the way. My young brother and I went and checked out his bedroom to see if any windows were open, or any animals had caused the door to slam shut. We found nothing to cause this. It may sound crazy, but I truly believe that my father had come back to let us know that he was still alive somewhere. Even my skeptical brothers know this happened and can't explain it away.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had two dreams about my dad's suicide out on our front lawn. The third time I woke up and it had come true. I had many other ESP experiences after that, and I was not asleep. Voices a few times warned me about an accident with my car. I had a voice from the outside give me a number on a wheel at an amusement park that came true. There was a phone conversation to my dad about an accident with his car that I dreamt, but only remembered during the actual phone call. I knew every word he was about to say. It was strange.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes.  I didn't care about dying. I should have been in a panic the whole time, but I wasn't, and I really believed I would not be getting out of this one. I was very convinced at that moment.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was believed by my mother and my young brother. My mother also had a psychic dream about her only brother that was killed in the Korean War, when she was young. She saw something come over into the field he was walking through and blow him up. Her uncle had come upstairs to tell her about her brother's death. She told him she already knew about him being dead. He was very surprised - he told her a mortar shell had come into the air and blown her brother up two weeks after he had re-enlisted.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   After my dad's suicide, the Catholic Church would not let his sister give him a service there. I started reading about NDEs when I bought a book called Life After Life, by Raymond Moody.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't have an NDE, but I feel I was going into the beginnings of one.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, that's about it. I have heard of mountain climbers falling and having a peaceful feeling like mine come over them before they hit the ground.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No. This was a good questionnaire.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1linda_f_fde.html