{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 4297","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n51_jun_1888.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N51 June 1888","mylang":"de"}
No. LI.-VOL. m. JUNE, 1888.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
ACCOUNT OF A SPIRITUALISTIC TEST.
SUPPLIED BY MR. ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE.
NELLIE MORRIS.
The following interesting statement of communications received
through various mediums as to a person unknown to the writer, but
whose identity was ascertained by full inquiry, was written at my
request, from notes taken at the time, by my friend, General Lippitt, of
Washington, a gentleman who has ma.de a study of Spiritualistic
phenomena for 30 years. General Lippitt is a lawyer as well as a
soldier, and is equally distinguished in both capacities. In 1834 he
assisted De Toqueville in the preparation of his great work on
Democracy in the United States. In 1849 he was chairman of the
Committee in the Constitutional Convention of California; and he was
Assistant Counsel for the United States in the Department of Justice
from 1877 to 1882. As a soldier he served through the Mexican war
and the war of the rebellion, receiving from the President and Senate
the brevet of brigadier-general. He is the author of four treatises
on various branches of military science, one of which, on "The Special
Operations of War," was highly spoken of by our .Army and Navy
Journal, United Service Gazette, and Satfl,rday Review.
With regard to the case here recorded, I am informed by Mr.
Myers that most of the mediums concerned have been accused of being
impostors. As regards two of them, Mr. Keeler and Mrs. Ross, I am
myself satisfied from repeated observation and test ·that they are
very remarkable mediums. As regards another who is said to have
confessed both her own and other mediums' impostures, General Lippitt
has sent me a letter which is appended to his narrative. General
Lippitt informs me that he is not in the habit of publishing any
accounts of the remarkable seances he has attended, and has only
done so twice in his life. If the numerous tests in the case of "Nellie
Morris" are all the result of imposture, it would imply a continuous
concert and conspiracy between seven different mediums, in order to give
satisfaction to a single individual who was already a Spiritualist, but
from whom no advertisement of the mediums concerned was to be
Z
Digitized by Google
274 JQlwl"ool oj Sooiety for Psyohical Researoh. [June, 1888.
expected. Those who disbelieve all Spiritualistic phenomena will adopt
this theory; but for such persons none but personal evidence will
have any weight.
ALFRED R. W ALLACB.
1827, Jefferson-place, Waahington, D.C.
December 18th, 1887.
Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace.
My DEAR MR. WALucE,-In fulfilment of my promise I now send you a
full statement of how I became acquainted with "Nellie Morris."
In May, 1885, I attended several "materialisation" seances of Mrs.
Beste in this city. Before going further, I should state that my. daughter,
Carrie, had departed this life in July, 1882, at her grandmother's residence
in the interior of New Jersey, and that I am positive that Mrs. Beste knew
nothing of me (except my name), or of my family, orthat I had ever had a
daughter.
At one of these seances,held on the evening of May 8th,a female spirit-form
(veiled, aa usual) came to me, calling me "papa," affectionately greeting me
aa my daughter, and giving me her name. After a few moments' conversa-
tion she retired. Later in the evening I aaked "Daisy," apparently a child-
spirit, whIJ usually comes and talks to the sitters at Mrs. Beste's seances,
whether she had seen the spirit that had come to me aa my daughter Carrie.
She said she had, and gave me a description of her that corresponded with
her appearance in life, and added, spontaneously, "that my daughter had a
dear friend in the •spirit land' named Nellie Morris." In answer to my
questions, she said that Nellie Morris's father had been our Minister to
Turkay for about 11 years: that she was a beautiful and lovely young lady
that had died, she did not know exactly when, but some two or three years
ago, in Philadelphia.
Next day I examined the records of the State Department and found
that E. Joy Morris, of Philadelphia, had been our Minister to Turkey from
1861 to 1870. I at once wrote to two old residents of Philadelphia to know
if E. Joy Morris had a daughter named Nellie. From one of them I
received no answer; and the other replied that he knew nothing whatever
of the family.
At the seance of May 17th, my daughter came to me again. I aaked her
if she knew Nellie Morris. "Yes," she exclaimed, "and she is my best
friend"; adding that they were constantly together. In answer to my
questions she said that Nellie was quite tall and graceful, with beautiful
blonde hair and blue eyes; that she had died of consumption some three
years ago in Philadelphia; that her father had been our Minister to Turkey
during a longer term than any of our Ministers abroad. I informed her
that Daisy had told me about her friend, and that I had written to two
gentlemen in Philadelphia for information about her. She aaked to whom I
had written. I told her. "Papa," she said, .. write to the proprietor of
the Hotel St. George, in Philadelphia, and he will tell you all about her." I
promised to do so, and aaked her where that hotel waa. She pondered for a
Digitized by Google
June,I888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 275
moment and then said, "I think I see Broad-street, and-Walnut-street;
but I am not quite sure."
Next day I wrote as my daughter recommended; simply asking the
hotel proprietor first, whether Mr. E. Joy Morris had had a daughter
Nellie, and second, if so would he describe her to me. In answer 1
received from him the letter appended to this sbtement marked (B).
At the subsequent seance of May 24th, my daughter having again come
to me, 1 told her 1 had had an answer from the hotel proprietor confirming
all she had had told me about Nellie Morris. She seemed much pleased,
and then said that Nellie was an Episcopalian, and that they had sung
togethersome of the Episcopal chants. She then sang for me two or three
versos of an old Venite, and part of the old Gloria in Excelsis chant.
(Although my daughter had died a Catholic, she had been born and brought
up in the Protestant Episcopal Church, which fact the medium could not have
known.)
Afterwards, at the s6ance of May 26th, a tall and graceful spirit form
eame to me saying "Nellie." I asked for her other name. She made
repeated eft"orts to give it but without success. I said, "Is it Nellie
Morris 1" She answered "Yes," and was evidently much ple&lled at
being recognised. I said, " May I stand up by your side 1,t .. What for 1"
she asked. "That I may see how tall you are." "Certainly," she answered.
I did so, and found by comparing her with my own height that she was at
least 5ft. 6in. high. Then followed a long conversation with her
in which two or three members of the circle took part. She cheerfully
answered all the questions that were put to her, and in a manner indicating
a marked individuality and a bright and cultivated mind. Inter multa alia
she told us that she ha.d lost her mother when a baby, that her relations with
her stepmother had not been harmonious, and that her life had been a sad
one, but that " she was happy now"; that her early childhood was passed in
Constantinople, where her father was United States Minister; and that she
had died at the Hotel St. George, in Philadelphia, when she was about
19 years old, of "a galloping consumption" in January, or "at least
in very cold weather," saying this with a shiver. I told her that Carrie had
already spoken to me about her, and that I had received a letter from the
proprietor of the Hotel St. George, corroborating all that Carrie had said.
" Yea," she said, "but he flattered me in one thing. My hair is not
golden, but flaxen." I asked her to give me a lock of it. She could not
then, she said, but would do so at another time.
At the seance of May 28th, Nellie Morris came to me again. I showed
her a photograph of my daughter, asking her if she had ever seen anyone
like it. She said at once, •• It is a picture of my Carrie, but not so pretty as
she is now." Before retiring she asked if I had scissors. I had none, but a
member of the circle seated near me handed me 110 pair, which I placed in her
hands. She then cut oft" for me a lock of her hair, which I have carefully pre-
served. I enclose it herewith for your inspection in an envelope marked (C).
On examining it by daylight I found it to be really flaxen, but with a golden
shimmer in the sunshine. Within the last few days I have examined it
IIogain, and whatever may be the cause, it is cert.ainly n010 more golden than
flaxen.
z 2
Digitized by Google
276 Jou1vnal of Society for Psychical Research. [June,l888.
At a seance held June 16th, Nellie cll.me again, and sang for us the old
Gloria in Excelsis chant entirely through.
The next s6ance of Mrs. Beste that I attended was at Onset, on the
southern coast of Massachusetts. The cabinet was simply a comer of the
room, across which a dark sloth had been stretched. Nellie Morris again
came, giving her name, and saying, "Do you remember me 1 I passed away
with consumption, 19 years old. Am very fond of Carrie."
I saw or heard nothing more of Nellie Morris until March 22nd, 1886,
when I attended a a6ance held in this city by P. L. O. A. Keeler. There was
no cabinet; only a curtain of black muslin, between four and five feet high
hung acroaa a comer of the rocm ; the medium sitting infr(mt of the curtain.
Writings on slips of paper were thrown or handed over the curtain by a
hand that was sometimes visible and sometimes not. All of them were re-
cognised by members of·the circle as coming from departed friends. One of
these writings was addreaaed to me, and signed .. Nellie Morris." I feel per-
fectly sure that the medium had never heard her name mentioned. Since
then, through the same medium, writings have come to me in the same
manner and with the same signature; and all of them in the same feminine
hand.
On the 1st of July, 1886, 011 my way to Onset, Massachusetts, I stopped
over a few hours in Philadelphia. I found the Hotel St. George at the
comer of Broad and Walnut streets. I showed the lock of hair I have men-
tioned to Mr. Ward, thc proprietor, and asked him if he recognised it. He
saidiustantly, "It is Nellie Morris's." Finding him to be a decided sceptic
as to all spirit manifestations, I cut my conversation with him short, asking
him to give me Mrs. E. Joy Morris's address, which he kindly did. I went
at once to her residence, and was politely permitted an interview with her in
company with her daughter. I asked Mrs. Morris if her husband's daughter
Nellie had not died some years since. She allswered in the affirmat.ive. I
remarked that she was said t.o have been a lovely young person. After
hesitating for a moment, she said, "Yes, lovely-in appearance." On my
showing them the lock of hair they both e1claimed at once that it was
Nellie's. I found them entirely ignorant on the subject of spirit manifes-
tations, ~nd they listened with astonishment to my Ilarrative respecting
Nellie Morris's return, and corroborated in every particular the statements
Nellie had made to me, except her intimation of a want of entire harmony
between her stepmother and herself, of which I had made no mention. In
answer to my questions Mrs. Morris said that Nellie attended St. Luke's
(Episcopill) Church; that she was not much of a singer; that she attended
the Church Sunday-school, and she supposed she could sing the chants with
the congregation. Mrs. Morris asked me as to my own daughter's character;
and when I told her that when in good health she was full of fun, and had a
decided talent for good-natured mimicry,she observed that Nelliewas just like
her in this respect, and it was not surprising that they should be attracted to
each other.
This narrative is perhaps already too long, but I cannot close it without
a brief mention of some further facts in the case which I think important.
On the 19th of July, at Onset. Massachusetts, I had a sitting with Mrs.
Carrie M. Twing, a writing medium of unimpeached honesty and honour, to
Digitized by Google
June, 1888.) Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 277
whom my name even was unknown, and who could never have heard of
Nellie Morris. On reaching my lodgings after the .nce and examining
what had been written, I found a long letter beginning "My dear Papa,"
signed •• Carrie"; andIanother one beginning •• My dear Friend," signed
" Nellie," saying, among other things, "Carrie and I are inseparable."
At several subsequent s~ances with Mrs. Twing I received letters through
her hand signed "Nellie Morris," speaking always of Carrie in terms of
great a.1i'ection. At a s~ance with her as a "trance medium" on July 24th,
"Ikabod," an eccentric, but very sensible "control" of hers, who speaks in
a man's voice, said to me, "You have a friend here, Nellie Morris; ahe
was introduced to me by your daughter, who is her companion." And at a
similar IIMnce on July 29th, he said, "Nellie Morris wants to get through
you at her family, who are hard to approach, and she wants to remind you
of the lock of hair she gave you." The members of this "lk~bod circle"
were all strangers to me, and I had never uttered a word to them or to the
medium respectin~ Nellia Morris or her lock of hair. And at a writing
seance with Mrs. Twing on August 1st, in a letter written to me through her
hand, the signature being the pet name of my departed wife(Carrie's mother,
who died in August, 1859), it was said, "Nellie, the dear one of ouradoption,
is a source of perpetual sunshine." I would send you these letters written
through Mrs. Twing, but for the fact that they are written on the same
sheets with others of a private nature purporting to come from near relatives,
and from which they cannot be detached.
On July 10th I had attended a materialisation stSance of Mrs. Ross', at
Onset. I will not occupy space by a minute descriptiun of the conditions
under which she sat. Suffice it to say that they were such as to render
confederacy or deception of ~y kind on the part of the medium physically
impossible; and I had never mentioned Nellie Morris's name to the medium
or to her husband. A female form, veiled, came to me and drew me towards
the curtain. In answer to my inquiry as to who she was she could say only
". Morris." I insisted on having her first name. After some unsuccessful
attempts to give it, she retired, discouraged. I then asked" Bright Star,"
the medium's •• control," to try to obtain for me the spirit's fil'st name. She
reported that it was "Ella." 1 said, .. Are you sure 1 Is it not Helen 1"
"No." "Mayit not be Nellie 1" "Yes; but the name as I hear it from
her is •Ella.' " The spirit then reappeared, and I asked, •• Are you Nellie
Morris 1" She said " Yes," and expressed her joy at being recognised. As
she withdrew, she said, •• I came to holp Carrie; to give her stre~." My
daughter had already come to me and retired.
Next day 1 wrote to Mrs. E. Joy Morris, simply inquiring what Nellie's
real Christian name was, without sayiag why I wished to know. Her
answer, dated July 26th, states that it was" Ella." You will find it appended
to this statement, marked (D).
At a seance of Mrs. Beste, at Onset, on July 25th, Nellie Morris again
eame to me, giving her name. I asked, "Shall I write to your stepmother
to come 1" She answered, "They will not believe. I was not happy with
them," and retired.
On August 1st, in the afternoon, at a materia.lisation seance of Hiss
Digitized by Google
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1888.
Gertrude Berry, at Onset, she came to me again, giving her name as" Nellie
Morris." At a similar seance of Mrs. Huston in the evening of the same day
she came again, giving her name as .. Ella." .As to her other name she said,
" It is somehow gone from me. I am so glad to meet you," and retired.
Afterwa1:ds, in Boston, I attended two materialisation seances of Mrs.
Fairchild, on the 22nd of August ; one in the afternoon, the other in the
evenin!t. During all the time the spirit forms were emerging from
the cabiaet, the medium was walking round the room, and
conversing with members of the circle. I was a stranger to her, and to
every person present. At both of the seances Mrs. Fairchild took me up to
the curt.ain, where stood a spirit form that had pointed to me, and who gave
me her name as "Ell!!."; and, in the afternoon seance, on my asking her if
I had ever known her in this life, she answered" No." "Why, then, do
you come to me 1" She answered, "I am attracted to you. I am a friend
of one belonging to you."
Another fact I wish to state~ Whenever a materialised form has come to
me claiming to be my mother, my wife, or my daughter, I have been received
with an affectionate embrace; but the spirit calling herself" Nellie Morris"
or "Ella" has invariably received me as any modest maiden would in this
life, simply offering me her hand.
A few days ago I addressed a letter to Mrs. E. Joy. Morris, asking in
what month Nellie died, and when her father died. I also stated that
through a trancE.' medium at Onset Nellie had alluded to apprehensions in
regard to one member of the family, speaking of .. shortness of breath,"
" left side," and I expressed a hope to hear that all her family were enjoying
good health. Mrs. Morris's answer to this letter I append to this state-
ment, marked (El.
I regret to have made this narrative so long, but I have thought it best
to err on the safe side by not omitting any detail that seemed to have any
essential bearing on the important and interesting question.
Whether the mysterious being that has been coming to me, calling her-
self" Nellie Morris," is really and indeed the same Nellie Morris, who died
in Philadelphia in January, 1881, you must decide for yourself.
I have prepared this statement from the very full notes I made at the
time of the respective occurrences above related, so that I have entire con·
fidence in its accuracy.
You have full liberty to make any use of this communication, or of any
portion of it, that you may think proper.-With high regard, I am sincerely
yours,
FRANCIS J. LIPPIT'.r.
B.
F. J. Lippitt, Esq. Philadelphia, May 21st, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-Your favour of 18th inst. received.
1. E. Joy Morris, Esq., did have a daughter, Miss "Nellie."
2. She is dead, and died at this hotel about four years ago.
a. Miss Nellie Morris was very beautiful and very much beloved by all
that knew her. She had magnificent golden hair, and light grey eyes, was
Digitized by Google
.Tune, 1888.] Journal oj Society JOT P8ychical Research. 279
more than ordinarily tall-with much grace in appearance and mannen-and
would be an ornament to any eircle.-Youn very respectfully,
JNO. D. WARD.
C.
Lock of hair cut for me from her head in my presence by Nellie Morris,
at Mrs. Beste's seance in Washington, May 28th, 1885.
D.
Wyoming, JttJ,y 26th, 1886.
Mr. Francis J. Lippitt.
DEAR Sm,-My stepdaughter's name was Ella. She was named after her
mother's family name. Her mother was a Miss Ella.
I shall be very glad if you eall on me when we return to the city and have
a longer talk over this matter; so do not fail to come and will be pleased to
hear from you.-YoUrll respectfully,
MRS. E. JOY MORRIS.
E.
837, 18th Broad.street, Philada, December 15th, 1887.
Mr. Francis J. Lippitt.
DEAR Sm,-I received your letter and enclosed piece of paper which
you IIUpPOse is from Nellie. I also enclose a postal written by her, so you
can judge for yourself. In my opinion they are not, while in general
appearance they are not unlike; the letters are formed differently.
I will be very candid with you, and tell you I have no laith in these
things, and I regret, indeed, I am truly sorry, that you allow your nlind to
dwell upon the matter. I have no doubt your lovely daughter is in Heaven,
as I trust Nellie is, and that they both wait for those they loved here, and
the one and only way to reach them, in my mind, is to follow after the
example of that beautiful Humanity that came into this world to teach us how
to live that we may gain Heiven and eternal life, and be for ever with those
loved ones.
Ileel interested in you and your feelings, and would like to know if you
think the writing alike. Nellie was buried on January 7th, 1881. Her
father died just one year after. He was buried on January 3rd, 1882.
Trusting to hear from you again, or if in Philada at any time will be pleased
to have you call.-Yours truly,
MRS. E. JOY MoRRIS.
1700, L·street, N. W., Washington, D.C.
December 20th, 1887.
Professor A. R. Wallace.
My DEAR Sm,-I was a witness to all that General Francis Lippitt has
narrated to you as having occurred (regarding his spirit daughter and Miss
Nellie Morris) in Mrs. M. E. Beste's ~ances in this city, and ktlow that his
statements are true in every particular. This I state, not because you would
be likely yoUrll8lf to question the verity of his statements, but to add strength
to his testimony for those who do not know the General as you do. It was
I who handed to him the scissors of which he speaks to cut the lock off of
Nellie Morris's hair. The General, as well as myself, hall had an immense
experience in spirit manifestations, and here, where he lives, and has the
confidence and respect of all as a man of culture and stem integrity, no one,
Digitized by Google
280 Journal of Society /0'1' Psychical Research. [JUB8, 1888.
not steeped in stupid ignorance and prejudioe, would for a single moment
ohallenge the truth of his statements as he has given them to you.-Very
sincerely yours, P. O. JENKINS, M.D.
Washington, D.C., December 2l.8t, 1887.
Dr. Alfred Russel Wallace, Godalming, England.
DEAR SIR,-My friend, General F. J. Lippitt, has shown me a letter
addressed to you by himself in regard to certain appearances of two forms as
spirits at s~anoes of Mrs. M. Eugenie Beste, held in this oity on the 8th,
17th, 24th, and 28th of May, 1885.
I was present at these ~ances, and can say that I heard most of the oon-
versations of the spirits purporting to be Carrie Lippitt and Nellie Morris. I
particularly well remember the ~anoe at whioh a look of hair was cut from
the head of Nellie Morris. At this s~ance, P. O. Jenkins, Esq., was present,
and handed the scissors for the use of the spirit in severing the look.
I was very muoh interested in the effort of General Lippitt to establish the
identity of Nellie Morris, of the success of whioh I oould only judge by
what was incidenta.Ily uttered by the spirits, and by the disolosures of General
Lippitt himself, after May 8th, 1885.
I cannot say whether Mr. J eDkins was present at all of these s~ances, but
he ooncurs with me in vouohing for the truth of the inoident of the outting of
the lock of hair.
Both of these gentlemen are well known in this oity, and need nf)
vouohers for their oredibility where they are known. As for myself, I must
refer to the racord of my 24 years of servioe in the Treasury of the United
States, and my studies of the phenomena uf Spiritualism sinoe 1845 in proof
of my honest endeavour to state facts as they were.-Very respectfully,
DARIUS LYMAN.
The following letters bear on the oharacter of some of the .. mediums ..
mentioned in the foregoing aooount :-
5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass..
March 25th, 1888.
My DEAR MYERS,-1. I am writing to Bundy for information about
William Beste, Keeler, Mr!!. C. M. Twing, and Mrs. Huston.
2. The case of Mrs. Ross was undoubtedly one of oomplete exposure and
clear fraud, and even if she ever got any genuine phenomena, nothing can
be done with her.
4. The Berry sisters have also been recently deteoted in fraud, and had
been'proviously exposed. ' I went one evening not very long ago to a Berry
materialisation s~anoe, and had no doubt that it wascomplete fraud.
5. Mrs. Fairohild has also been completely exposed. If I ean get the
records of these exposures I willforward them to you. R. HODGSON.
Chicago, April 26t11, 1888.
DEAR MR. HODGSON,-You asked me about the followinlt nsmed persons
who olaim to be mediums :--(1) Mrs. M. Eugenie Beste; (2) William and
P. L. O. A. Keeler (brothers); (3) Helen and Gertrude Berry; (4) Mrs.
Ross; (5) Mrs. Fairchild.
Digitized by Google
June,1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 281
Mrs. Beste is a shrewd adventuress, with probably some psychic power.
She was detected at Hartford and owned up,but is again running her fraudu-
lent show, at present in California. The Keeler Brothers probably have
some psychic power, but they are both arrant rascals. One of them fooled
Alfred Russel Wallace most egregiously, I have good reason to believe. The
Berry girls are probably mediumistic, but I have no confidence in their
materialisation shows. They certainly are incorrigible frauds, though I would
not like to say they have no power as materialising mediums, yet 1 have no
confidence in their claims in this respect. Mrs. Ross is probably an unmiti-
gated swindler. Ditto, Mrs Fairchild, though plenty of witnesses will swear
that all of them are genuine.
Mrs. Huston is a comparatively new candidate for public
credence, and I know little of her. Mrs. Carrie M. Twing is
not a materialising medium, nor a medium for physical manifestations of
any sort. She is a woman of good moral sense, and I think means to be
honest. She has been for years the unfortunate victim of the opium habit,
but I am told that within two years she has made a noble fight against it and
conquered. I do not consider her mediumship anything very wonderful;
but I think she is a virtuous and well·meaning woman. All the others of
whom you have spoken are, so far as I know, a bad lot. I could give you,
if necessary, considerable of the history in print of most of these people,
but it would involve a good deBI of work in hunting it up from my files, and
unless it is important I had rather not undertake it.-Yours truly,
JNO. C. BUNDY.
1827, Jefferson-place, Washington.
February 22nd, 1888.
My DEAR MR. WALLAcE,-On the 18th inst. I received your letter of
February 7th. I had just mailed to you a slip announcing the final result of
the Ross persecution. A short time ago I met Dr. Flower, of Boston,
who was on his way to Florida with his family. He told me that Ross's
lawyer refused to jeopard his own social standing by offering evidence of the
genuineness of the manifestations, and, therefore, had the indictment quashed
on a purely technical ground. Dr. Flower told me also that, finding the
Rosses to be in a destitute condition, stripped of all the money they had by
the expenses of the legal proceedings, he promised that if he could be
absolutely convinced of the genuineness of the manifestations through Mrs.
Ross, by a seance at his own house, he would allow them 1,500dol. a year, in
order to relieve them from dependence upon public circles for their sup-
port. They accordingly came to his house at a time appointed. Dr.
Flower hung a curtain over a recess, and in the course of the seance 52
different materialised forms made their appearance, of both sexes and of all
ages. One of them, a girl of about 10, talked for some time with the
doctor's own daughter, of the same age, behaving and talking precisely as a
bright, mortal child would have done. Afterwards Mrs. Ross came to see
him in his office. He at once proposed a seance there and then, calling in
his wife and his brother and brother's wife. In a short time about 36 different
forms showed themselves, and the doctor informs me that he is now redeem-
ing his pledge.
Digitized by Go .
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. rJune.l888.
Before answering your queries, let me first assure you that no reliance
can be placed on any statement in the ReZigio unfavourable to mediums for
material.isa.tion. That paper has always been the organ of those Spiritualists-
who deny the possibility of materia1isa~ion, and has been carrying on an
unprincipled and indiscriminate warfare against all materialising mediums.
I say "unprincipled" because, while never failing to copy at length all
accounts of "exposures" appearing in the hostile secular papers (some of
which I p81'sonalZy knew to be mere fiction), the editor has invariably refused
to publish any contradiction or explanation whatever on behalf of the-
accused medium. In 1874, at the request ofthe Bann81' of Light, I repaired
to Philadelphia to ascertain and report the real facts as to the alleged Katie-
King confeBBion. After a two weeks' investigation, in conjunction with
OolonelOlcott, I returned to Boston and wrote out my report. It was pub-
lished in two parts in two successive numbers of the Banner. The .ReZigitJ.
copied the first part entire, praising the intelligence and conscientiousneBS
displayed in the investigation, and promising to give the other part to ita
readers in its next issue. But the results arrived at, and given in the second
part, vindicated the Holmeses, and showed that the romantic" confeBBion "
was a pure fiction. which an illiterate woman of bad character, named Eliza.
White, had been bribed to sign and swear to as •• Katie King." So, instead
of publishing the second p"rt, the ReZigio dismissed the subject in a few
lines, stating that it was not worth publishing, and calling the writer, sub·
stantially, a silly idiot who had evidently been imposed upon.
Again. Mrs. Lita Barney Sayles, a lady of wealth and culture, told me-
that some years ago she was an acceptable contributor to the ReZigio.
Having been completely convinced at a very remarkable siSance of Mrs.
Beste (held under the strictest test conditions) of the genuineness of her
materialisations, she wrote an account of the siSance for the .ReZigio.
But Oolonel Bundy declined to publish it, and wrote to her, simply
saying "he was sorry that she also had become one of the deluded."
As to Mrs. Ross, his persecution of her has been incessant. His paper
last summer repeatedly called on the authorities at Onset to drive her from
the encampment, on the ground of her being a notorious impostor and
swindler.
As to Mrs. Sawyer, Mrs. Beste, Mrs. Fairchild, Mrs. ROBB, and Mr. Keeler,
I know not whether they have been at all times saints or sinners; but this
1 do know, that as to Mrs. Sawyer and Mrs. Fairchild, the manifest.ationa
were genuine, because there was no physical pOBBibility of fraud; and that as
to Mr. Keeler (whose siSances I have attended for seven years) and Mrs.
Beste (whose siSances I have attended for six years), and Mrs. RoBS
(whose stSances I have attended for three years), I know that their mani·
festations are genuine; because, in the first place, their stSances have been
under such conditions as to render fraud physically impossible; and,
secondly, because I have had throngh them such proofs of spirit identity
as to make the question whether the conditions were such as to exclude
fraud a matter of no importance.
Latterly, in deference to a better·instructed public opinion. the .ReZigio
bas begun to admit accounts of materialisation stSances without comment.
As to Mrs. Beste's "seizure and confession," the wife of a newspaper
Digitized by Google
June, 1888.] Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Resea1·ch. 283
editor in Ha.rtford, Connecticut, had repeatedly written to her, inviting her
to visit Hartford and be their guest, for the purpose of giving them and their
friends seances on three successive evenings. Mrs. Beste knew nothing of
the lady; but as her letters were kind and friendly in tone, and expressed
great interest in the phenomena, she finally accepted the invitation. She
was a stranger in Hartford~ and knew no one of the circle (some 15 in
number) they had assembled fDr her. At the first two seances the usual .
manifestations occurred (self-luminous forms and independent voices,
masculine and feminine), and were pronounced satisfactory by them all. On
the third evening her hostess had, concealed in the kitchen, which opened
directly on the seance-room, two stalwart men, one a blacksmith, and the
other (I think) a policeman.
Mrs. Beste is short (not over 5ft. 3in.) and stout, and has a remarkably
short neck (and thus entirely different from many slender and graceful spirit
forms I have often seen at her seances). One of her cabinet spirits is known
as " Apollonius." He is verY tall: 6ft. at the very least.
The first te come out of the cabiuet was Apollonius, who, after speaking
as usual in his powerful masculine voice, retired, undisturbed, the roughs in
the kitchen not apparently caring to tackle him. The next form that
appeared was that of a young girl in the usual dalicate white drapery.
Instantly the two athletes sprang into the room, and seized the form in the
roughest manner. The drapery at once disappeared, and the form held by
them was evidently that of Mrs. Beste.
Theile particulars, according to the best of my recollection, may be
gathered from the two accounts of the "exposure" published at the time.
both of which I read. What follows I know only from Mrs. Beste's personal
statement to some twelve of us, habitues of her seances in Washington. The
substance of this statement was afterwards published by her in the Bantl£T
of Light, verified, I believe, by her oath.
All she remembered of the seance was this: That she was entranced as
usual ; that on being suddenly roused by some violent shock she heard some-
one exclaim" Bring some brandy. or whisky. quick!" that some brandy was
presently forced down her throat; that they then told her she must sign her
name to a writing they showed her. or else immediately be taken to gaol. It
w8lliate at night, and she knew no one in Ha.rtford ; and being only half con-
scious, and terrified by the thrtl8t just made her. she signed the paper. and
she may have sworn to it, though of this she had no remembrance. She
dimly remembered asking at the railway station for a ticketfor Philadelphia,
but did not come to the full possession of her senses until the train conductor
demanded her ticket for Philadelphia, where she arrived about midnight.
The confession thus extorted stated, as published. that all her spirit mani-
festations had been fraudulent, and that the manifestatiotls of aU the mediums
in Boston werefraudtdent also. It had evidently been drawn up beforehand,
and the presence of the notary, who certified to her oath before him, like that
of the two roughs concealed in the kitchen, was no doubt part of the pro-
gramme.
One of the two accounts published of the affair was signed by the hostess
(she and her husband are both Catholics), the other by one of her friends in
the circle. My memory of them may not be absolutely aocurate, but Ire-
Digitized by Google
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1888.
collect that, on one or two points, they were not consistent with each other.
As to other details, 1 remember only that the cabinet was searched, and a
bottle of phosphorised oil was stated to have been found in it, and also some
of Mrs. Beste's clothing, of which she was found to be divested when seized.
My opinion on the whole matter is that it was a case of what is called
transfiguration, where the medium is temporarily transfigured, while in
unconscious trance, not only as to bodily form, face, and feature, but in
dres,. The effect of a sudden seizure on the medium's nervous system,
rousing her more or less completely from her trance (a state on which the
very existence of a materialisation seems to depend), would naturally
suspend at once the invisible force causing and sustaining these changes ;
thus leaving the medium and her dress in their normal condition, like
Cinderella when the clock struck twelve. The same invisible power could
have divested her of the garment unknown to herself, or have transformed it
into the spirit drapery. 1 have repeatedly witnessed facts of this very
nature, but to narrate them would make this letter too intolerably long.
All to the alleged bottle of phosphorised oil and the phosphorescent
dresses :-
Mrs. Beste's seances are held in the dark, and the forms that appear are,
as to their drapery, self-luminous. The luminosity is not phosphorescent. There
is never any odour of phosphorus, nor are there ever any of those wavy and
smoky appearances attendant on phosphorescent lights shining in darkness.
Accordingly the sceptics now insist that the luminosity is produced by
luminous paint. Here is an experiment showing that neither phosphorous
nor luminous paint has anything to do with it. At one of Mrs. Beste's
seances a spirit form came to Professor Coues (I sitting next to him), who
gave him her name and was recognised by him. 1 held my white muslin
handkerchief close to her white and luminous dress ; in fact, touching it..
The handkerchief was visible, but absolutely black. She said, " Give it to
me, and 1 will make it white again." 1 gave it to her, and after rolling
it about for a moment or two in her hands, which were not luminous, she
returned it to me as white as her dress. "And now," she said, " 1 will make
it black again." 1 handed it to her, and after rolling it about for a few
seconds in her hands, she returned it to me as black as before. Dr. Coues
repeated the experiment, and with the same results.
It is obvious that these changel! from black to white, and then from white
to black again, CQuid not have been operated by the use of phosphorus or
luminous paint.
If the bottle of phosphorised oil toa8 found in the cabinet 1 cannot believe
that the hostess was guilty of having it placed there; but 1 do believe that
it was brought there from without by one of those hostile, but invisible
agencies whose presence, as all will testify that have had much experience of
seances, is generally perceived whenever the circle is antagonistic to the
medium. Mrs. Beste was staying with the hostess as her guest, and it is
highly improbable that a bottle of phosphorised oil could have been kept
successfully concealed from her searching inspection. And as tQ the conceal-
ment of the luminous costumes of tall Apollonius and of the other cabinet
spirits that had appeared on the two previous evenings, when Mrs. Beste had
brought no other luggage than a hand bag, that is obviously impossible.
Digitized by Google
June, 1888.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 285
What became of these costumes, especially of the luminous dress worn by
Mrs. Beste when she was seized 1 For unless my memory entirely deceives
me, no mention was made in either of the two accounts of their having been
found.
Reimer's article in Light of February 18th, p. 77, bears directly upon
this subject. . Please read it.
And now, as to your other querieD.
1. I cannot state that in any instance where Nellie Morris manifested
her presence, either in materialised form or in writing, it was my firllt
seance with the m~dium. As to Mrs. Twing, at Onset, I had attended one
of her seances as a trance·medium, but I was a stranger to all then present,
as well as to herself. As to the Fairchild seance in Boston, I had atte~ded
one of her public seances one year before, when I was only one in a crowd of
people, all strangers to lJle. At the seance in question, as well as at the
previous one, I gave no name, and all present were strangers to me. But
this I can state positively, that in no case, whenNellie Morrisfir,t announced
herself, could the medium, or any person present, have known or heard of
her.
2. The editor I mentioned. to you as personally hostile to Keeler was
Colby, of the Ba'lmBr of Light. I am preparing a reply to the dishonest and
untruthful account given by the Seybert Commission of their seance with
Keeler, and shall send you a copy of it if I can get it published. Of course,
both the Banner and the Religio would refuse it.
3. I have never had any test connected with Nellie Morris through a
pri'/Jate medium. In fact, I do not remember having had an opportunity to
sit with one for many years.
4. I have never published an account of any seance I have attended,
excepting the one at Mrs. Ross's at Onset; which appeared in Facti for
October, 1886; a copy of which I gave you.
5. I have never heard of either my daughter or Nellie Morris having
manifested their presence at any seance where I was not present.
6. As to Mr. Myers' suggestion in respect to my daughter's statement
about" keeping her mother's birthday."
I married my first wife (my daughter's mother) at San Francisco in
December, 1852. Early in 1853 we went for a few months to Rhode Island,
my native State; and froll1 thence to Brussels and to Paris, returning to
San Francisco in 1855, on my learning that my California agent had
embezzled and squandered all but a small fragment of my property, thus
compelling me to resume my legal practice. Our home was for some time a
very humble one, some three miles from the city. My daughter was born
there in 1857. In 1859 my wife died ill New Jersey of Panama fever, con-
tracted a* the Isthmus while on her way to visit her mother, whom she had
not seen for several years. During all the six years of our married life (in
which we never once visited Washington) there nevllr was any" keeping of
her birthday" at all, beyond my giving her such little birthday present as I
could afford. After the war I brought my da.ughter, then seven years old, to
Providence, Rhode Island, and afterwards, in 1865, married my present
wife, who never saw my daughter's mother, who has been very seldom
alluded to in my present family. This much is certain, that neither my wife
Digitized by Google
~86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1888.
nor her children, when the writing through Mrs. Sawyer was given, knew
what was my first wife's birthday, nor any other living person beside myself,
except her old mother, then living in her home in New Jersey; an.! who
died there a year ago.
On reading the communication from my daughter through Mrs. Sawyer,
I saw at once that it was not in her handwriting, and that it was evidently
written by some other spirit to whom she had given the substance of what
she wished to say.
I enclose herewith the original message from my first wife received at
Keeler's seance of February 25th, 1887, be~ging that you will return it to
me with the other original writings when no longer wanted.-Yours, with
great regard,
FRANCIS J. ,LIPPITT.
1827, Jefferson-place, Washington, D.C.
Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace. December 15th, 1887.
My DEAR MR. WALLACE, -In April, 1884, Mrs. Sawyer, a materialising
medium, came to Washington to hold seances. I had never heard of her
before, and I was an entire stranger to her. I attended a seance of hers,
held April 11th, 1884. The cabinet was in one corner of the room; and
during the entire seance there was sufficient light to distinguish every person
present, and to make it impossible for any confederate to enter the cabinet
without being seen by all. One of the forms that appeared at the opening
of the curtain was that of a young girl, in white drapery, and whose face was
veiled. In height and general appearance she resembled my departed
daughter, Carrie, who had died in New J'ersey in July, 1882. I approached
her and asked her name. She made no answer, and after a few moments
she retired behind the curtain. Presently she reappeared, stepped forward
to a little table, took from it a sheet of paper and a ,pencil, and retired with
them behind the curtain. In a few moments she reappeared again, handed
a piece of paper to a Mr. Burke, who was conducting the seance, and by
signs directed him to hand it to me. He did so. It is the paper marked (A)
which accompanies this letter.
I have now to state that my first wife (whose name was Elizabeth) was
born in the County of Durham, in the North of England, on the 25th of
February, 1836, and died in New Jersey in 1859 ; that no one of my present
family had any knowledge of her birthday; that, besides myself, there was
only one living person that knew it ; and this was her mother (now deceased),
then living at a small country place behind the mountains in the State of
New Jersey, where she had been residing over 30 years; and that afterwards
I ascertained from herself that she had never seen or heard of Mrs. Sawyer.
The members of the circle were all strangers to me except Judge Cuppz,
now deceased, and my stepson, Mr. Pickering Dodge, who will certify to the
correctness of this statement. I know not where the other witnesses can be
found. -Very sincerely yours,
FRANCIS J. LIPPITr.
Washington, D.C., December 15th, 1aR7.
I am not, and never have been, a believer in what are called "spirit
manifestations" ; but I have no objection to stating that I was presimt at
June,1888.1 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 287
the seance of Mrs. Sawyer, held April 11th, 1884; that I have read the
account of it contained in the foregoin~ letter to Mr. Wallace, and that the
.same is strictly correct in every particular; also, that I recognise the paper
marked (A) attached to said letter as the identical paper mentioned in said
letter, and which-was seen and read by me at the close of the seance.
PICKERING DODGE.
A.
DEAR PA,-I am here to see you, and am glad to see you looking so
well. I am ever so gleefully disposed upon looking into that noble, dear
~ountenance of yours. I am happy with mother Elizabeth, and we here
celebrate her birthday (February 25th) much after the manner we did on
~arth. C~RRIE.
Washington, D.C., February 23rd, 1888.
Dr. Alfred R. Wallace, Godalming, England.
DEAR SIR,-GeneralLippitt has requested of me for such use as you may
~hoose to make of it, an account of a seance of Mrs. M. E. Beste, at which
I was present. With this letter I deliver him the statement desired.
Some members of the Society for Psychical Research in England, I
understand, object as evidence to any recital of the occurrences at seances
where she has acted as medium, on the ground of her exposure at Hartford,
Connecticut, in 1885. My rule is to let every seance stand upon its own
merits. If thrvugh one medium I get manifestations unmistakablygenuine,
and at a second seance with the same medium get absolute proofs of fraud,
and at a third again get genuine manifestations, I do not propose to reject
the genuine phenomena on account of their unfortunate companionship with
deceptions. If one does so, he can never settle the question as to the real
character of the unseen influences acting upon a medium. If certain con-
trolling spirits are not too good to lie, they may instigate to fraudulent
manifestations and co-operate ill the fraud. One powerful medium on our
Pacific coast is a wonderful subject for both sorts of influences. The sitters
with her get deceptions or otherwise, according to the moods they bring to
the seances.
I have nothing to say about the Hartford matter in Mrs. Beste's case.
The appearance of the form of Washington is for me a genuine manifestation
of supersensual origin.-Very truly yours, D. LYMAN.
FORM-ApPEARANCE OF GEORGE WASHINGTON.
On Saturday, the 12th of August, 1882, 1 was present with C. C. Sailer
and wife at a seance given by Mrs. M. Eugenie Beste, at their residence.
No. 3129, N.-street in Georgetown (now West Washington), D.C. This was
one of very many private seances, which were held by Mr. Sailer, his wife, and
myself as the only spectators, with the same medium. The series of sittings
beginning that year, but held at irregular intervals, extended into the
spring of 1885.
The d~y I)n which this particular seance was held was very hot and sultry,
and towards evening a fog came on which rendered the heat doubly oppres-
sive. Ml"B. Beste came from Washington to Mr. Sailer's between six and
eight o'clock p.m. Ascending the high steps that approach the house from
the street, she sat down upon the doorstep, remaining there for some time
Digitized by Google
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1888.
for such refreshment as an open doorway could give. She was clad in a thin
blue lawn dress. As the hour of eight drew near and it became pOBBible to
close doors and windows without discomfort, we all went into the parlour, a.
room of two apartments connected by folding doors. In the north apart-
ment, standing against the north wall, Mr. Sailer had erected a movable
cabinet, the frame of which was covered wit.h a dark maroon cloth 011 the
four sides. On the front, or south side, the cloth was so disposed that it
might be pulled aside from the west, or opened from the middle by pulling
the curtains either way, so as to disclose the entire interior. A single cha.ir
was the only article of furniture within. The cabinet was almost a fixture in
the room for many months. This apartment conta.ined a piano (on the east
side), with cha.irs. On the west side was a fireplace and mantel·shelf.
Upon entering this apartment, Mrs. Beste for a few moments sat upon
the piano stool, and upon her apparent entrancement went within the
cabinet and took her seat there. We at once occupied three seats about six
feet in front. A single gas-jet was lighted, and the light was reduced, but
n,ot so low that the colours and shapes of all the articles ill the room were not
easily discernible. Our custom generally was, if forms did not at once
appear, to sing some hymn or well-known popular song. Soon after taking
our seats I remarked to Mr. Sailer that the hot, foggy evening was aga.inst
us, and that it was probable that there would be no great manifestations.
Bat a few moments after I made this remark the curtain was lifted, and the
tall form of a soldier emerged from the cabinet. His first words were, "The
father of his country." He was dreBBed in a blue coat with belt and
. epaulettes attached, in yellow breeches, and long boots. The head was bare
and the hair grey. The form reached to the top of the cabinet (six feet in
height). The figure in appeaJ;ance accurately reproduced in form and colour
the deta.ils of the figure represented by Trumbull's picture of Washington
resigning his commission, to be seen in the Rotunda of the Capitol. The
figure came out seven times from the cabinet, bringing once a female upon
his right arm, swathed in clouds of muslin from head to foot. More than
once he lifted the curtain on the right of the cabinet and disclosed the
medium sitting in her blue lawn dress in the chair. At each coming he
would speak a few words, and upon his voice failing he would step within
the cabinet, recover strength, come out and complete the sentence. In this
way he succeeded in uttering a message destined for a gentleman in
Philadelphia, in which he declared that he had appeared once before through
another medium known in that city.
It is not my purpose to affirm or deny that the intelligence animating
thiB figure was the soul known on earth as Washington; but simply to assert
that if its pretensions were not true, it was due to no conscious agency on
the part of the medium. Madame TUB8&ud herself could not have produced
a better image of Washington with all the appliances of her art at command.
And certainly with all the materials for dreBBing a Washington at hand
within the cabinet, the medium, a.ided by all the sitters, could not with the
labour of many hours have produced a form of Washington which any
observer would not at once have pronounced a lay figure. But there was
neithermaterlal within reach of the medium for such a production, nor time
sufficient for it. We, the sitters, could but reco2nise it as the creation, not of
supernatural, but of super-human capacities. Moreover, we did not pursue
our investigations under conditions where trickery could produce exhibitions
like this. Of other deta.ils of this seance, it is needleBB to speak.
D. LYMA...'f.
Digitized by Google
