{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1linda_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Linda D NDE 5238","mylang":"de"}
          	        Linda D NDE 5238  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Linda D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2738 Linda D NDE 5238  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was walking with a friend after school. I never saw the drunk driver go off the road, because he hit me from behind. Suddenly I was floating in this black void, totally conscious of myself and my identity. I was curious, but not afraid. There was nothing to see, just blackness. I had no idea what was going on, but I had the feeling of moving forward and going somewhere. I was extremely excited and happy. As I moved along, the happiness became intense joy.

Then it changed. I had reached some sort of barrier and something indicated to me that I had to 'go back.' I have not, to this day, ever experienced such bitter disappointment as I felt when I was 'told' to return. I did not want to return, but I had the distinct 'feeling' of turning around. Returning felt like falling from a great height. It was a very uncomfortable feeling. It was as if I were plummeting into the depths of HELL. It became terrifying! As I got closer to my destination, I could hear someone screaming. As I fell, the screaming was getting louder and louder until I 'fell' into my body and realized that I was the one who was screaming. What I was screaming was, 'Let me die!' over and over, while I was struggling with the medical personnel who were working on me, trying to save me. 

After this, I was heavily medicated and I remember slipping in and out of consciousness during the next two weeks. When I finally woke up, I had no idea what had happened to me, no recollection of the accident. When I talked about my experience, no one seemed to be interested. I, myself, did not understand what it was about until many years later, when I read about near death experiences. I knew, then, that is what had happened to me.

The physical injuries I received took nearly ten years to recover from.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November 11, 1965'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' severe trauma.  Concussion, severe bleeding, broken bones, internal injuries.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Definitely altered, but indescribable. Separate and real.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Actually, I couldn't see anything. All was a black void.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound, either. When I was 'told' I had to return, it was more like a telepathic communication.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was a black void, with the feeling of movement.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt excitement, anticipation, and joy - until I realized I was to return to this life. Then I felt sorrow, disappointment, dread, and terror.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I did learn that consciousness exists outside and apart from the body. I do not feel that I will be afraid when it is time for me to die. I feel that death will be another adventure.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Before I reached my 'destination', it was indicated to me that I had to return. I was not to go on.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   NONE

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   NONE

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That there is more to us than what we experience here in this worldly plane of existence.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No I love nature and simple things. I do not understand why people struggle so hard to accumulate stuff and why they fight and hurt each other so much. I had been a very outgoing child, but as an adult, I keep to myself, except to help out where I can.  I have been able to care for and help three people that I love go through the end of life process without myself becoming paralyzed emotionally about it. It was when they were dying from cancer. I was able to do this because I knew death is not final - I knew that they would continue to exist. I related my experience to them and hoped it would comfort them. Not sure if it did. I doubt I could have assumed the caregiver role had I not had this knowledge. I saw so many others too afraid to even visit them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, the feelings of extreme disappointment when I was 'told' to return and when I heard, very faintly at first, the screaming that got louder and louder until I entered my body to realize that I was the one doing the screaming and WHAT I was saying.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I had recovered enough to be able to speak coherently, I attempted to tell my family and my doctor what I had experienced. The doctors told me I had experienced hallucinations from anoxia. My family did not appear to be interested. After all, I was just a child.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I had never heard of such a thing.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Shortly after my experience I saw it as 'definitely real.' I did not know what to think, I had no frame of reference.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Currently I view the experience as 'definitely real.' I had been near death - was very probably in the process of dying, and my consciousness had separated from my body. But then I was saved before I 'crossed over'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I feel that I have privileged inside information.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You had it covered as far as my experience went.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1linda_d_nde.html