{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1linda_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Linda G NDE3649","mylang":"de"}
          	        Linda G NDE3649  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Linda G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1653 Linda G NDE 3649  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was asleep on my bed after taken eight tablets as prescribed by the doctor not realizing that it was eight per day not eight at once. I experienced a sort of light sleep culminating with a sensation of breaking into a million particles.

I could sense that my body was still on the bed and I was sort of above it but only just, it was a sensation of separation from the physical body but still being fully aware of my essence. During this stage, my aura as I will call it was intermingling with a friend who was asleep next to me on my bed.

I was communicating with the aura of my friend who was beside me. It was like our aura's were a culmination of all our many lives and experiences since being on Earth and the beginning of time from the caveman days to now. I could tell which gene pool he stemmed from and also my own. As my friend was only sleeping, I took this as a sort of force field that we all have, something that we all are connecting with amongst each other even if we don't realize it.

I was then flown around the world at a great speed.  It was pulling me around by my solar plexus region. I had no body at this stage but I'm still a soul and I also know this. When my journey around the Earth had reached above Indonesia - as I was flying around the equator (it was sort of like looking at a Google earth map) - I was sucked into a tunnel although it didn't have sides so to speak just a feeling that I was being drawn up to the next level. I was greeted by a light being although I don't remember flying into a light as such.

I knew this soul and was guided around the place. I was shown rooms and doorways mostly which contained other souls learning things and preparing for their return to Earth or wherever there next journey was to be.

I also saw souls who I would called Angels or higher beings they were helping Earthlings with many problems even medical discoveries.

I was taken to many different levels by this friend and learned that anything is possible in this place. I can't remember most of the levels as each one seemed more complex than the last but I do remember the lower levels so to speak. I'm sure I was taken to higher places but I am not to remember these places as my life here would be affected. I think there may be about seven or possibly more but I have a basic memory of about three or four.

I was taken before God who was just as I imagined; a bright light being so brilliant it was like I've never seen. Yet we had meet before, with a human form but nobody so to speak approximately eight feet tall and made from pure love and light. We communicated telepathically and every question I had was answered although I don't remember exactly what I asked. I was shown a movie of my life from start until then, it was so fast and yet so precise. I was asked if I would change anything which I answered 'Yes of course.' He also asked me questions too! Like, was I happy with my life? To which I replied that I was.

I was left with a feeling inside as to how much good I'd given and how much bad I'd given. I was told this would be the feeling I'd be left with whilst there. My feeling was not bad. It was not extremely great either. It was a slightly nervous feeling but one that I could be satisfied with.

I'm imagining that if you were mean and awful throughout your life that that is the feeling you would be left with whilst transitioning to the next place. Even though this place was so wonderful, and sort of felt like home, and most people could never imagine nor want to leave, I asked if I could go back to Earth.

God asked me why and I told him that my kids were asleep in the next room and I would never forgive myself if they had to wake in the morning and find their mum dead. The previous year their father had committed suicide and if they had to grow up with a mum who had a drug overdose and a dad who committed suicide then they would think that no-one loved them enough to be around which was so far from the truth. My every particle was aching with this thought. I was allowed to come back. There was no begging or pleading it was like it was what I wanted so much and unselfish that I had it given to me. I'm so thankful for that.

I was told that if I was to come back I would have to forget what I had learned on the other side as it would interfere with my life. I was sent back so quickly through the soles of my feet and awoke a few hours later.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  may 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Accidental drug overdose.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think I was alert at all times except for when it was decided to come back then I was basically told that I wasn't to remember what had happened in the clarity in which I had just had it. I remember clearly many things but I know I only remember just a snippet. I was told I can't be allowed to remember as it would take the joy out of my life a purpose here if I know what was to happen. I don't remember returning to Earth or the process it was as if I was just put back but I do know I got back in my body through the soles of my feet.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no space or time as such. I felt like I could have been a whole year on some particular levels in the different dimensions but clearly on Earth time I was not breathing for only a few minutes. So all the time there which I could talk about like it happened over a period of days was only a few minutes in fact.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I first started to lose consciousness I was lying next to a friend. As I started to drift above my body it happened in a strange way, it was like all my body became thousands of little particles. My friend who was beside me was also made from these particles and although he was asleep and not experiencing a NDE, our particles started to intermingle. I can only explain this, as it was our aura's mingling, I learnt so much from this connection. I learnt everything about him and him about me (I think). It would take me a while to describe it but the overall feeling I was left with was that what you do to others you are doing to yourself as we all are connected by a magical cord, which is connected to the source of everything, which I call God.  Then I went on to the next level. This level sent me spinning around the world three times at a speed of such fastness I went all around three times in approximately twenty seconds (although there is no time). I saw the Earth in all its glory, a truly magnificent planet to view from the fields of space. Then somewhere over Indonesia I was sucked into a tunnel and taken from the earthly realm and sent to 'heaven' if I may call it that.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear normally although when communicating it was telepathic but with sound and words!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was sucked into a tunnel after floating or flying at a great speed around the world three times. This tunnel appeared over Indonesia.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I had a guide (not a deceased relative) I also met God. I also met and saw many other spirit beings getting on with their stuff such as studying or watching a window that looked sort of like a TV of their loved ones or even a baseball game.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The most brilliant light imaginable. This was God. But it wasn't at the end of the tunnel.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I remember at least 4 different dimensions which I could move through at will.  I do think however that there  were at least 7 and possibly more. I was told that I coiuld be allowed to remember all of this as it would affect my life back on Earth. Before I was put back in my body my mind was sort of erased but I do have a vague recollection of most of he places and have the feeling that I learnt an amazing amount more but can't remember alot of specific details.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, in the most extreme sense up until I had the life review then I felt a little nervous.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw everything from birth till then in fast motion also whilst this was happening I could feel the feelings of these events. I could also feel any pain I gave out to others. Also goodness I'd given out. God asked if I was happy with how things went and I said 'yes'. He asked me how I felt and I said a little nervous he explained that this was because all my life I felt this way and it is sort of what I didn't handle properly. I was also told that if the bad outweighed the good you have done your feeling you're left with is bad, so if you were a truly awful person you'd be feeling quite awful for your time there. Alternately, if you have given out love and goodness and been kind and caring you'd be up there feeling sheer bliss and good for you. I was feeling no extreme sense of badness for lack of a better word. I was feeling happy, light, and carefree but a little nervous inside like you have been over a hill too fast or ridden a roller coaster, but overall the balance seemed fair and just enough for what I had just been shown. Mostly good stuff had outweighed the bad.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   was a spiritual being  believed in god not organized religion

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I not only believe in God but really believe in karma as well. I also believe that love can heal almost anything.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   spiritual believe in god

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I not only believe in God but really believe in karma as well. I also believe that love can heal almost anything.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I came to understand that we all choose to come to Earth to fulfill a plan of some sort or even learn about a particular interest. We choose our bodies, parents, and life plan. May I also add that some people come here for the most simple of reasons; to learn how to play tennis for example; or simply for the cake and food - as silly as this sounds our life plans aren't so high and lofty as one might think. I DIDN'T MEET ANY 'SAVE THE WORLDERS' OR ANYONE WISHING TO BE A PRESIDENT. MOST HAD SIMPLE WISHES. I was also told we could exist on different planes for other lives but our life here on Earth is a life not purely to experience physical pleasure or pain but to have a physical experience because in all other planes we don't need a body as a vessel. I also learnt that this life here is just a drop of water in the bucket of lives in which we all experience, many here on Earth and many in other realms of existence. All to progress and grow in some way. The main purpose here is to LOVE. I was also told that this would be my last life here on Earth as there will be nothing left for me to learn by coming here again. I had the feeling though that I'd be off to some other magical place!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Try not to build up negative feelings or bad karma and I'm more understanding of others and where they're at in life so to speak.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Some things were so great there are no words sufficient to describe. Some things were all feelings with no words. It was like home and my Earth life was just a day in the park.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Usually can sense when someone is sick or dying. I have experiences where the power seems to play up when I'm around. I can heal myself with positive thoughts. Have had visions and flashes of the future and premonition dreams. I also can tell when someone is lying. I often feel like I'm helping others when I'm asleep. I also believe in the power of prayers.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was particularly impressed by the life playback and since then I can't lie and will always help out anyone in pain. I was always a kind and caring person before but more so now.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some people cry, some think I'm silly. But they will all find out one day.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of it but although I heard about the light and tunnel and stuff it was completely different than what I would have imagined.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As a real NDE I felt so blessed I wanted to tell everyone but I didn't want them to think I had lost the plot.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have never had a dream that was so vivid so I can't believe it was a dream it was like a dream only a thousand times more real than life itself.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       People often would like to know if you have been to a place of such wonder why would you want to come back here. I had to come back and it was jointly decided between God and I that it was in the best interest of my two sleeping children who would find my dead body when they woke up and as their father had only died a year ago they would be orphans. I had no-one who would care for them in my life and they would have not survived. So I'm actually here to look after the kids. I was told that when they no longer needed me and when the kids of mine were married 'they' would come back for me when I say 'they' I am assuming it is the angels, but I'm not sure.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Could you ask how they came to be back inside their body. I was put back in my body through the soles of my feet.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1linda_g_nde.html