{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1linda_a_mother_nde.html","mytitle":"Linda A Mother NDE 4448","mylang":"de"}
          	        Linda A Mother NDE 4448  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Linda A Mother NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  			2225 Linda A Mother NDE 4448  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This is how mom related her experience to me:

She felt like she was in a tunnel. At the end of a tunnel was a bright light. She kept moving toward that bright light. Once she got to the bright light, she felt a presence behind her and knew it was Jesus. In the light, she saw her father (my grandpa) and his brother (great uncle) sitting at a table. (In the early 1970s, they both had preceded her in death.) She looked at grandpa and said, 'Dad, I want to come with you.' Grandpa turned around and spoke to someone - whom mom knew was God although she could not see him - and when he turned back to her, he said, 'It's not time.'

That's when she awoke from the 'coma'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Late 1970's

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related. Allergic reaction  Reaction to anesthesia from a surgery  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   We were visiting mom following a surgery she had. She swelled up and looked like she was nine months pregnant. The doctors kicked us out of her room as they began trying to revive her. (She had had surgery on Monday and this happened the following Sunday. She couldn't remember any of us visiting her during that week.)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The way she related it to me, she would have been most conscious and alert while waiting for grandpa's response to her wanting to come with him.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Not that she described to me.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Mom had experienced other visions including awakening abruptly from a dream and saying out loud that something had happened to me while I was on a train ride from Chicago (our dining car had derailed at the exact time she awoke) and had an out-of-body experience seeing doctors perform surgery on her.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    She did not say anything about hearing anything special.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Destinctive location is a table at which grandpa and uncle were sitting at.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       From what she told me, she felt true love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Hers remained the same up until her death. She always seemed to believe and know about Jesus.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Hers remained the same up until her death. She always seemed to believe and know about Jesus.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The experience she related to me gave me the feeling that she knew how things were going to work once it was 'her time'. I, myself, have had only one dream of her at which I was crying beside her bed, knowing she was deceased. She sat up on the bed and told me, 'I'm okay, Linda, I'm okay.'

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Mom was apologetic and asked for my forgiveness for not being a better mother.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Mom was able to relate her story very well. We, being so much alike, never got along very well. She told me her story and then apologized to me for not being a better mother.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Mom impressed upon me the fact that she knew Jesus was behind her and grandpa talked to God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Mom shared this with me within a year of this occurring. I have also related this story to others who seemed genuinely interested.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     If mom didn't think her experience was definitely real, she would not have told me about it nor apologized for not being a better mother to me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have no reason not to believe what mom told me about her experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   She had no others that I'm aware of.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Although I'm relating what my mother saw, I have no doubt about any of her experience that she told me. I, at twenty-seven, was calmed by her appearance in my own dream, that what she told me was real.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1linda_a_mother_nde.html