{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1linda_go_nde.html","mytitle":"Linda Go NDE 22066","mylang":"de"}
          	        Linda Go NDE 22066  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Linda Go NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Linda G NDE  			1972 Linda Go NDE 22066  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was suddenly conscious of looking down at myself. I seemed to be in the corner of the ceiling.  I remember thinking I don't look very well and then realization that I was dying.  I wasn't scared, just pissed off that I was not going to see my daughter grow up. 

There was this old lady in the bed next to me who screamed out to the nurses to come and check on me as I was moaning loudly.  The first nurse came in and tried to get a vein but couldn't so she called the Matron.  I remember thinking it strange that she couldn't get a vein because I have perfect veins for giving blood. 

The Matron tried to get a vein and when she couldn't they suddenly decided to check the bag attached to me.  It was full of blood and then suddenly the Matron is screaming out orders to get the surgeon.  He rushes in and then I'm being propelled down the corridor. They were going really fast and there I am floating along at the same pace above them.  Then it all went black. 

Later I was told that I was very lucky.  I asked to see the old lady that was in the room with me so that I could thank her, but was told that I was in the room by myself. 

I did not imagine this.  I truly experienced it.  I often question whether the old lady I saw was an angel.  At first, I was confused and depressed, no-one seemed to believe me, but I know it happened.  Later my feelings about the event changed but for a long while I was mixed up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May, 1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was in post operative after a gall bladder operation and was bleeding internally unbeknown to nursing staff.  Apparently my body was shutting down as I had lost over four pints of blood.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could not see my form but I could clearly see my whole body and I didn't look healthy.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just the old lady in the bed next to me, who apparently didn't exist.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I couldn't smell anything but I could see and hear.  I didn't touch or taste anything.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I wasn't scared - curious at first, then angry that I was dying. I knew in my heart that I was dying and yet I wasn't frightened just pissed off.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes I could see that whole room and all of my body which I could not do if I was in my body.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I started to believe in Angels and life after death.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part is that I am no longer scared of dying just scared of how I am going to die.  The worst part was a feeling of my life being out of my control.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They express disbelief.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1linda_go_nde.html