{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lily_probable_fde.html","mytitle":"Lily Probable FDE 9401","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lily Probable FDE 9401  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lily Probable FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable FDE  						5039 Lily Probable FDE 9401  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I had an unusual experience, but I could not put a finger on what it was. I hope the researchers at NDERF could help specify what it was. I have some contexts that would be important to the story. I was assigned under federal contact to aid with field campaign, and my job was to help launch weather balloons near supercell thunderstorms and into atmosphere in general for data on environment. Thus, we had pickup truck with supplies for weather balloons and helium tanks for filling balloons with helium. Though the helium tanks were securely clamped down to truck bed, the tanks contained the gas at extremely high pressure. If the tanks were struck hard, they would become powerful missiles that would be deadly to truck occupants and nearby people or animals caught in the path. 

  On to the story, we had to reposition to west Iowa for potential for supercells the next day, and we entered Omaha metro. The traffic was quite busy, but the driver was not known for good defensive driving as rest of my team found out over time. I was focused on drawing in backseat of truck cab when I had strange feeling of "I am going to die" beyond my control. Then, there was a brief blackness before seeing myself covered in sparkly gold lights moving all over my body yet I could not move any part of my body. I felt as if I was jutted toward the driver, yet my body was stuck in sitting position. It was surreal to see, but it was oddly relaxing. Then, there was another void before I opened my eyes like normal. Confused, I looked at passenger next to me and grabbed the regulator (for helium tank to control the flow) to see if I can move myself. Seeing that the passengers did not ask if I was okay or tell me that I was acting strange, I put two and two together that it was all over in less than a second even though it felt like roughly four to five seconds. Then, I was "told" that it had something to do with the helium. I thought I would check if the caps on tanks were secure because if caps were not on tanks, there would a huge risk of tanks becoming missiles. When we stopped at gas station few minutes later, I checked the caps, and there were secure on tanks to my relief. I mentally shelved the moment and focused on my tasks for a bit, but when we returned home, I was privately talking to one of fellow passengers, and she said we almost hit the car with truck bed which terrified her. I eventually realized that we almost crashed the helium tanks into nearby car, making it extremely dangerous for unfortunate souls driving near us. However, I was relieved that it did not happen.

  The aftermath was not much, but I did report the driver to scientists in charge of mission for safety's sake.   I do have odd experiences, such as seeing ghosts as a child, telepathic messages to my mind, future predictions via dreams.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 5/18/2022  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         Close call involving helium tanks in truck bed  Other Had it actually happen, it would be have been very deadly not just for me or the others in truck
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I was too shocked to even observe further, and I did not get a chance to overcome the shock before I went back to normal. However, I did get message about the tanks which was later confirmed by another passenger.  I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was difficult to describe, but my thought went much fasters to the point they were blurs since I had not had chances to get settled with them before returning to normal. I was a bit taken aback since I was likely "gifted" to "genius" IQ-wise.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was briefly jutted toward the driver.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed that time was exceptionally slow as if I could condense five seconds into let's say a microsecond.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was too brief for me to get good grasp of it, but the best I could explain was the truck cab looked odd and more vivid.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I am also deaf, and I still struggle to understand speech despite using cochlear implant. However, I was able to understand "telepathic messages" very clearly.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   My body was caked in sparkling gold lights  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Shock and confusion  I did not get a chance to experience joy since it was too short.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Moderate Christian with blend of Jewish and Muslim beliefs  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I was not given time to process it since it was two days ago.  

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Moderate Christian with blend of Jewish and Muslim beliefs  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was aware that some entity was guiding me and explaining what happened, but I was surprised by experience itself at first because I did not die at least in that sense.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I still need more time to process the event.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I was told by some mystical or unearthly voice that it was about the tanks in truck bed.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I could not identify who told me about helium in truck bed.  

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I could not identify the voice, but it was possible it came from God, angel, some entity, or Jesus.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     What I learned from it was that death is simply a soul being done with a mission in physical world as if a soul "forks it in" (our lingo for done with day's mission) and leaves physical world. Also, I recalled the first law of thermodynamics as I had some time to process it. The first law states that energy cannot be created or destroyed. It only changes. I pondered if souls are some form of energy and consciousness.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     From what I could observe, the body is merely a vessel for a soul to interact within physical world bounded by laws of physics, but the body is also a huge constraint. The soul does not obey the laws of physics in physical sense.  

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     I felt more comfortable about death and dying, but I had to go on since I still have work to do in physical world. Although, I had driver reported since his lack of control when driving could be dangerous.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was not given time to process it since it was two days ago.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Since I have Asperger's, I am often blunt and honest about many subjects, but I did not say much about it to other scientists and graduate students because they usually are not accepting of such subjects.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the ex    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My father told me that I used to play peek a boo with some sort of entity that he could not see when I was a young child, and I once saw some strange shadow on wall when I was in elementary school. When I was kindergarten, I had a dream predicting my parent's divorce, parents remarrying, Donald J. Trump presidency, and family hardship which were all verified. Another one was a nuclear-like explosion which was probably verified as Beirut explosion. One I had when I was in middle school showed bleak black clouds and my mother telling me there are tornadoes coming which was confirmed as April 27, 2011 Superoutbreak which I personally experienced. Other dreams that I had yet to be verified: a woman wading in an extremely polluted river searching for perhaps her baby, weather forecast calling for extreme heatwave with siren screaming "EMERGENCY ALERT", and some form of extreme volcanism, perhaps a supervolcano which clearly was not Yellowstone given different plant species and some form of town nearby. I have seen odd sparks of gold lights streaking across skies that I could not put a finger on.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Honestly, seeing myself covered in sparkling gold lights seemed to match what those lights in skies looked like.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I privately told one of passenger about it, but I did imply about it when I reported the driver to scientists in charge.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew about them since I was 12 when I first watched documentaries on them. No, it did not affect my experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was not on medications that would have affected my mental state.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was not on medications that would have affected my mental state.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       In my opinion, I found it really incredible with so much learned in barely a microsecond.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lily_probable_fde.html