{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1leta_nde.html","mytitle":"Leta NDE 3923","mylang":"de"}
          	        Leta NDE 3923  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Leta NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1865 Leta NDE 3923  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I woke up at 4:00 am. I went into the bathroom. I started to feel queasy. I felt faint. The next thing I remember was I was FLYING, super-fast, head first down a long, dark hallway. It was very dark. There was someone on my right holding my arm taking me. I could tell that this person KNEW where we were going and it was their mission to bring me. I was screaming no, no, no. I did not want to go. I could see objects going by me on each side. I don't know what they were because we were flying so fast. It felt like we were going down that dark hallway for a long time. I remember just thinking no, where am I? Where are we going? Then we stopped in front of a door on the left. I don't know what color the door was, all I knew was it was a door and I was not going through it! I kept saying NO! The next thing I remember was my husband telling me I had a seizure. It took me about half an hour to finally figure out what happened, where I was, and who my husband was. He said I had stopped breathing and I was turning grey. He tipped my head back and got me breathing, and then I started to have the seizure.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 27, 2001'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    woke up at 4:00 am. Was fine during that whole day  Other 'Had a seizure, stopped breathing.'  I passed out, stopped breathing, was given CPR and began to have a seizure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole experience felt equally heightened.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I did not know where I was and everything was happening very fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was moving so fast it was hard to focus.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When I was talking it sounded like it wasn't coming from me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I could feel someone on my right taking me down the hallway, but I didn't try to look at them. I could just feel them there.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was very scared and did not know where I was going and who the 'person' was that was taking me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I came to a door on the left. I did not want to go through that door. I was terrified of the unknown. I did not want that door to open.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Now I KNOW there is more out there when we die.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Now I KNOW there is more out there when we die.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No. I was just scared. I did not want to go wherever this being was taking me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately after. I told the person who did CPR. I do not remember telling him, but later, when I told him about it he said, you already told me that whole story when you came to. He said, 'Wow, really!' Other people don't say much about it - just, 'Wow.'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real. It did happen; it WAS NOT a 'dream'. It happened years ago and I still remember it vividly.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1leta_nde.html