{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lewis_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Lewis D NDE 266","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lewis D NDE 266  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lewis D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1391 Lewis D NDE 266  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was transported on a life-flight chopper, and they put the wires onto my heart to watch my vital signs. Then they said, 'We are losing him,' and then stuck me with a long needle in my chest. At that time, everything went black, so black it was as though I could feel it. Then I saw a ball of light that seemed to be moving closer to me, it seemed to rouse interest in me at the time. I was moving closer to the ball it was perfectly round with twinkles in it. Then a big hand and arm, very strong looking, came into view coming to grasp this ball of light all the time saying with a low voice saying, 'I have everything under control.' It was as if I was a part of this light somehow. I felt afraid no more as soon as I saw the light and the voice.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 28,1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Depressed commuted skull fracture with multiple hematomas And profuse bleeding, and shock.  I fell and had my head smashed, resulting in a much loss of blood, and brain damage.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt I was a part of this ball of light that was drawing me. I was the twinkles in it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was aware of nothing going on in the life-flight chopper after they said we are losing him, and it went black.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I know I lived my life's events all over in a moment of time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    All sound of the engine of the chopper in flight stopped, it became very quiet. But the sound of the voice, a calm voice, reassuring me that everything will be taken care of.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was nearing a great ball of light that seemed to draw me gently to it.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A ball that looked round like a moon but only very white with twinkles in it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I feel it is near but not reachable by me.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       All fear was gone, and a restfulness was all around me.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     That everything is simpler than I ever thought before.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Past events that I had forgot passed so fast that I could not believe the speed. Things I thought I had forgot about, like faults.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am not afraid of death anymore.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That I saw this ball of light but could not stay longer to learn more.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They felt calmed by what I said.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was real, and not a dream.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lewis_d_nde.html