{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lidia_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Lidia G NDE 21144","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lidia G NDE 21144  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lidia G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						783  Lidia G NDE  21144  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Visiting a friend's place a few houses down from where I lived with my parents, I straightened an old Christmas decoration that was hanging from an old glass light fixture on the ceiling. As I looked up, it fell and hit my right brow bone, just under the eyebrow.


I immediately walked over to the vanity mirror, looked at my eye then calmly walked to the lounge room where my parents were sitting with my friends parents who just happened to be discussing a relative who had cut her eye open only days before whilst trying to open a sealed bag with a knife.


I didn't stop to talk. I held my hand over my eye and just said ‘I cut my eye dad, can we go home’.


I proceeded to walk out of the house with my parents running after me asking me to stop and show them my eye. I didn't stop walking until I got home.


As I reached our front door, I lifted my hand and showed my parents.


Mum gasped and said ‘what have you done?’ Dad told me to ‘get in the bathroom, quick.’


I leaned back against the bathroom door as my dad looked for any glass in the wound. He turned towards the sink to wet a cloth and that's when it happened.


Slowly, my knees bent as my back slid down the door. I ended up in a squatting position with my back still against the door. It felt controlled yet was out of my control.


I was totally aware that I was sliding down the door yet couldn't stop it from happening. It felt like my body was relaxing yet my mind was still alert and active.


In the next instant, I was positioned behind my dad, looking at myself slumped against the door. My initial thought was that I'd died. I almost, and I say almost, felt a fear come over me but it dissipated before I actually felt scared. Almost like when you close your front door and think ‘the keys!’ then quickly see that you have them in your hand and you carry on without another thought.


I looked at myself against the door and realized that if I was in fact dead, I wanted to stay dead.


The feeling was not of this earth and I knew that if I came back I'd lose it. It was of tranquil peace surrounded by love. Even as I say the word ‘love’ it feels heavy and not an effective word to describe the feeling. Not only was I surrounded by it, but also it passed through me effortlessly and feeling like that was all that I could ever want in life again.


The loving and weightless feeling is just incommunicable in any words known to man. I have tried for so many years to accurately describe the feeling but it is impossible. I wouldn't say I was floating because I felt lighter than air. I wouldn't say that I felt loved as we know it, because there are always strings attached or something that binds us to love. There is always a connection. With my experience it was as though it was my breath, my air, me. I was love.


My sister who was standing at the door started saying ‘dad, dad, dad.’


I felt her fear and tried to soothe her with what I can only say was a thought wave, if there is such a thing.


I was faceless, yet I smiled at her and tried to express that I'm ok.


My attention then shifted to my father and I felt his panic rise as he began to slap my cheek and shake me in an attempt to wake me up. He asked my sister to get a glass of water and she just stood there staring at me.


I suddenly became aware of the suffering they would feel and before I knew it, I felt like I was carrying two sacks of sand on each shoulder. I felt weighed down. Like the very air around my body was too much pressure.


I watched their relief as I moved my fingers and I felt very sad that I was back. I didn't want to be back.


I didn't mention my experience to anyone for at least three years at which point in time I realized that it was real after reading other people's accounts.


I now believe that our ‘body’ is a vehicle for our soul. It's a shell.


A little like a car. You get in and get to where you want to go.


It can be damaged and weathered but if looked after, may last a little longer than others.


Eventually, the car will grow old or suffer an engine problem and will no longer be an effective ‘vehicle’.


We wouldn't sit in a car that is not functional. We'd get out.


That's what I believe happened to me. My soul exited my body and for the first time in my lifetime was totally unrestrained and free. It could stretch its legs and enjoy the sensation after a thirteen year road trip.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1988

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident     A ceiling light covering fell and hit my right brow bone. Did not result in medical treatment.A ceiling light fixture fell and struck my right brow whilst I was looking up at it. I didn't feel faint or pass out. Although it resulted in a laceration, it didn't not require medical treatment.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I was out of my body, I felt completely different from how I did in my body. I was well aware that I had left what I knew up until that time to be a life existence.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was unconscious. I don't recall seeing or feeling anything whilst I was squatting before I exited my body.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I didn't hear anything that I haven't heard before or after the experience. I would say that I felt things without touch. I felt my sister's hurt and fear and I felt my dad's panic.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I would like to imagine that heaven feels like I felt during my experience. I wouldn't say that I was in heaven, as I did not leave the bathroom.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see and hear. I didn't touch, taste or smell anything. I felt more than anything else.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt an immense enveloping of love. It was a tremendously overwhelming love of the purest form. I feel it doesn't exist on our plane. I also felt a comforting understanding that I was safe.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew that I had a purpose (sounds so cliché) and that it was yet to be completed. I also came away believing in what we can't see. I always ask people if they can see air and then tell them that just because we can't see it, doesn't mean it's not there. I am also no longer afraid of death. My intuition is also high and often I am made aware of future occurrences before they occur.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I'd say accurate. For example, just recently I told my friend that his sister, who I haven't met, would be speaking to Police within a two week period. I said that she may be involved in a minor car accident. I also told him that someone he works with will indirectly implicate him in something and he would have trouble on his plate.

Just yesterday, he told me that a work colleague took photos of my friend and another co-worker and emailed them to him. His girlfriend saw the email and accused him of cheating behind her back as the photos indicate he is enjoying drinks with another woman.

My friend's sister called the Police after someone tried to break into their garage last week.

I'm not made aware very often, but when I am, I am usually spot on.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I decided I didn't want to return, but when I felt the emotional pain of my dad and sister, my return was instantaneous.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe in other forms of existence. I'm saddened at the way we treat each other. I look at people beyond what they look like.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   Expressing the feelings of ‘love’ and ‘weightlessness’ was hard. I could only describe it as feeling a serene calmness as I was enveloped in an invisible air bubble that was filled with an immense love that no one has ever experienced in everyday life. A love that to this day I have never again heard of. It felt as though I was ‘safe’ ‘home’ like I didn't need to strain my eyes or ears to see and hear like it was all done for me. It felt as though I was held close to the greatest love without feeling any arms around me. The weightless feeling I could only describe as being lighter than air itself. Lighter than a fleck of dust, lighter than anything you can imagine.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was knowing that feelings really exists and the worst was carrying two sacks of sand on each shoulder until it's time to hop out of my car.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I don't expect people to understand as I don't have the words to paint them a precise picture of what it felt like. I think that for someone that hasn't experienced it, is unimaginable to believe that it actually happens without them thinking that you were dreaming.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Questions eighteen and twenty are very similar.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lidia_g_nde.html