{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1leta_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Leta C NDE 2507","mylang":"de"}
          	        Leta C NDE 2507  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Leta C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						790  Leta C NDE  2507  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Before giving birth to my son, the nurse informed me that I was dilated at 7 cm and that they were taking me into delivery. My son was eight pounds six ounces and literally tore me to pieces. I was later informed that the doctor had to put eighty-something stitches in me to put me back together. Obviously, I lost a great deal of blood, but nothing immediately was done. An hour and a half after giving birth, I was in my room when a nurse entered to take my blood pressure. I remember her calling the station and asking them to bring her another stethoscope because hers must be broken. When she got another stethoscope, she could not find any blood pressure or a heartbeat. I was still conscious, because I remember her telling my mother, who was in the room, to please leave. My husband had gone home to shower. It was at this point that I was no longer conscious of the earthly world. I remember a falling movement through a black tunnel, then arriving at the most brilliant, beautiful white light. I have never since seen this color or type of light.

Once I reached the light, a voice - I never saw anyone, only heard a voice - welcomed me. The voice was very warm, masculine. He said, 'Welcome, Leta. Do you know where you are?' At first, I was confused - not understanding where I was or what had just happened. I remember starting to say no, but then it hit me, and I told him, 'Yes, I am in heaven, but I don't want to be here. I just had a baby and I want to be with him.' I remember telling him frantically almost pleading, 'I can't stay here. My husband doesn't know anything about babies and I need to go back to help him.' The voice said, 'So you don't want to be here?' I responded, 'Someday I want to be here, but not now. I want to be with my baby.' He said, 'Okay.' I then felt like I was going back up through the tunnel. When I came to, the doctors and nurses had the heart shockers in hand about to hit my chest. One of the nurses looked at me and said, 'I've seen that face before. You have been to the other side.'

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 10, 1986  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I had just given birth and had lost a vast amount of blood.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was talking with the person.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I normally need glasses, but I could see perfectly well during this.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Going to the light I remember a dark tunnel that I seemed to be moving down through at a great speed. Coming back through I felt like I was moving upwards through the tunnel.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was extremely bright and a kind of creamy white color.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I remember feeling comforted and peaceful, but then panicking at the thought that I was dead and could not see my child.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     As a person who has always been a Christian and a believer in Jesus, this experience has deepened my faith that God does exists.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     As a person who has always been a Christian and a believer in Jesus, this experience has deepened my faith that God does exists.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I wasn't on earth anymore. It just seemed to be a place - nothing definitive.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a deeper bond with my husband and that first child.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have only told a handful of people. I remember the day afterwards trying to tell my mother and husband and neither of them wanted to hear it. I have never mentioned it to either of them since. I have recently told two others - one does not believe it, and the other said it confirms that there is life after death.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There was never any doubt in my mind what had happened. I have always believed that I was sent back because God was not finished with me - that there was some purpose other than caring for my child. I had never heard of this happening to people, but two or three months afterwards, Oprah featured near death experiences on her show. I was amazed that others had experiences so similar to mine.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still believe the experience occurred. After having another child and a great marriage, I still very often wonder what my purpose on earth is, and if I fulfill that purpose, will I die and never come back.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have often tried to replay the passing through the tunnel in my mind, and at times, I seem to remember my life being on the sides of the tunnel, but it is very hazy.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1leta_c_nde.html