{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1leslie_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Leslie M NDE 1067","mylang":"de"}
          	        Leslie M NDE 1067  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Leslie M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						545  Leslie M NDE  1067  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had been hemorrhaging for approximately twelve hours by this time. As I previously noted (in a question above), the nurse started to give me a shot. For some reason, she had to do this shot very slowly. When she was about halfway done, I started to feel 'light'. Then I heard her say, from far away, 'What's your name? Tell me your name'. I began to say it, and then suddenly, I felt myself leave my body. It was as if I was being sucked by a vacuum from the top of my head. Then, I was in a dark tunnel, and SPEEDING upwards towards a light. When I got very close to the light, I became conscious of a 'being' in the light, welcoming me as if I had been waited for, for a long, long time - gladly, and with love. On my right were three 'beings'. We communicated, without speaking. I cannot remember much of this, except I was asked (apparently rhetorically) if I wanted to stay. I answered yes, because I really felt I had come home, finally. But they communicated that my time here was not yet over, that I had more to do.


I was sent back, backwards, through the tunnel, and I got heavier as I went, and the bells became bongs instead of tinkling.


When I returned, I was surrounded by eight nurses and doctors, I had been put on 'shock blocks', and they were trying to get a blood line in - my veins had all but collapsed due to lack of blood pressure. I tried to talk about it to my family, but they really didn't want to hear about it. My children are interested, but not my parents or my siblings. I would get quite emotional if I talked about it.


It wasn't until about ten years later that I started reading about it, and found out that others, MANY others, had experienced the same thing. I was amazed, delighted, and comforted. I had felt like a 'freak' for a long time. I knew my experience was real, have always known it, and yet, it felt so good to not be alone.


I know something else. There ARE reasons and patterns to life. We're all here for special reasons, even if just to raise our or someone else's consciousness. Even just to perform that one special act, or say that one special thing.


Thank you for giving me this forum.


I had been hemorrhaging for approximately twelve hours by this time. As I previously noted (in a question above), the nurse started to give me a shot. For some reason, she had to do this shot very slowly. When she was about halfway done, I started to feel 'light'. Then I heard her say, from far away, 'What's your name? Tell me your name'. I began to say it, and then suddenly, I felt myself leave my body. It was as if I was being sucked by a vacuum from the top of my head. Then, I was in a dark tunnel, and SPEEDING upwards towards a light. When I got very close to the light, I became conscious of a 'being' in the light, welcoming me as if I had been waited for, for a long, long time - gladly, and with love. On my right were three 'beings'. We communicated, without speaking. I cannot remember much of this, except I was asked (apparently rhetorically) if I wanted to stay. I answered yes, because I really felt I had come home, finally. But they communicated that my time here was not yet over, that I had more to do.


I was sent back, backwards, through the tunnel, and I got heavier as I went, and the bells became bongs instead of tinkling.


When I returned, eight nurses and doctors surrounded me, I had been put on 'shock blocks', and they were trying to get a blood line in - my veins had all but collapsed due to lack of blood pressure. I tried to talk about it to my family, but they really didn't want to hear about it. My children are interested, but not my parents or my siblings. I would get quite emotional if I talked about it.


It wasn't until about ten years later that I started reading about it, and found out that others, MANY others, had experienced the same thing. I was amazed, delighted, and comforted. I had felt like a 'freak' for a long time. I knew my experience was real, have always known it, and yet, it felt so good to not be alone.


I know something else. There ARE reasons and patterns to life. We're all here for special reasons, even if just to raise our or someone else's consciousness. Even just to perform that one special act, or say that one special thing.


Thank you for giving me this forum.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May 29, 1967

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth  Actually, 10 days after childbirth, due to infection and hemorrhage  Clinical death hemorrhage 10 days after childbirth-I was told they 'lost me' for about 4 0r 5 minutes.I had apparently gone into shock, which is life threatening.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I did not see my etheric form.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Even though the medical community would probably say I has basically shut down physically, I would say this was the most alert experience of my entire life.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   As I said, the 'speeding up and slowing down' to me seem to be time related.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Bells when I was going towards the light and bongs (as if everything was slowing down) when I was coming back.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     See main narrative.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I did know them. They were familiar to me.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See main narrative.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I'm not sure if the knowledge I received was a repeat of the knowledge I already had or not. I have always been drawn to this type of knowledge. I do know that it was after this experience that I started studying astrology and finding that I do have a 'gift' for it. I think that this experience opened up some channels that made me more psychic or more aware of being psychic.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I couldn't go past the light. The three figures on my right communicated in some way, that I had to go back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See main narrative.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Boy. This questionnaire is getting very long. Of course, you cannot go through this and not be changed. I have no fear of death, for others or me. In fact, I really have a hard time grieving for those who leave. My father died in 1998 from ALS (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). My husband died in 1994 from cancer. All I can think of them, or others close to me, is 'Thank God, they're free', running, moving around with no restrictions, no pain, doing what they want, and waiting for the day when we'll all be together again. I talk to them a lot, and talk to my guides and angels too, as I KNOW we all have them.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   To try to explain to anyone in MY particular circle the feeling of love, acceptance and LOVE that came from the Light. The Light that was so bright, that I could still look at directly. The bells and tinkling on the way towards the Light and the feeling of lightness, and the heaviness and bonging of the sounds when I had to come back. The feeling (I don't think I've ever described to anyone) that it was like coming home and being welcomed by a parent whose favorite child I was.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I believe this experience opened channels previously closed.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Going there. Coming back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most of them really don't believe, I don't think. But, they are kind. They believe that I believe it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   There is nothing that COULD! Until the day I die.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No. I'm getting tired.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1leslie_m_nde.html