{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1leonel_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Leonel C NDE 9677","mylang":"de"}
          	        Leonel C NDE 9677  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Leonel C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5198 Leonel C NDE 9677  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I just had a stent placed in the mid-left anterior descending blood vessel because it  had 90% blockage. Surgery went well and stopped me from having recurring heart attacks. The surgeon had gone through my right femoral artery and placed a vascular closure device to seal the blood vessel. 

I was in the hospital bed, recovering and sore from the procedure. My wife was in the room.  After a few hours after the procedure a nurse asked me to sit up, brush my teeth, and prepare to be released from the hospital.  I sat up at the edge of the bed and proceeded to brush my teeth. I rinsed my mouth and spat into the small bowl.  I heard a loud pop coming from my right hip. The pop was so loud, my wife heard the sound from some 10 feet across the room. The pain immediately began to radiate from my right hip and I told my wife to, 'Get help right away.  This is serious!' I could hear her running down the hallway and yelling for help; as I fell back length-ways across the bed. I was applying pressure to my right hip incision. The pain was so intense, I couldn’t make a sound. 

The next thing I remember seeing was me looking down on myself.  I also saw a very large man who had a bald spot on the top of his head. I was lying properly in the bed with my eyes shut and my mouth wide open with no sound coming out. The large man was wearing all-white clothes and applying extreme pressure to my right hip area. I could see my wife standing behind the large man to the side of the bed, weeping. I remained close to the ceiling and staring down on the situation. I didn't feel anything, but just an observer of this scene. All of a sudden, I’m falling from the ceiling and feeling gravity pull me down. The falling gives me a weird feeling in my stomach. My focus changed from looking down on the scene to being slammed into my body on the bed.

  I was looking up at the ceiling and into the face of a Male nurse I didn’t know. He was pressing my right hip so hard it felt like he was pressing me through the bed into the floor. I felt the pain began rushing through my whole body and I was finally able to scream out in pain. Once the bleeding was under control, the nurse stopped pressing my hip.

 When he sat up and turned around to speak to my wife, I saw a bald spot on the top of his head. How could have know this from someone I didn’t know or have only looked at him face to face in a dire situation. I saw him from above and felt no pain as I floated looking down on the scene. I was completely devoid of emotions while knowing this was how I was going to die. 

    This event still haunts me knowing what I experienced.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/09/2013  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack       Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Bleeding out from a ruptured blood vessel.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   There was an absolute calm around me.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While floating above the scene.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Complete silence.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clear. No need for glasses.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No sound.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I had a sense to come back and my perspective changed immediately. I was looking down, next falling then looking up and in pain.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     My body separated from my soul. I was looking down at my earthly being. There was no connection to what was happening to me.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. I believe you. Not sure if the experience influenced others in any way.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Too many details, like the bald spot on the top of the head of the Male nurse. He was someone I had never met before,  
  
  What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     My ideas have not changed since that day.  
  
At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1leonel_c_nde.html