{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1leonie_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Leonie W NDE 3131","mylang":"de"}
          	        Leonie W NDE 3131  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Leonie W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1123  Leonie W NDE  3131  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

1. The first NDE I experienced was as a new born in hospital. I wasn't even aware it occurred until just recently when my eldest sister brought it up in conversation (another of our siblings is currently being treated for an 'aggressive growth' and the topic of hospitals came up). She was talking about how 'unlucky' I've been in terms of illnesses and accidents and remarked that she hoped our sister (in hospital) didn't contract any diseases while she's being cared for. I knew I had contracted Golden Staff as a baby, but I didn't know I'd actually died. My parents are both in spirit now but my eldest sister is thirteen years my senior and remembers it well. Personally, I have no memories of this experience but as my sister remembers it, I was 'gone' for several minutes.

2. My second NDE I do remember quite clearly. I was five years old and a car hit me. I don't remember leaving my body, but I do remember looking down on the scene. I was with a woman I now believe is my spirit guide. She was 'glowing'. She had my hand and although we didn't speak, we were communicating clearly. I remember looking at my father (in his soldier's uniform). He was not long home from his first tour of Vietnam and he was kneeling next to me, cradling me when he suddenly yelled and screamed for someone to remove a dead pigeon that was on the road near me, I knew he was worried about disease. I also remember laughing at the thought that I was going to get into trouble because I was bleeding onto his uniform.

I was very curious (normally I would have been anxious) about upsetting my parents and also curious as to why my father was crying (I'd never seen him cry before), but my spirit guide told me they were upset because my body was hurt. My mother was on her knees next to me swaying and crying and I wanted to reach out and tell her I was okay.

I remember very clearly watching the ambulance arrive and them telling my father to put me down so they could look at me. My mother was the one that had to wrestle his grasp away from me so I could be looked at. I was watching this and apart from feeling very detached and calm, I felt sorry for my parents. I wasn't upset that I was bleeding from a head wound, and I wasn't scared of being hurt (because I wasn't feeling any pain), but I was concerned (not a strong enough a word, but the only one that comes anywhere near what I felt) that they were going to be angry with me. My guide made sure I knew that they weren't angry with me, they were scared.

I was watching the paramedics perform CPR on me when my glowing companion suggested I might like to go back. I asked her where I would be going back to. With that, two other beings arrived, my grandmothers, one I had never met and one who passed into spirit only eighteen months previously. I knew instinctively that I would be safe whatever choice I made.

I was surrounded by love. I was encompassed by warmth and a sense of belonging I've never experienced since. I remember looking back at the scene on the ground, with my mother almost hysterical and my father glassy eyed and stony-faced and I made my decision. I looked at the three loving faces around me and told them I couldn't leave my parents like that. They took me to their hearts and filled me with more love than I'd known before or since.

As soon as that thought passed through me, I was back in my body. After that, I don't remember anything except 'waking up' on an operating table, seeing a huge, unnaturally brightly lit funnel shape and hearing a doctor swear and then nothing until I woke up in bed with my parents around me. Another NDE? I really don't know, it was too short and that's all I remember of it.

It's hard to explain just how the scene below me looked. It was twilight and the light was fading fast, but the colors were so unbelievably clear and bright and my father's uniform had never looked so crisp and clear. My mother's dress was a soft floral pink, but from my vantage point, I could make out each individual flower clearly, it felt like I could have picked a bunch straight from her dress. The ambulance was a cream/yellow color and I remember the driver's uniforms being crisp white shirts and dark indigo trousers. It was like everything was in some type of relief.

Strangely enough, the sight of myself lying on the road in my father's arms with blood seeping from a head wound didn't faze or upset me. My concern was for them, my parents. I remember the crowd that had gathered but what I seemed to be focusing on was the immediate center of crisis and that center was my family.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Feb 1963 and 15 March 1968

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   AccidentIllnessChildbirthDirect head injury  '1. Golden staff contracted in hospital at birth 2. Hit by car suffering head injury'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Both: Clinical death.  Sorry, I'm not sure what you mean by the question.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As stated above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      As stated above, I don't remember leaving my body, but I do remember everything up to making the decision to stay with my parents. I don't remember coming back into my body, but I do remember the pain.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I can only say that it was like an explosion of color. Everything was significantly enhanced.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The scene below me was playing out and although I could hear everything, it was sort of muted, like I needed to hear it, but it didn't need to assault my ears.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A being of light that I assume is my spirit guide and my two grandmothers (both in spirit).

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was radiating from my spirit guide.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Confusion (I didn't know why my parents weren't angry with me and I didn't know why I couldn't touch them). Love. Safety (it's not an emotion, but I've never felt so safe).

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Foresaw my mother's death ten months previous to it actually happening. Foresaw a friend's death, five months before it actually happening. Many other smaller incidents for what seems all my life, but the first two mentioned are certainly the biggest and most shocking.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   '1. None  2. Church of England (Sunday School)'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Uncertain     As I was so young, it's hard to say what path I may have taken if I hadn't had the NDE.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   'Wiccan, practicing for 30 years, initiated for 28 years'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     As I was so young, it's hard to say what path I may have taken if I hadn't had the NDE.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain  As I was so young, it's hard to say what path I may have taken if I hadn't had the NDE.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The words we have available to us just aren't accurate/strong enough to relate the power and immensity of my NDE.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     See above please. I don't recall having any special 'gifts' prior to this NDE - but I was only five years old, but I have had this gift for what seems all my life. My only memory before this incident is from when I was three years old.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Having my grandmothers there was significant. It was like being given the okay to be there and make any choice I wanted.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I didn't realize I was sharing, but I told my parents what I saw when I was in the hospital as soon as I could. I wanted to tell them I'd seen their mums and an 'angel'. They were both very gentle with their questions and encouraged me to talk if I wanted to. They were supportive and believed me because they knew I had no way of knowing everything I did.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It was simply a part of my life; it still is a part of my life experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     It set me on my life's path and I'm grateful for the life I have, and I'm grateful that death doesn't scare me. I'm also grateful to be able to pass on this calmness to people in distress.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1leonie_w_nde.html