{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1les_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Les R Probable NDEs 6803","mylang":"de"}
          	        Les R Probable NDEs 6803  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Les R Probable NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3390 Les R Probable NDEs 6803  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I recall being wheeled into an operating room for a double hernia operation. I was frightened. I recall large oval lights and about three doctors present. I believe I was crying, as this was a traumatic event. I had never been to a hospital before. I clearly recall a doctor placing what seemed like cheesecloth into what looked like a strainer of some sort. Then he began to pour a liquid into it, very strong, as I know today it was ether. The next thing I recall, I seemed to see a bright light. I had a warm feeling.  I was floating above my body looking down as asking, ‘What are they doing to me’? Suddenly it seemed, I heard a deep voice say, ‘It’s not your time go back.’ The next thing I recall was waking up, having a orange type lotion in my groin area, and stitches.  

Not only did I have one near death experience, but another about five years later, in which me, and my twin brother went fishing on a hot summer day. I decided to go for a swim in my underwear, and jumped in. Shortly thereafter, I was being pulled under quickly by the under currents, and began struggling to keep my head above water. I fought and fought to the point at which I became too weak, and just gave in. At that point, all calm came over me. I had no worry in the world. It was the most pleasant feeling I ever experienced. By that time, my twin brother was throwing old tires or anything else to me to save me. He then tied the two fishing poles together, walked out, and pushed the rod into my hand. I grasped it, and he pulled me into shore. 

Sadly to say, my twin brother passed away in 2007, but throughout our lives, we had what is called Twin Connections. We are written about in a book by the same name, authored by Debbie LaChusa. Even through his struggle to live, I experienced things that I came to find out later at his funeral. Such as when the veteran's administration's neurologist did a brain biopsy, that same date and time, I developed a large bump on the right side of my head. I discovered while looking at him in the casket, and seeing clearly where they did the biopsy, was the exact same spot.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1962

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.    Other: Healthy receiving anesthesia (Ether)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The doctors seemed to be working on me frantically.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Very, very clear, I have worn glasses since that time, and can’t see without them, but it was sharper than high definition today.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I couldn't say.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I explained this above. Funny how I am ahead of you.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was sharp and crisp.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I saw the tunnel, but a voice just said it wasn't my time and I should go back.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I do recall, my little other twin sister who passed away at age eighteen months, but that was another circumstance in which I was a teenager at a party, drinking, and was staring at a candle light, and saw my twin sister face in it. Two sets of twins in our family.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Warm, bright calm light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Peace, peace, peace. No worries, no fears.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was a child. I felt scared but also a warm feeling, especially when floating above my body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Beyond anything you can imagine.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   At the age of ten, recall going to church a few times, not much more but a exposure related to grandparents religious beliefs from Ireland (Presbyterian).

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     We tend to forget our true meaning on earth from time to time with all the grief this world passes out. But it always comes back when in doubt.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Not much of a church going person, but strong belief in God

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Your questions are getting riduculas as this point

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Jesus and God and family of all

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Life after death, but at a higher level above anything earthy, but simular only much brighter, colorful and peaceful

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     No hatred at all, caring above description

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have a great desire to help sick people. I’m a caring individual towards others. For a man, I consider myself a thoughtful, emotional person.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I tell anyone who is close to dying that they are going to a better place. I tell them my stories.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   This is something you never forget, especially as a child, children are the purest form of god we know. I have a deep concern for children who are sick, and donate to Make A Wish Foundation.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a keen sense as what to expect before it happens.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It’s all meaningful. Living on earth is the hell we live.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many, many people, just recently when a friend of mine just died. I comforted his family with my stories. Maybe that's my purpose.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Best damn thing that ever happened to me. As I grow older, it brings me back, now I am fascinated about astrology, cosmology, and the universe. By the way, God lives with all the universe, multi-universes, and beyond. We are just an example of the whole picture. We seek the answers, only to find more questions. The only one place you don't have to ask, and there's only one way to know, when god has his plan for you completed.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1les_r_probable_nde.html