{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1leonard_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Leonard S NDE21878","mylang":"de"}
          	        Leonard S NDE21878  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Leonard S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1701 Leonard S NDE 21878  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I only remember that when we were at the hospital Emergency room, I was floating above my body.  My body was on a stretcher or gurney and my mom was next to me crying.  I remember seeing someone come up and feel my arm for a pulse (I assume) and turning to my mother and shaking his head.  The next thing I saw was another individual being talked to by the first one and that individual checking on me.  He said something to my mother and then I was wheeled into a treatment area.  This is all I saw. I awakened a day or so later.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summer 1964

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Hit in the back of head with baseball bat.  Being hit in the back of the head with a baseball bat.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt whole, but I was floating above everything. I did not seem to be solid.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   I am not sure.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    None that I can remember.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None that I can remember.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I say yes because I believe I returned to my body when the second man took me into the exam area.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Non practicing Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My belief in a hereafter has grown stronger from the experience.  I know there is a form of life after the death of this body.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I didn't tell anyone at the time for fear that I would be looked at as a freak.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was looking down on what was occurring. I don't really believe I realized what was happening to me at the time.  The worst part was watching my mother being told I was dead.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My wife.  Her reaction was disbelief.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1leonard_s_nde.html