{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lennie_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Lennie B NDE 2664","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lennie B NDE 2664  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lennie B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						884  Lennie B NDE  2664  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  A real experience 'NDE'.

Last Monday of April 1992, I got my first heart attack only thirty-nine years old. Two weeks earlier, I felt something in my chest, but I was naive thinking it could not have been the heart. I imagined it to be a rib that had been punched, I've broken them a number of times. I also thought it could be a muscle inflammation, well you know how it is when searching for an explanation. I felt like an elephant was sitting on my chest, with shortness of breath and a burning pain that was moving into my left arm. But a couple of pain killers used to help a little. This Monday I went to my work, thirty kilometers from Ulricehamn, like I use to do. I lit a cigarette and took a couple of deep drags, thinking I was going to die in the car. An indescribable pain. Arriving at work, my work-mates saw that things were not right. They nagged me about going to the hospital in Boras, but I refused, as I was the only chef. There was nobody else who could cook the food, and my guests were most important. But with all the nagging, I called the emergency ward in Boras. When I explained how I felt, they more or less demanded me to come there immediately. Yes, I found a person who could take over for me temporarily. I took a couple of pain killers in a little water, drank it, and sat down in the car.

A janitor wanted to drive me, but stubborn as I am, I thought that had I driven to work I could drive back; it was about sixty kilometers to the hospital. I told them I was driving home and if it came to the worst, my wife could drive me. But as I was driving, it wasn't that bad, I decided to drive all the way. About ten kilometers from Boras I began to suspect it could be the heart, this pain and severe shortness of breath cannot be put into words. At the hospital, I was going to put money into the parking meter.  Behind me stood a girl, she worked at the hospital. She asked me how I was feeling. I looked at her and said, 'I feel like sh@#.  I'm just going to pay for the car.' Calmly and nicely, she said she would arrange that, at the same moment I lost consciousness. I woke up in the emergency unit, have never seen so many nurses there for one single person. I was lying on a stretcher, and they ran up to the intensive care unit with me. They connected me to a number of machines, now I had five dropping bottles (IV's) hanging on a stand.

I was not allowed to do anything myself, because I could get another heart attack. The blood pressure was very high 220/135, and the vascular spasm attacks were getting closer and closer, even though they pumped me full with nitroglycerine. Now I was really bad, don't remember very much of it.

But Tuesday night my heart stopped, I was transported to Gothenburg very fast. There they were going to do an acute balloon rupture, but my heart stopped again. I was totally gone, but now something happened that I feel is fantastic. A totally different world opened up, I saw myself laying on the bed but I myself was on my way towards a light. I turned around and looked at myself, but then kept on walking or rather floating towards this wonderful light. This warmth and this joyful place was lovely. Here there were no stress, no high demands and no evil. It was so full of love that it cannot be described, everything was beauty. A place to be longed for, such wonderful verdure and warmth. Here there was only joy.  Everyone was wonderful. No one was superior of one another, there I stood and all I wanted was to climb over. Then I heard somebody call my name, 'Lennie come back, Lennie, Lennie come back stay here. You are needed here come back and stay.' I heard those words repeatedly, turned around and looked at her. She was standing behind me at my right side. She was the most beautiful girl I have ever seen, with wonderful eyes that would make anyone melt. Beautifully made up, what lips. I wanted to hug her, yes even kiss her, even though I was happily married at the time. I looked at her, she begged so humbly, 'Please stay we need you, stay here come back.' Who could resist such a woman, so I turned around and woke up in my own body.

About an hour later when I was lying in my bed, I called to the staff. I asked for this nurse, everyone looked strange at me. There is no such person here, and never has been. I was laying there thinking about this for a long time and do so often even today. Was it my guardian angel or what. However, this came to change my life, mostly my values in life. I think it does that to everyone who has stood at the gate; today I appreciate the small things. I think life is fantastic, but death does not scare me. I know it is a new phase in life, at another level. Take care of your lives and Live Well in Harmony with yourself and your Spirit.

Your Devoted Lennie B.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Sista måndagen i April 1992  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack     Två hjärtinfarkter inpå varandra  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Heart attack.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     En grön blomsteräng med ett vitt palats som jag inte nådde fram till.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   ingen  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Tror på något som finns i varje enskild människa, alla har en gud i sig  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lennie_b_nde.html