{"name":"Compleat System Of Magick","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1729__defoe___compleat_system_of_magick.pdf","mytitle":"Compleat System Of Magick","mylang":"de"}
Compleat System ofMagigk i
OR, THE
Hiprj ofthe BLACK-ART.
SHEWING,
I. The Original of Magicians ; and how fome of them
were made Kings, as Zoroajler^ Cadmus^ and many-
others.
II. How the ancient Magi^ who ftudy'd Philosophy,
Astronomy, ^c. were induc'd to turn Wizards and
Sorcerers^ and deal with the Devil ; and how their
Converfation began,
III. The different Shapes affum'd by t\\t Devil in his firfl
Appearances to Magicians ; and whether he is, or has
been, allow'd to alTume a Human-Shape.
IV. Who lirfl pradlifed Magick as a Diabolical Art, and
its Progrefs among the Egyptians and Fhoeniciahs \ by
whom it was firji openly encourag'd, and of its p^e-
fent State.
V. What the Black-Art^ really is^ the various Manner of
its Pradtice in different Parts of the World, and of the
DoElrine of Spirits.
VI. How far it may be fuppos'd there can be an Inter-
courfe between Superiour and Infernal Beings, and
whether the Magick-Art now fubfifls.
Vli. How far the Devil may be raifed \^-^ Magical Opera-
tions *, and whether it is by their own Power, or by
mutual Concert with the Devil,
The Whole Compiled from the beft Authorities
Ancient and Modern.
Z O N T> on:
Printed for |. Clarke, at the Royal-lxchange ; A. Millar, againft
St. Cteme}j?s Church in the Strand 3 H. Noorthouck, under the
Great- Piazza, Covent-Garden ^ T. Green, at Charing-Crofs 5 J.
Pej^
in M^ejlminjler-Hall ; J. Jackson, and Mrs. Graves, at St. James's .^
and J. Brin^ley,, in New-Bond-flrcet. M.Dcc.xjtix, fPrice f/.)
C
PREFACE.
remo've a Difficulty in my Title,
and that ive may not Jlumhle at
the Threjholdy fame Preface to this
neiv Undertaking may he necejfary, hut it
nvill he "very jhort.
If hy A S Y S T E M c?/ this terrihle thing
called Magickj my Readers Jhould expeU a
Body of the Black Art as a Science, a Book
of Rules for InJlruUion in the PraBice, or a
Magical Grammar for Introduction to young
BeginnerSy all I can fay to fuch is, that they
nvill he mijlaken.
The World has perhaps heen impofed upon
in nothing more than in their Notions of this
dark ProBice, as 'well its antient as its mo-
dern State. Mojl People, <when they read of
the antient Magicians, think they are reading
of old Necromancers and Conjurers, njohen
really at fir(I they "were 'very honeji Men-,
and npiv, 'when they read of them in their mo-
dern Practice, they take them for honeji E?/-
^
' vr nvhm they are, generally fpeaking, meer
A 3 Jug^
PREFACE.
Juglersy Cheats, Mountehanks, and Poflure-
majfers j
or elfe, real Wizards and do^nrio-ht
Dealers ^ith the Devil.
There is One Sort ijuould fain he called
Cunning Men, than ^hich nothing can he a
grojfer piece of Delufton-^ and 'tis not their
Cunningy hut their Clients^want ofCunningy that
gives them the leajlAppearance of Common Senfe
in all their PraBice. 'Tis a Jlrange Piece of
Art njjhere Fools cheat Foolsy and the Blind
and the Ignoranty are impofed upon hy the Blind
mid the Ignorant.
All the Difco'very lean make hy it isy to note
'what a 'vijthle Difference there is het'ween
Cunning and Wit j hefween Slight of Han^y
as I may call ity and Underjlanding. 'Tis evi-
dent the Pretenders to Magick at this time
are fo far from dealing nvith the Devil, that
they mnjl certainly he dealt "with hy the Devil,
that have any thing to do "with them.
In thefrjl Ages they nvere Wife Men j in the
middle AgCy Madmen ; in thefe latter Ages,
Cunning Men : In the earliejl Time they ivere
Honejl j in the middle TimCy Rogues , in thefe laji
Timesy Fools : At firjl they dealt 'with Nature ;
then "with the Devil-, and no^ not "with the
Devil, or ivith Nature either : In the firjt
Ages
PREFACE.
Ans the Magicians luere "wifer than the
People •, in the fecond Age, <vjickeder than the
People ^ and in our Age^ the People are both
m)ifer and 'wickeder than the Magicians.
Ifee no great Barm in ourprefent Pretenders
to Magicky if the poor People could hut keep
their Mo7tey in their Pockets ; and that they
Jhould ha've their Pockets picked hy fuch an
unperformingy unmeaningy ignorant Crenx) as
thefe arey is the only Magick that I can find
in the ^hole Science.
The hefl Courfe that I can think of to cure
the People of this Itch of their Brainy the
Tarantula of the prefent Agey in running to
Cunning Meny as you call themy and the mojt
likely to ha^e Succefs, is thisy of laughing at
them : the Satyr has reformed the Age of
many a Follyy nvhich the Solid and the Soletmi
could ne'ver reach : E'ven general Vicey
^ould the Men of Wit and Men of (polity
join in the Attefnpty might he hifsd out of
the World^ thd all the Preaching and all the
Preachers Jhou dproDefruitlefs and exhaufted:
Men are to he ridiculed imto good Mannersy
nvhen they ^ont he cudgelled into it.
Tour modern Harlequins^ efpeciallyfo exqui-
fitely contri^'dy and fo perfeBly ^ellperformed
as
P R E F A C E.
as thofe of late hy Mr. Rich, {in <whichy not
to flatter hiniy "we mujl acknoivledge he has out-
done all that "was before him) ha^e gone far-
ther to expofe and run doivn the Magick I am
[peaking of and cure the World of the Hyppo
and the Vapours^ than the "whole Stage could do
hefore •
najy than all the hrightejl Vramatick
Performances of the lajlAge could pretend to.
Ne'ver ^as the popular Frenzy letter expofed-^
the Ignorance on one fide^ and the Impudence on
the othery more accurately laid open ^ the Mi-
mickry is mimicked to the Life ; the Magician
made a Fooly the Fool ticktd into more Wit^ and
the Devil himfelflaught out of Countenance.
We lea've the Remainder to he compleated
ly the fame Hand ; the Succefs cannot
faily <while the Senfes and the Pajftons are to
he "wrought upon by the Eye-fight: Our Me-
thod looks the fame Way, only that ive bring
it up from its Originaly and purfue it to the
End of its ProfpeU. Mr. Rich Jho'ws you
"what foolijh things you are jufi no"w doings
'we Jho'w you "what your Ancefiors did be-
fore yoUy and "whatfiill "worfe things the Ages
to come are like to do after you.
Let no Man be difgufied at the good Ac-
count nve gi've of the Original and Wifdom of
the
PREFACE.
the Magi, and then call them Magicians :
if
ive nvill dehauch the Word nvith a degeneracy
ofPraFfice^ the Fault is our o'wn. Their Ma-
gick "was truly Science^ njuhereas ours is nei-
ther Magick or Sciencey hit a kind of Devi-
liirn, a PraBice carry'd on^hy Men that 'would
he nvicked if they did not "want Wit^ and are
no other^ife Harmlefsy than as they happen
. to he Fools.
E^en at its hejl, 'tis a Bdibd-like Confujton^
that fpeaks federal Languagesy and ?ione to
he underjlood'^ a campleat Degeneracy of or
Deviation from^ commoyi Senfe ^ a Complication
of Negatives, that how many foever you put
together, wont make up one Affirmative.
Now, to bring this l>\othin^ from the Some-
thing it derivd from, tho it feems a little
Difficult, yet 'tis very Neceffary, and this is
the Reafon why I call it a Hijiory.
I have tracd it as far hack as Antiquity
gives us any Clue to dif
cover ithy\ it feems
to have its Beginning in the Ignorance and
Curiojtty of the darkeft Ages of the World,
vjhen Miracle, and fomething Wonderful^ was
expected to confirm every advancd Notion \
and "when the wife Men, having racked their
Invention to the utmojl, called in the Devil to
a their
PREFACE.
their Afftjlance, for nvant of better Help ^ and
thofe that did not run into Satan s Mea-
furesy and gi^e themfehes up to the Infernal,
yet trod fo near^ and upon the 'very edge of
Helly that it "was hard to dijUnguiJh betnveen
the Magician and the Devil , andthere they have
gone on ever Jince : fo that ahnoji all the Dif-
pute het'ween us and the Magicians is, that they
fay they converfe ivith good SpiritSy and ^cue fay
ifthey deal "voith any Sprits it is ivith the Devil:
let the folloiving Sheets determine the Matter*
Hail ! Dangerous Science^ falfly call'd Sublime,
Which treads upon the very brink of Crime.
Hell's Mimick, Satan's Mountebank of State,
Deals with more Devils than Heav'n did e'er create.
The Infernal Juggling-box, by Hell defign'd,
To put the grand Parade upon Mankind.
The Devil's firft Game, which he in Eden play'd,
When he harangu'd to Eve in Mafquerade.
In the firft Ages Men miftook thy Face,
ThyConj'ringpaftforWir, thy Gravity for Grace,
By thee the Junior World in Witchcraft grew,
That Witchcraft ftill the Senior Worlds perfuc.
Nature's firft Ullier to indu£t Mankind,
Prompting wife Arts to his enquiring Mind.
To Juhal thou, and T'ubal^ Science brought,
To This his Metals, That his Mufick taught.
But born a Cheat, under the Cloak of Grave,
Firft made him a Mechanick^ then a Knave,
CONTENTS.
INTRODUCTION. Of the Meaning of the ferms %
who and what kind of People the Magicians
were^ and how the Words Magick or Magician
were originally underjlood. Page i
Chap. 11. How PVifdom and Learning ad'vanc'd Men itt
the Firji Jges to Royalty and Go'vernment^ and How
many of the Magicians were made Kings on that Ac-
count 'y as Zoroaller, Cadmus, and many others, p. 38
Chap. III. Of the Rea
fon and Occafion which brought
the ancient honeft Magi, whofe original Study was
Philofophy^ Aftrommy^ and the Works of Nature^
to turn Sorcerers and Wizards^ and deal with the
Devil y and how their Converfation began. p. 6t
Chap. IV. Of what Shapes the Devil ajfum'd in his
firft Appearances to the Magicians, and others^ in
the Fir
ft Ages of the World y and whether He is, or
has been allowed to ajfume a human Shape, or no. p. p
i
Chap. V. A Farther Account of the DevilV Condudi
in Imitating Divine Infpirations -y Something of the
Difference between them 5 and particularly of Signs
and Wonders, Falfe as well as i'rue^ and the Cheats
of the Former. p. 1
2^
Chap. VI. Of who were the firft PraBifers of Ma-
gick, as a Diabolical Art, and how it was handed
on to the Egyptians and Phoenicians, where it was
^
firft openly encouraged, p. 141
Chap. VII. Of the Pra6iice andProgrefsof Magickyas
it iinozv explained to be a Diabolical Art, how itfpread
it felf in the World, and by what Degrees it grew up
to the Height which it has ftnce arrived to, p. 184
PART II.
INTRODUCTION. 0/ /^^Black Art // /?//"i what
it really is, why there are feveral differing Prapi-
ces of it in the feveral Parts of the World, and
what
CONTENTS.
what thofe Practices are 5 as alfo^ what is contained
in it in General. p. 2i8
Chtip. I. Of Mlddern Magick^ or the Black 4rt as now
in its PraWice and Perfe6lion, p. 228
Chap. II. T'he Scene changed -y
'That as the Devil a^ed
M Firfi with his Black Art without the Magici-
ans, fo the Magicians feem to carry it on now with'
out the Devil. p. 248
Chap. III. Of the prefent Pretences of the Magicians :
How they defend themfelves j and fome Examples of
their PraUice, p. 284
Chap. IV. Of the Doctrine of Spirits as it is underfiood
by the Magicians 5 How far it may he fuppofed there
way he an Intercourfe with Superior Beings^ without
any Familiarity with the Devil, or evil Spirits j with
a Tranfition to the prefent Times, p. 321
Chap. V. Of the Magick of the prefent Time^ as it
jlands firip'd in the lafi Chapter, from all the Pr£'
tences of the Magicians, and the Delufwns of Hell 5
of what Length it has gone^ or is like to go^ in de-
luding Mankind'^ what the Magicians can do^ and
that they really have now no Converfe with the Devil
at all : So it hat the Art being at an End^ the Hijiory
comes to an End of courfe, p. 3 f7
Chap. V I .
Of raifing the Devil hy Magical Operations -,
whether the Magicians really have fuch a Power or
no^ and if they have^ whether it is performed as an
Art^ and hy the Confequence of Magical Experiments^
er whether it is hy Concert and mutual Confent^ he^
tween Satan and the Magicians. p. 379
Chap. VII. Seeing^ as the M^gicmis pretend^ they do
mt Deal with the Devil, or raife the Devil j PFho it
is they do Deal with^ how their Correfpondence is
managed^ and why do they Deal with Good Spirits^
hy Conjurings and the Black Art? p. jpz
System of Magick.
INTRODUCTION.
Of the Meaning of the Terms ; who and what
kind of TeopLe the Magicians were^ and
how the Words Magick or Magician were
originally underjiood.
BEFORE I come to the main End
S of this Undertaking, which is plainly
^ laid down in my Title, 'tis neceflary to
'^M£ explain the Terms, and to determine
fully what is and is not to be under-
flood by Magick^ the Black Art^ and fuch like hard
Words as we ihall be oblig'd to make frequent \J{q
of as we go along.
I am willing to fuppofc my Readers not fo un-
acquainted with the ancient Ufage, as not to know
that the Word Magick had a quite different Signi-
fication in former Times from what it isnowapply'd
to, and that the People who fludied or profcfsM that
which we now call Magick^ were quite another fort
of Folk, than thofe worthy Gentlemen who now
apply themfelves to that Profeffion.
In a Word, a Magician was no more or lefs in
the ancient Chaldean Times, than a Mathematician^ a
B Man
A SYSTEM
Man of Science, who ftor'd with Knowledge and
Learning, as Learning went in thofe Days, was a
kind of walking Di6i:ionary to other People, and
inftru6ted the reft of Mankind in any Niceties and
Difficulties which occur*d to them, and which
they wanted to be inform'd about 5 and in this
Senfe we are to be underftood when we fpeak of
the Magicians in Egypt^ in Perfta^ in Babylon^ 6cc.
Thus when any Omens, ill Signs and Tokens,
Dreams, or other ftrange things happened in thofe
Times, whether publickly in the Air, or particu-
lar to Perfons and Families, we find not only the
ordinary People^ but even Kings and Princes fent im-
mediately for the Magicians and the wife Men, the
Southfayers, t^c, to tell them what the Meaning of
fuch things was.
Thefe Magicians are explained on many Occa-
fions by the term o£wife Men^ and that Term again
by Men of Knowledge, and more than ordinary
Underftanding. Men, in a word^ who ftudied Na-
ture, look'd up into, and made Obfervations from,
the Motions of the Stars and other heavenly Bo-
dies, and who, as *tis /aid in the Scriptures^ under-
Hood the Signs of the Times, the Face of the Hea-
vens, and the Influences of the Superior Luminaries
there > who fearched into the Arcana of Nature, and
were Mafters of perhaps a little experimental Philo-
fophy > I fay a little, for Reaibns which I fhall re-
peat prefently.
It was no Impropriety in Speech to call fuch as
iht^Qwife Men at that time, tho' perhaps the utmoft
of their Knowledge might arrive to no more than
what we would now juftly call fuperficial. Be-
caufe at that time the Knowledge of Nature was
very green and young in the World j and the Phi-
lofopher of thofe times, if he was to be rated by the
Rules Men are pleafed to judge by at this time, would
be fomething like our Learned Friend S'lv^ho. J—
whofc
of M A G I C K.
whofe particular Honour it was to be a DoSor
among Fools, and a Fool among Do6tors.
To thefe Magicians Men went on the feveral Oc-
cafions hinted as above for the Solution of doubt-
ful ^eflionss to be refolved and diredcd in difficult
and intricate Undertakings-^ to be advifed in things
of Moment 5 and thefe were therefore called Sages
firft, and for a long time 5 and afterwards Magi^
from the greatnefs of their Wifdom. Hence the
wife Statefmen to whom the Government of the
Median Interregnum was committed were called
Magi\ as wife Men to whom alone it was fit to
intruft fo important an Article as that of the Go-
vernment of an Empire.
Thus afterwards in the Ifraelites times, their
ivife Men were called by another but very fignifi-
cant Name or Term {viz.) Seers, a Word after-
wards held in fuch Veneration, that they thought
fit to beilow it upon their Prophets^ who alfo were
called Seers^ tho' afterwards they obtained a fupe-
rior Title, namely that of Man of God. But before
that I fay the wifer Men were called Seers j and this is
moft exprefly fignified in that eminent Text,
I Sam. ix. p. where 'tis faid that before time they
ufcd to fay when they wanted to enquire of God,
that is to enquire about any thing difficult, come and
let us go to the Seer, that is to the Magician^ the 'wife
Man^ xhtPropbet^ov what elfeyou pleafeto call him.
It is plain from the fame Text alfo that they
fometimes went to thofe People called Seers
upon meaner Enquiries j for they took it for grant-
ed that thofe Seers dealt in all fecret Matters 5 Thus
Aha-ziah fent to Baal-zebub when he was fick, to
know if he fhould live or dye, z Kings i. 2, 2. and
fo the King of Syria's Captains told their Mafter,
that EliJJja the Prophet told the King of Ifrael
what he did in his Bed-chamber, z Kings vi. 12.
And to bring it down to a meaner Cafe flill >
B i evea
A SYSTEM
even when Saul wanted but to find his Father^s
loft Afles or Cattle, his Servant faid to him, let
us go and enquire of the S e e R j and fo they did, and
found News of them.
Likewife it appears by the fame Text, that thofe
Seers^ or Prophets^ or Magi^ made an Employment
of it, that it was their Bufinefs to tell Men of their
loft Goods, direct them in their Way, foretel of
their Health, and the likej and that they made a
Lively hood or Trade of it 3 therefore when SauVs
Servant propofed to him to go to the Seer, Saul
made a Difficulty of it becaufe he had nothing to
give him > as if he fhould have faid, I have no Money in
my Pocket, and not aLoaf of Brcadto give the cun-
ning Man or Seer, and how ftiould 1 expert that
he fhould give me any Account of my Cattle for
nothing? Then when the Servant told him he had
a fourth-part of a Shckle of Silver in his Purfc,
(which by the way was not above feven Pence half-
penny, or thereabouts) Saul was mighty glad, re-
folving to give the low-priz'd Magician or Prophet
that vaft Fee, to tell him what was become of his
Father's Afles.
It feems the Lawyers Fees were not fo high in thofe
Days as they have been fincci for if he had not had
that Piece of Silver, perhaps about as big as an En-
glijh Groat, Ifay^ if he had not had that, a couple
of half- penny Barly Loaves it feems would have
been as good, and have done as wellj thofe
Loaves being not ufually bigger than our Half-
penny, or at beft than our Penny Wheaten brown
Bread Loaves are now.
Again you find when Benhadad King of Da-
Tnafcus fent to Elijha the Prophet to know if he
fhould live or dye, he fent the Prophet a Prefent,
forty Camels loaden with all the good things of
Damafcus^ z Kings viii. p. A large Fee ! But 'tis to
be fuppofed the Gift fent, was not fuited to the
Prophet
of M A G I C K,
Prophet fo much as to the Sender j he gave as a
Kingi but ftill we find the Seers were fuppos'd
to make the Gain their Bufinefs.
That it was the fame thing with the Magi before
that, we have no reafon to doubt, tho' we have no
Particular in Story relating to that part. But we
find thofe Southfayers^ Magicians^ and wife Aden,,
who were lent for by Pharaoh King of Egypt to
interpret his Dream, were to have receiv'd great
Rewards, if they had given Satisfadion to the
King 5 and Jofeph we fee did receive great Rewards,
as well as Honour, on that Account.
Again afterwards in the Cafe of Nebuchadnez-
zar's Dream, there is a fufficient Teftimony that
thofe wife Men^ Aftrologers^ Magicians^ &c. were
eftefmed not to be Wizards and Dealers with the
Devil, but only (as I have explain'd the Word a-
bove) meer Philofophers^ or wife Men, Men of Lear-
ning and Knowledge, Men of Science and of Skill in
the works of Nature 5 for when the King demanded
of them to tell himnot only the Interpretation of the
Dream,but the Dream it felf,and threaten'd them with
Death in cafe they fiiil'd to perform ir, they expo-
llulate with the King upon the unreafonablenefs of
the Propofal, as a thing that no King in the World
would expedl from them, and that was not in the
power of Nature to perform
:
As if they had faid, does your Majefty think we deal
with the Devil^ thatyoufiOuldexpeUfuch a Piece ofWork
a§ this from us ? // is not in the Power of any^ or of all
the wife Men^ or Philofophers, in the Worlds and
therefore it cannot he imagined we jhould do it \ hut
let the King tell us the Dream^ and then we will interpret
it, and thafs as much as Man can do.
'Tis plain from hence, not only that the Magi
or Magicians in thofe Days were not really Conju-
rers and Dealers with the Devil, but that they were
yjaderftood to be what we may call Scholars^ Men
B 3
of
A SYSTEM
of Learning, of Wifdom, and of a fuperlor Un-
derftanding : So when the King calls for Daniel to
prefer him, it is faid he did it becaufe an excellent
Spirit was found in him-, and in another Place 'tis
faid, that the Spirit of the Holy Gods was in him-y
whereas at the fanae time 'tis certain that the King
efteemed him as one of the Magicians -,
nay, and he
was fet over them, as the Chief and Governor of
all the reft. Certainly then they did not take
thofe Magicians to be what we have fince under-
ftood of ours, {viz) Dealers with the Devil, and
Sorcerers, fuch as ought to be punifhed for having
or ufing unlawful Arts, and Pradices with evil Spi-
rits and the like.
Had this been the common Opinion of them,
they would have been treated after another man-
ner, both then and in after- Ages-, for not only a-
mong the Jews^ but in other Nations, fuch as we
call now Magicians were punifhcd as Criminals.
But to go back a little to Originals, and to fetch
up Knowledge from the Fountain: Man born igno-
rant arrives to very little Knowledge but what comes
by one of thefe two Channels.
Firfiy Long Experience, Study and Application.
Secondly^TQ2iQ\iing andlnftruftion from thofe that
went before.
I ihall infift only upon the laft, and that parti-
cularly for the fake of what was Antediluvean. The
moft early Knowledge which Mankind obtain'd in
thofe Days, is fuppos'd to be by Teaching imme-
diately from Heaven i for Example. Adam and
Eve''% Mouths were open'd at the fame time with
their Eyes, and they could fpeak, and knew what
Language to fpeak, as foon as they were made. But
'tis moft certain alfo, that all the fpeaking World
iince Adam and Eve learnt it fucceflively from
them, by mere Imitation of Sounds, teaching of
Parents and Nurfes, and the like.
After
of M A G I C K.
After Adam^ his Pofterity having learnt to fpeak
immediately from him, and fo to converfe with
one another, a confummate acquired Knowledge in
feveral other things quickly followed j particular
Arts and Sciences were either taught by Infpira-
tion from Heaven, or attained by the exquifite Ca-
pacities of their Minds 5 One having a Genius to
this, Another to that kind of Knowledge j as one
to Mufic, another to working in and finding out
Metals and Minerals in the Earth, then meking5
refining, cafting, and other Operations and Im-
provements, as Knowledge came in by the Door
of Experiment.
Adam's Pofterity (T mean his particular Houfe or
Family) learnt to fpeak more immediately from
him and Eve their Mother by meer imitation
of Sounds, as we do to this day from one an-
other.
But having thus obtained Speech from their im-
mediate Parents, all other acquired Knowledge men-
tioned above, fuch as of their Improvement of
Culture, Difcoveries in Nature, and the like^ feem'd
to be the Confequence, i. Of a vehement and in-
flamed Defire after Knowledge, planted in their
Minds by Nature it felfj an inquiring Difpoii-
tionj being fenfiblc of a vaft Treafure hidden in
Nature apt for Difcovery, and which as it were
waited only for the Search, m order to open it felf
to their View for the general Good. z. A vaft
capacious Underftanding fitted for that Search, and
which we have reafon to believe the Antediluvean
Fathers were more than ordinarily furnifhed with,
guiding them dire6lly to the Search after, and into
all the Arcana of Nature, with a Readinefs and
Accuracy fo pointed, as if they had been before-
hand inftrufted what to fearch for, how to fearch
for it, and where to find it. 3. A fecret In-
fpiration from Heaven, filling them with, or at
B 4 Icaft
8 A S Y S T E M
leaft direfting them to the Knowledge of things in
a more than ordinary manner.
N. B. We cannot doubt but were there now to ap-
pear a Man perfedly untaught, not having con-
verft at all with Men taught and infl:ru6ted before
him, and yet fhould have a Treafure of fuch
Knowledge in his Mind, exerting it felf in
i\6tion to fuch a degree as was ordinary to
the Patriarchs of the Antediluvean Age, wc
fhould prefently give him up for a Magician in
the groflefl Acceptation of the Word, and fay
in fhortthat he deals with the De'vil
But be it fo or not, and let the confummate
Knowledge of thofe Patriarchs, come which way
it will, and be as great as it will, or as you will
fuppofc it to be, this is certain, it died with themj
'twas all drown'd in the Flood, the Poft-dilwvean
Age inherited very little of itj or if they did, it
was drown'd again in the Flood of Vice and Wick-
ednefs, which almoft as foon overfpread the World,
as the People did the Plains of Shinaa?'^ and much
fooner than they fpread the reft of the Earth with
their Pofterity, however faft they multiplied.
Nor do I wrong the People of thofe firft Ages
after the Flood in the leaft, when I fay they feem'd to
have loft all that fund of Knowledge, all that capa-
cious Underftanding, and all that facred Infpiration,
which their Predeceffbrs the Antediluveans were
Mafters of 5 I need go no further for an Ex*
ample of it than the building of Babel. For was
it poflible that any thing fo abfurd and ridiculous
could have entred into the Thoughts of Men, if
they had not been funk into an unexpreffibic Dege-
neracy as to Senfe, a meer Stupidity of Underftan-
ding? To fay nothing of their having loft all Pre-
tence 10 Infpiration \ fo far were they from any Share
of facred Light in it, that they could not be faid to
have
of M A G I C K.
have aftcd with common Senfe. Blefs us ! to build
aHoufe to reach up to Heaven! or as we may with
more Propriety exprefs it, to build a Stair-cafe to
go up into Heaven by 5 and that in cafe of an-
other Flood too, which adds to the Madnefs of the
defign many ways.
1. They had certainly no Notion of Heaven it
fclfj not to fpeak of religious Notions of Heaven,
they muft be entirely dark and Itupid as to thePhi-
lofophyofit; The immenfc Diftance, the differing
Regions, the Alteration of things in their natural
Circumllanccs and Situation by the Way, or in the
Paffage.
2. They had no Underftanding of their own
Conflitution, or at leafl: they mult have very grofs
and abfurd Conceptions about it 5 as particularly of
their breathing and fubfifting in the Regions above
the Atmofphere, and in the pure unmix'd jEtber^
(or what eJfe it ihould be called) which they who
mounted up to fuch Height would be fure to meet
with, and in which they might as eallly conceive
an ImpofTibility of breathing, as they could con-
ceive of the Impoffibility of living without Breath.
^. They muft have had no Notion of the Na-
ture of the Flood it felfj as that of the Power,
Force, and Weight of the Waters, when moving in
fuch a collected Body 5 how unable any thing they
could build would be to refift the Force, and not
be prefently blown up and driven away by the
Stream.
4. They muft be utterly ignorant of the Nature
of the Earth on which their Building ftood ;
how no Foundation could be laid fo deep or
fo firm in ir, but what by the Violence of fuch an
immenfe Ocean of Water would be loofen'd and
overwhelm'd, and the Fabrick by confequence be
brought dowui the Earth which upheld it being
wafh'd away.
f. They
A SYSTEM
f. They muft be wholly ignorant of what our
learned Theory Men infilt to have been the Caufes
of the Deluge, namely an Abforption or breaking in
of the Surface of that Earth which was before a
known Cavity or Hollow fiU'd up with Water, in-
to which the Earth fell with a Violence equal to
the Fall of the highcft: Mountain that could be
fuppofed to fall into the lowefl Subterranean Deep 5
and in which cafe the Height, and Strength, and
Magnitude of their Building could only ferve to
make its Fall more violent, more certain, and more
terrible.
All thefe things, and many more, which Nature,
had they been capable of confulting it, would have
diftated to them, they muft bcperfe<9:ly ignorant ofj
otherwife they could never, with a Delibera-
tion and long confuking one another, as the Rela-
tion of the Story implies, have gone about fo ridi-
culous a piece of Work as that of Bahel^ than
which nothing attempted by the grofleft and dull-
eft Fancies on Earth was ever more abominably
foolifh and ignorant.
Were thele the Pofterity of the wife Antedilu-
vean Age! whofe Minds were infpircd from Hea-
ven, and whofe Underftandings were fo eminently
large and capacious, whofe Genius led them to the
inventing the moft ufeful Arts, and to exalt them
in queft of the nobleft parts of Science, (fuch as
Mufick in particular j) and to make the moft rcfin'd
Experiments, fuch as the melting, mixing, fepara-
ting, and refining of Metals j and which was ftill
as much as all the reft, the finding thofe Metals in
the Oar, as the Iron, the Copper, the Silver, and
the Gold, of which we find they had a compleat
Knowledge, and carried it on no doubt to the moft
ufeful Experiments? Thus JabaUnd Juhal for Ex-
ample, the Sons oi Lamech^ who feverally apply-
ing themfelves to ufeful Arts, became Inftruftors
of
of M A G I C K. II
of their Pofterity in Culture of the Earth, Huf-
bandry, breeding of Cattle, {^c. Others we find were
Proficients in Philofophy, and the ftudy of Nature -^
for the Do61:rine of Sounds is one of the niceft
Parts of philofophical Study, and we find them im-
mediately Mafters of Mufick, and inventing and
inftruding others in making the Inftruments of Mu-
fick; and particularly thofe Niceft and moft Dif-
ficult of all the reft, the Harp, and the Organ,
that is to fay Wind-Mufick, which is Vocal; and
Mufick by Fihration^ which we call Inftrumentalj
likewife Tuhal-Cain their Brother, who was the
firft Artificer, of whom we may fay that he was
a true natural Mechanick, and the firft and beft
Tinker in the World.
In the room of this capacious Underftanding,
and this inquiring and applying Temper in thofe
Ages, behold a ftupid Generation rifen up in Suc-
cefi^onj ftript as naked of the natural Glories of
their Anceftors, as the Earth was of its natural
Fruitfulnefs after the Curfe in Paradife-, and inftead
of applying themfelves to ufcful Arts, and to the
acquiring of Knowledge, grown as indolent as they
were ignorant, having, like Solomon's Fool, no de-
light in Underftanding.
Inftead of qualifying themfelves to inftruft their
Pofterity, we fee no marks of Wifdom left behind
them fit for Imitation; nothing that could recom-
mend them to their Children for any thing but a Race
of ,brutiih, unpolifh'd, unfinifh'd Creatures, that
neither undcrftood Heaven or Earth, themfelves, or
any thing about them ; that feem'd qualified for
ncithing but meerly, as the reft of the Brutal World
were, to propagate their Kind, and overfpread the
Earth.
Nor in their Multiplying their Species did they
feem to promife any thing but to people the
W^orld with a Race of Fools, as ignorant and for-
f did
IX A S r S T E M
did as their Antediluvean Progenitors had been out-
rageouily wicked > a Race that threatened to make
Heaven as iick of them for their Folly, as it was
of thofe that went before them for their Corrup-
tions and abominable Vices 5 and that might be as
likely to have brought a Deluge upon them for
their obftinate untractable Ignorance, as the other
had been for their Rebellion and Loofenefs, had
not God's Pr. mife not to deftroy the World any
more, been their Security.
Nor indeed were they lefs corrupt, their Capa^
cities confider^d^ than the old World, whofe flagrant
Crimes had involved them in a general Dc{lru61:ion;
and if they fell ihort in any thing, it was for
want of Wit, not for want of Wickednefs.
This appears in all their fubiequent Condu6t,
from the firft peopling of the World after Noahy
to that foolifh Bahel- Building- Age I fpeak of: la
the old World we found, that, at leaft for a time,
Men began to call on the Name of the Lord; and
the Patriarchs of that Age were famous for Piety,
of whom 'tis faid, as particularly of Enoch^ that he
walked with God', an emphatic fignificantExpreflion,
which our learned Commentators have fpenta great
deal of Time in expatiating upon and explain-
ing. The Scripture again exprefles this walking
with God to be an Ad of Faith, and quotes it,
Heh. xi. 'ver. f. as a glorious Example of fuch Faith
as was rewarded with an immediate Tranflation of
the Perfon into Heaven. He was not^ for GOD took
him 5 and from which the moft exquifitely and ac-
compliihtly whimfical Mr. Jfgill form'd his new
Syftem of going the neareft way (Home) to Hea-
*vm by the farthcft way about, a fiery Chariot in-
ftead of dying j as if the former were not a Change
as well as the latter^ and as if Heaven had not al-
ready made the befl Choice for us: But tho' he fuf-
fcr'd Martyrdom for his Scheme (having been ex-
peird
of M A G I C K. 13
peird the Parliament of two Kingdoms for it) vvc
do not find he has yet had the Benefit of his Pro-
jeft, fo we muft wait till he is pleafed to make the
Experiment.
But to return to the Antedlluveans : The old World,
I fay^ as wicked as they were, had fome fhadow of
Good in them, and for fome Years, nay fome hun-
dreds of Years, they maintain'd the Charader of
the Sons of God^ before they were debauched by
the Daughters of Men j that is to fay, before they
blended the Race with the corrupt Seed of Cainy
and mingled Blood with Idolaters. Where, by the
way, we have an accurate Defcription of the Times,
I mean in thofe early Days, of the Raccj 'tis
evident 'twas jufb then as 'tis now, the Ladies were
the Devils of the Age j the Beauties, the Toalls, the
fine Faces were the Baits 5 the Hell lay concealed
in the Smiles of the charming Sex, They were the
Magicians^ taking the Word in its prefent Accepta-
tion and its grofleft Senfe: There lay the Witch-
craft, and its Force was fo irrefiftible, that it drew
in even the Sons of God, juft, in a word, as ic
does now, and of which I ihall have Occafion to
fpeak again at large as we go on. — In the mean
time, I defcend with the Story to the next Gene-
ration.
The Antedlluveans might have fomething of Re-
ligion in them, however fatally mix'd with Crime >
but as for the new Good-for-nothing Race, we
hardly read of any thing that ever was to be found
among them that may be called valuable, from Noah
himfeif downward ; and even Noah himfelf, we all
know, fell into the Debaucheries of Wine, and ifyou
will believe Tradition, continued in it a hundred
Years. Now from him, and from his immediate
Race, Narur^^ feem'd prepared for the utmofl De-
generacy, for thev fell into all manner of Crimes,
nay into the worlt Crimes firfti for they did not
be-
,4 A S r S T E M
begin low and fin gradually, but immediately after
the Drunkennefs of Noah himfelf, his Pofteriry de-
generated into Idolatry^ or rather return'd to it, for
feme think, and that not without Probability e-
nough, that Noah's Sons were Idolaters before the
Flood, and were faved in the ^rk^ fuch^was the Will
of God^ mecrly for being the Pofterity or Progeny
of a righteous Father 5 if fo, then they only returned
to the Idolatry which they had been pra6tis'd in
before.
But he that as it willj 'tis certain that the Pofte-
rity of Noah fell immediately into Idolatry, and that
all his wife Dilates which he gave to his Chil-
dren, which for fo many Ages were preferved by
oral Tradu^ioH, and were called the Precepts of Noah
^
had no fufficient EfFeft upon them to prevent that
hated Sin of Idolatry, no not even while he was
alive.
It is worth obferving here indeed, were it not
too grave for your Reading, how t^tdiMzWy Noah by
the horrid Defedion of his own Morals in that One
A6t o^ Drunkennefs^ I fay how efFedlually he {hut
the Door againft the Force of all his Own future In-
ftruftions : He was till then indeed a Preacher of
Righteoufnefs, and had been fo to the Antediluvean
World for near fix hundred Years j but after that,
he might preach indeed if he would, but what Re-
gard would he obtain, when the debauch 'd Inftruftor
had expos'd himfelf by his Drunkennefs to the Ri-
dicule inftead of the Reverence of his Pofterity,
and when the drunken Monitor by his own Pra-
Gice had render'd his Inftru6bions fruitlefs and ridi-
culous ?
How juftly might they bid him hold his Tongue,
and go and reform his Life, before he pretended to
inftrud them ? bid him firft learn the Precepts he
taught, and ftiow them by his Example what it
was he would have them pradife? How might they
up*
of M A G 1 C K. ly
upbraid him with exhorting them to be fober,
while he went drunk to bed ? exliorting them to
Modeity and Virtue, while he appeared in the
moft fcandalous manner, lying drunk in his Tent,
and his Nakcdnefs expos'd to the Banter and im-
pious Jefl: of his Grandfon Ham?
How muft it cover his Face withBluflies, to find
he had difhonoured by his Example the Do6trine
of Sobriety which he had preached to his Children,
who were thereby brought to mock him, rather
than to liilen to him, and to make Ballads of him,
rather than copy his Precept for their Imitation?
But I fay this is a Subje6t too folemn for the
Age, and you will prcfcntly tell me I am going to
write a Comment upon the ninth Chapter of Ge^
nefis. So I leave it for you to confider of, and re-
turn to the Chronology of early Wickednefs in the
Poft-diluvean World.
Noah being thus difabled, by his own falling into
Crime, from inftrufting his Pofterity, what was the
Confequence? he liv'd to fee them run headlong
into that worfl: of all Crimes, Idolatry^ and the
Worfliip of GOD funk as it were out of the
World, even in his own time, and before his Eyes.
This is evident from Ahraham^ whom the Scripture
acknowledges to have been not an Idolater only,
but even bred up in Idolatry while he lived in Ms-
fopotamia > and 'tis certain Abraham was born above
fifty Years before Noah died ; So that Noah liv'd
to fee his Pofterity degenerated into Idolatry, not
all his Preaching or Pradice being able to pre-
vent it.
Having thus feen all the Wickednefs of the old
World revived in its new Inhabitants, without the
Wit and Capacities which they had before > and the
Race being thus entirely degenerated, we muft be-
gin all our hiftorical Account of them with taking
them juft as we find them, and that will bring us
diredly to the Subje£b I propofe. The
4 A S r S T E M
The Race being thus, as I have faid, ftript naked
of the Beauties of their Anceftors, whether in Mat-
ters of Senfe and Underftanding, or in Matters of
Piety and Religion, and running on into all man-
ner of foolifhand fimple as well as wicked ExcefTes,
it is not at all wonderful if when any particular Per-
fon appeared more than ordinary knowing, or but
a Lover of and Searcher after Knowledge and
Wifdom, fuch a Perfon was honoured in a more
than ordinary manner, was reverenced as an extra-
ordinary Man, exalted in the common Efteem
when alive, and perhaps placed among the Stars
after his Death > that he who fhined in their Efteem
when living, might be fuppofed to be made immor-
tal at his Death, and to be exalted to fhine in a
higher Orbit.
Hence it became a vulgar Error among the firft
Ages, but was riveted fo faft in the Minds of Men,
that nothing could perfwade them not to believe
it, [yiz) that the Stars were all the tranfparent
bright Souls of their wife Anceftors, who for their
Virtue and Wifdom were exalted by the immortal
Powers to a Station of Glory, and were made to
fhine in that manner for the farther enlightning
the World, to whom they had been fo beneficent
when they were here j and from hence it came at laft
that all their great Men, and efpecially their Kings,
were thus reverenced and exalted, whether they were
good Men or no.
It could not be, but that in Procefs of Time, as
the World grew populous, tho' they had none of
the rare Parts and exalted Underftandings of the
Antediluvean Patriarchs, yet there would be fome
Men of a more refined Genius, and of more
capacious Souls than others. Surely the World
would not be all Fools, or not all equally and alike
fo5 nor can I doubt but that while the grofs of the
People went about that hare-brain'd prepofterous
piece
of M A G I C K. 17
j^iede of Work which wc call Bahel^ there were
fome wifer Heads who tho' they might not care to
oppofe themfelves to the popular Humour, or per-
haps to their Refentment, and did not ridicule and
mock the Undertaking, yet looked on it with a
different View, and entertain'd wifer Notions of
Things, and Gonfequently (when by the Confu*
fions which afterwards happened among the Buil-
ders on Account of their Speech, they were oblig'd
to give over their Work) might take the Liberty
to expoftulate with them upon the Weaknefs of the
Defign, and convince them afterwards that it was
an unlikely impra6licable thing; Or perhaps thofe
Men had calmly argued that Part with them be-
fore, and had, as far as the times would bear it,
declared their Sentiments about it 5 thefe Men
would certainly obtain the Charadler of wife Men
upon this Occafion, and be valued by them as fuch
upon all fubfequent Events.
As upon the Confufion of Languages the fevcral
Families who undcrftood one anothers Speech kcpc
together, fo 'tis very probable they did not feparate
lingly, every one running his own way, but by
Families and Tribes, or by Nations, as their Speech
was or was not underftood by one another 5 and
this was dire<5bed by Providence no doubt, for it is
faid in theText, God fcatter'd them upon the Face,
or over the Face, of the whole Earth.
It is not unlikely but that when they left off
Building, and found they were not able to purfuc
the Defign, with that ImpofHbility they began
alfo to fee into the Folly and Abfurdity of the
Undertaking > and began more and more every day
to reflect upon their Stupidity in going about it ^
that being withal afliamed of the Work, they
were aihamed of the Place too, and wenc
every Man, or friheof Men at /f^y?, their own Way,
to get as far out of the fight of it as they could : I
C granc
A SYSTEM
grant indeed that this is but my Conjefture, but
I think 'tis a very jiift Conjedturc, and 'tis made on
Suppolition that all wife Men look back with Re-
gret upon thofc Adbions of their Lives which they
have been drawn into, and in which they have
reafon to fee thetnfelves miftaken. — In Ihort, as
no Man loves to fee himfelf a Fool, and if he has
done a foolifh thing, does not care to have the Re-
membrance of it always in his Viewj fo generally
i^ he cannot get the Objc6t removed and put out
of his fight, he will remove himfelf from it, if he
can.
Upon this foot I cannot doubt, but that all the
People quitted the Plain of Sbinaar as faft as they
could, and run away from the hated Monument of
their Shame > we would have done fo our felves,
^nd I capnot doubt, I fay, but they did fo too.
Suppofe then the People to be upon their March,
and going to the feveral Quarters of the World, whi-
tjT.e^' they were direded to fettle; and let that he
wh^re you and Sir Walter Raleigh pleafe; for that
learned Author following Scripture-light has really
i?iaifhaird them, and laid out their feveral Routs as
^xadily and authenticly as if he had been Com-
miflary- General, and had gone before to provide
them Quarters.
Wherever, I fay, thefe feveral Nations went, and
in what Country foever they fettled and fixed their
Abode, tho' the Government and Monarchy of each
Divifion was Patriarchal and Hereditary, yet wefhall
find upon feveral Occafions afterward, that they had
among them many particular Men famous for their
Wifdom and Knowledge, and for their Search into
the Secrets of Nature, whofe confummate Wifdoin
by degrees not only obtained for them a more th^
ordinary Reverence among the People; but, infliort,
brought the People to lubjeft thepfelves to their
Government, and m^ke feme of them Kings.
Thus
of M A G I C K. i^
Thus Cadmus^ a Phoenician born, becjjme King of
Thebes in Greece^ by having obtained the Fame of a
wife Man, and one who dedicated himfclf to the
common Good of Mankind 5 So Prometheus obtain'd
the Government of a Part o^ Armenia^ and Jtlas the
likeiny^r/V^5 and thus feveral others, by their Wis-
dom and earned Search after Knowledge, obtain'd
the Empire and Government of thofe Countries
where their Wifdom was fo confpicuous. But pray
take this with you as you go, that tho/e Days are
over^ that Wifdom crowns no Man Now, except it
be with the Rage and Mahce of Enemies, with Po-
verty and Infult.
Prohitas laudaiur £s? Alget,
Honefty fhall be prais'd and ftarv'd ; Wifdom and
Knowledge are Marks for the Men of Power to ihooc
at 5 to be High and Great, is to be Wife and Good.
He that is Rich is Wife^
And all Men learned Poverty defftfe.
But this is but an Excurfion, I come back re-
proved: The Magi were not always Kings or Em-
perorsj the Wife Men and the Southfayers^ the
Magicians and Aflrologers (who by the way were all
but onefortof People} were often times inmeanCir-"^
cumftances as to Money, even in thofe graver Daysj
they a£tedfor thepublick Good indeed, but it was in
Conjun£tion with iheir own Intereft too, they had
their Rewards for Southfaying and Divining 5
and when the King of Syria, asked his Servants to
go to Elijha the Prophet to enquire for him about
his Health, he bad them take a Prcfent in their
Hand for the Man of God.
I cannot indeed fay how high priz'd things went
in thofe Days, and whether Wifdom wa« iigt un-
C % der-
A SYSTEM
der-ratcd then, as it is nowj whether there waJ
due Encouragement given for the Search, or whe^ ,
ther Wit went threadbare and in Rags, as it does
fincej Authors are not agreed upon it indeed, and
it may be hard to bfing them to a Point: It is true,
later and more modern Philofophers learned to de-
fpife Money, and Solon preferred Wifdom and a
retired Life to the Wealth o^Croefus-y but in the
more early Times of the World, the Knowledge
of Nature and the Study of Wifdom as it wenC
then, feemed to be a communicative Good, which
therefore as they that reaped the Benefit of it ought
to pay for and did fo, fo their wife Men grew
(in time) mercenary and mean, as in other Places.
This leads me to the Times when the primitive
Wildom of thofe early Days beginning, as I faid,
to be more common, and that the Magi had com-
municated much of their Knowledge to the com-
mon People. Thofe then who ftill pretended to b^
fomething beyond the reft of the World, were
obliged to go higher in their Studies, and enquire
into Nature, view the Afpeft of the Heavens, cal-
culate the Motions of the Stars, and efpecially dwell
upon their Influences in human Affairs, which is
iince called Aftrology.
By this Study they obtained the Name of Souths
fayers and jlftrolcgers^ added to that of Magicians^
which they had before : and on the foot of thefe
Studies they interpreted Dreams, explain'd good
and bad Omens, foretold Events, and perhaps play'd
fome Leger-de-main Tricks too^ to impofe upon
the World, as their worthy Succeflbrs do to this
Day \ and in a word, 'tis likely they did all thofe
things then, which thefe People do now, of whom
we fay with more Freedom perhaps than Truth,
that they deal with the Devil.
Not that tbofe Fe pie were charged, at lead
not yet, with any criminal Conyerfation with the
old
of M A Q 1 C K. XI
old Gentleman •, nor, if I underlland how the Cafe
Hood with Satan at that time, had he any man-
ner of Occafion for them, but did his Bufinefs quite
another wayj for the Devil had Altars and Temples
of Jbis own, was another kind of a King in thofc
Days than he has appeared to be fince : T ii e n he
gave Audience in form of a Deity, and faw himfelf
worshipped like a God almoft throughout the whole
World: Here, under the Name o£ Baal-y there, Mo^
loch'y here in one manner, there in another : Nor
had the GOD of Heaven One Temple in the
World, when the Devil had a great many fcatter'd
here and there, almoft in every Nation. I aflurc
you, however modern Writers think fit to repre-
icnt him, he fcorn*d in thofe days to go about hke
a poor ihabby Out-at-heels Devil, as he has done
fince, and may perhaps do now. No, He appeared
in State, and as he ufurped divine Honours, fo he
made a Figure fuitable to his Ufurpation, and had
his Shrines and his Votaries, his Priefts and his
Places of Worfiiip, in whatever Shapes or Places he
pleas'd to be worfliipp'd in: Thus as Dagon he had
a Houfe of folemn Worfhip at JJJjdod, i Sam. v. 2.
and as Baalzehuh at Ekron, and the like.
Now as the Devil had thus the Government of
the whole World in his own Hand, and that he was
almoft in the very Letter of ic the God of the JVorld^
fo he had no need at that time to employ fecrec
Agents, and work by way of Familiars or private
Intelligence, as he does fince > nor, to do tlr" ho^
neft Men Juftice, had any of the Southfayers and
Magicians, and thofe which were at fir ft called their
wife Men, any Converfation with the Devil at all,
no, or with any of his Works, they carried on no
Bufinefs for him.
But they were Men of Thought, or if you pleafe.
Men of deeper thinking than the ordinary fore :
They ftudied the Sciences, and enquired into ufeful
C } things,
A SYSTEM
things,^ fearched the Works of Nature and Provi-
dence, ftudied the Meaning and End of things, the
Caufes and Events, and confequently weye able to
fee farther into the ordinary Courfc and Caufes
both of things about them, and things above them,
than other Men.
In the ftudy of Aftronomy, they foon found the
fecret Influences of the Stars upon the Surface of
the Earth, upon Plants and Animals, nay, upon
both Man and Bead : as for Example, How the
Growth and Virtues of earthly Bodies were guided
and govern'd by the heavenly, and how even the
Events of the greateft moment on Earth often-
times obey*d the Force of thofe heavenly Bodies 5
their Conjunctions, Oppofitions, near or remote
Pofitions, Revolutions and Appearances j and ac-
cordingly they were capable of making fuch pro-
bable Conjedures of things not yet come to pafs,
as were amazing and furprizing to the reft of the
World J and by which they took them, cither for
Men fiird with facred Knowledge, and that thofe
things were communicated to them immediately
from Heaven 5 or that, however they got it, they
had a prophetick Knowledge of v/hat ihould come
to pafs, and could foretel Events even before the
apparent Caufes were ordinarily known.
This gave the common People an extraordinary
Veneration for the Perfons of thofe Magicians and
ijuife Men^ as they had an awful Notion of their
exceeding Wifdom and Knowledge. Thus Nebu-
chadnezzar^ after he had exalted the Prophet Daniel
to be the chief of his wife Men^ floopt to him with
a kind of Reverence, and begins his Addrefs not
like that of a Tyrant, the Terror of the World, as
he at that time really was, but as One that had an^
Awe upon his Mind of the great Refpcd he ought
to fhow to a Perfon divinely infpir'd as Daniel was.
See the Text Dan, iv, p. O Bekefhazzar, Mafier
of
of MAGIC K. 13
of the Magicians, hecaufe I know th^t the Spirit of
the holy Gods is in thee^ See- — And fo in the
8ch Verfe of the fame Chapter. Jt lafi Daniel came
in before me^ whofe Name is Beltelliazzar, after the
Name of my Go d, and in whom is the Spirit of the
holy Gods.
Thefe were the Magicians of the firft Ages of
the World, and. fuch was the Opinion which the
People had of them in thofedaysj not that they were
Conjurers, or running Men^ or fuch fort of People
as we now call them; but were Men, who
at that time knew more than the ordinary rate of
Knowledge inftrudted others to knowj and were
endued from Heaven with extraordinary Degrees
of VVifdom above other Men. Nor was the Re-
fpe6t paid to them equal, but more or lefs in de-
gree, according to the particular Degrees of fa-
crcd Infpiration which they were fuppofed to have.
Thus in the Cafe of the Prophet Daniel (as above)
the King treats him not as a Magician only, nor as
the Chief of the Magicians only, but as a Man fiird
with higher degrees of Wifdom and Knowledge
than any, nay than all the reftof theM7^/V/^;2Jof the
Age put together, as appears Dan.iv. 18. Now
thouy O Beltefhazzar, declare the Interpretaft on thereof^
(that is of the Dream) for as much as all the wife
Men of my Kingdom are not able to make known
unto me the Interpretation, hut thou art ahle^ for
the Spirit of the holy Gods is in thee.
This is Hill further explain'd in the next Chap-
ter, and in the Tranfa6tions of the next Reign: I
fay it is farther and fully explain'd to my Purpofe,
{viz.) as to what was the People's Opinion of thefe
Magicians., as well as their King. The Story is very
•particular. It was in the Reign of Belfhazzar., the
Son and Succeflor, according to fome, of the Great
Nebuchadnezzar King of Babylon \ when the King
faw a Hand come out, and writing Words upon
C 4 the
H A SYSTEM
the Wall, (fee the Text) Dan. v. 7. "The King cryed
(iloud to bring in the Aftrologers, the Chaldeans, and
the Southfayeis to read the Writing. Why were thefc
caird, but ^s they were Men of Fame, for their
JL,earning in reading flrange Characters, Men of
Skill in Languages and Books, which in thofe
Days the common People knew little or no-
thing of.
Well, all the learned Men of the Kingdom were
accordingly call'd together, but none, of them could
^nfwer the End j no, notwithftanding all the great
Rewards promised them. Ver. 8. nen came in all
the King's wife Men^ that is to fay, the Flamfteads^
the Sir Jfaacs^ the Halleys^ the IVhifions^ &c. of
the Age, but they could not read the Writing, (Jc,
And what follows? 'Then was King Bchhazzar^rf^/-
2y troubled^ and his Countenance was chan^d in him.
J^or is that all, but the Text adds, and his Lords
^ere ajionied.
Ic feems they thought thofe wife Men knew e-
ycry thing, that they had been able to underftand
^11 the Languages in the World, and that there-
fore if they could not read it, it mull be fome^
thing fupernatural, fomcthing from above, or fome-
thing from below, which was worfej And in thofe
Cafes indeed they did not expc6t the wife Men
fhould read it, for they did not fuppofe thofe wife
jVlen correfponded with the Devil, or had an evil
Spirit. They thought indeed, if it depended upon
human Underltanding, they could do it, but as to
higher things than thofe they did not exped them 5
ib, the King and his Lords began to be the more
furpriz'd at it. But now fee the loth Verfe. The
Queen direfts them to enquire out Daniel^ and
fend for him, and tells them he would certainly read^
i:he Writing, and tell them the Meaning or inter-
pretation of it. See the Words at large.
of M A G I C K. 2j
Now the ^ieen^ hy reafon ef the words of the King
and his Lords, came to the banquet-boufe -y and the
^eenfpake and[aid^ O King, live for e^ver: let not
thy thoughts trouble thee, nor let thy countenance be
changed,
"there is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the fpirit
df the holy Gods, and in the days of thy father, light
and nnderjianding, and wifdom, like the wifdo??^
of the Gods, was found in him-, whom the King
Nebuchadnezzar thy Father, the King I fay, thy
Father, made Mafier of the Magicians, Aflrologersy
Chaldeansy and Soothfayers j
Forafmuch as an excellent fpirit, and knowledge^
and underftanding, interpreting of dreams, and fhew'
ing of hard fentences, and diffohing of doubts were
found in the fame Daniel, whom the King named Bel-
tefhazzar : now let Daniel be called, and he willfhew
the Interpretation.
After this Story no Man need enquire what the
World underilood by the Magicians and Aftrologers^
and wife Men of thofe Days 5 But 'tis plain they
were look'd upon not as dealers with the De*
vil, but as Men infpir'd froni Heaven, fill'd with
infpir'd Knowledge, Light and Underftanding, and
excellent Wifdom, that they could make Interpre-
tations, refolve Doubts, 13c> as ver. if, 16. of
the fame fth Chapter. And as fuch, the Princes and
Lords of the Country apply'd to them in all diffi-
cult and extraordinary Cafes.
Now 'tis true, we have only Examples of the
Kings and Princes making ufe of thefe People
in difficult Cafes, as Pharaoh, Nebuchadnezzar, Bel-
Jhazzar, But 'tis not to be doubted, that the Peo-
ple in general, of all Qualities and Conditions,
went to them to be refolv'd in their Doubts, and
to have Queltions anfwer'd them in difficult Cafes 5
|n fliort this was their general Employme?|t, and
%hty u^^dc a Trade of it.
A S r S T E M
On this Account we find in feveral ancient Wri-
tings, that the Southfayers were made ufe of to
interpret Dreams, and foretel things to comej to
reprefcnt good or bad Omens, and give their Opi-
nions upon the Appearances of any extraordinary
Phasnomena in Nature > Thus you have Julian the
Apoftate reproach'd with encouraging fuch Men,
and liftning to them, fome Ages after this, when
their Reputation was funk to a lower degree by
far, than it was at in former Times.
This being then the Cafe, we arc not to talk of
the Magick of thofe Ages, or of the People calPd
Magicians^ in the prefent vulgar Acceptation of the
Word > but they are to be undcrftood to be what
Sohn^ Plato^ Seneca^ Ariftotle^ or any of the bcft
and brighteft of the Philofophers of after-Ages
were known to be, namely Men of Learning > who
had apply'd themfelvcs to the fludy of Virtue, and
to the Knowledge of and Search into the moft hid-
den treafures of Nature 5 who underftood the Rea-
fons of things, the Caufes and Originals of the moft
retired and difficult Accidents in Nature, that
fearch'd into, and calculated all Aftronomical Diffi-
culties i the Motions and Revolutions of heavenly
Bodies •, and, as I faid before, their Influences on
things below 3 that fludied and found out the phy-
fical Virtues of Plants, Metals, Minerals, and in
a word every difficult thing, either in natural or
experimental Philofophy.
Thefe were the Magicians of thofe Days, and to
write a Syftem of Magick as it was then pradbis'd,
and is to this Day underftood to be the firft mean-
ing of it, would be to write a Syftem of natural
Philofophy; only with this fpecifick Difference,
namely, that witR the utmoft of their Search, the
higheft of their Reach^ and the greateft of their
Underftandings, they knew fo little of every thing,
or indeed of any thing, that the wifeft of their
wife
of M A G 1 C K. 27
wife Men, the moft accomplinied Magician or
Chaldean^ in all the Egyptian or Chaldean Courts,
eould not pretend to know what our prcfent Pu-
pils in Science come to the undcrftanding of in the
firft Ledures of Philofophy, which they go thro*
in a Courfc of Academick Study.
Their Conceptions of things were rough and rude 5
what they entertain'd was either rcceiv'd by the
Inftru£bion of others, as by oral Tradition from
the hke wife Men that went before them, or
from the dark Conjeftures of their own reafoning
and enquiring Difpofitions, join'd perhaps to fome
few, and thofe but very mean^ Experiments of their
own making, from Obfervation and Rcfle6bion.
Thefe firft Lights burnt very dim in their Un-
derftandings, and gave but little helps to them in
their Search after Knowledge 5 but ftill as the reft
of the World was infinitely darker, and more ig-
norant alfo than they arc now, fo this dim Light,
and thefe glimmerings of Knowledge, appcar'd to
them, (in proportion to the Light they had to
judge by) as bright and Ihining, as the greateft and
moft confummate Knowledge does now to us in
the Heads of a Boyle^ a Newton^ or the moft ex-
quifite and beft accemplifh'd Philofophcrs of the
Age.
All things in Nature arc great or little in their
Appearances, in Proportion to thofe proper Ob-
je6i:s which they are to be confider'd withy or
meafur'd by. The Earth it felf is coniidcr'd as a vaft
Globe of folid Subftances, form'd into one Body
by an infinitely powerful Hand j when on the one
hand it is meafur'd by any particular Bodies, either
Part of it felf, or of any other Body, which are
fmall, and as it may be faid inconfiderable in Bulk
compared to it : Whereas on the other hand, that
very Globe or vaft Body which we call this
Earthj is but as a Point, a Mote, or a grain of
Puft,
i8 A s r s r E M
Duft, when confider'd with and meafur'd by the
immenfe Bodies of the Comets, the Sun, the fix*d
Stars, or other thofe glorious Luminaries which
wc fee rang'd above us, and out of the reach even
almoft of our Conceptions.
Thus the Knowledge and Acquirement of the
Magicians and wife Men in the firft Ages of Time,
and of whom I have been now fpeaking, tho'
mean and trifling, fupcrficial, and of little Worth,
when compared with the accomplifli'd, and con-
fummatc Wifdom of the Moderns^ their experi-
mental Philofophy, their Knowledge inAftronomy,
their Improvement of Nature and Artj'yet it was
Great, and worthy of Admiration, when compar'd in
thofe Days, to what the reft of Mankind knew, and
look'd upon by, and compared with an ignorant Age
fuch as that was > and therefore the King tells Da-
niel^ that an Excellent Spirit of Wifdom "was found
in him, Dan. v. 14. And doubtlefs the People look'd
upon Daniel to be infpir'd with Wifdom and Know-
ledge from the holy Gods^ that is to fay from Hea-
ven, as indeed he was^ tho' not from their dumb
Idols, whom they called by the Name of the Holy
Gods,
In like manner, tho' perhaps not with fo ftrong
a Convi6^don, they had an Opinion of all thofe
they caird the Chaldeans and Southfayers^ Magici^
dans and Jftrokgers^ that they had fecret Commu-
nication with their Gods, and that they receiv'd
all the Knowledge with which they were infpir'd,
and in which they fo much excelTd the reft of
Mankind, from the feveral Deities which they wor-
iTiipp'd. I will not deny but that thofe Magician.^
might endeavour by many Subtikies and Arts, to
confirm and pieferve the delufion (for they knew
jt to be fo) in the Minds of the People 5 that they
might alfo work up the Veneration of the deluded
Multitiide to a due Height, and prcferve the Opi-
nioni
of M A G I C K. ^%f
liion both of their Perfons and of their Capacities j
and this perhaps will appear, when further enquired
into, to be the Foundation of all the wicked
things which followed, as I fhall demonflrate in its
Order.
It was really a Temptation to thofc wife Men^ as
they were called, to fee that the World had a vail
Opinion of them 5 while the World was blind,
and in the Infancy of their own Underftanding, a
little matter would impofe upon themj but in pro-
cefs of things the World grew wifcr, and the light
Nature began to receive Illuminations from the
light of Reafon, and then it behoved the wife Men
to fee that their Knowledge alfo encreafed in Pro-
portion ; for flill they were obliged to keep the
Reputation of their Underftandings, by paffing
from one Study to another, and afpiring ftill high-
er and higher in their feveral ClafTes of Improve-
ment.
Now this it was eafic to do, in all thofe early
Days of Knowledge. Nay, they had a thoufand
Years before them ftill, in which a moderate Com-
petence of acquired Knowledge would keep up
their Characters j what Courfe was taken afterwards
we fhall fee by and by.
To fum it up then in few Words j a Magician in
the firft Ages of the World was nothing more or
lefs than a Man of Learning 5 only vou muft take
this with you as you go, that by ihzWovd Learning
is ro be underftood not a Man of Letters and Books^
for the World knew little of either in the firft
Days of thofe Acquirements. Nay, we have rea-
fon to be afTur'd, that the Knowledge of Letters
was not arrived in the World, at the time when
Pharaoh fummon'd the wife Men, and the South-
fayers, and Magicians to interpret his Dream 5 and
as they had no Letters, they had no Books j and
therefore when 'cis faid that Mofei was learned in
aU
so A SYSTEM
all the Wifdom of the jEgyptians^ it muft be tin-
derftood of oral Learning, Wifdom convey'd to him
by Obfervation, or Inftru6bion, or Infpiration, as
afterwards he really received it from Heaven.
The Magicians, I fay, were Men of Learning,
that is to fay Men of Study, Men of Obfervation,
bufy in the fearch after Knowledge > and if we will
take Pains to enquire into it, we fhall find their
Obfervations chiefly refpedcd the Motions of the
heavenly Bodies, the Afpefts and Influences of the
Planets and fix*d Stars j and confidcring that they
were abfolutely without the help of Inftruments
and Glafles to make their Obfervaiions by, and
without Books, by which to communicate the
Knowledge of one Age, or of one Perfon,'to an-
other; I fay, conddcring thefe things were want-
ing, *tis a wonderful thing that they arriv'd to
fuch a Degree of agronomical Knowledge as thev
did.
Others ftudled the Knowledge of Nature, in the
Conilitution and Contexture of human Bodies; the
Originals, the Progrefs, and the caufes of Difeafes
and Diftempcrs, both in Men and Women; and
alfo the phyfical or medicinal Virtue of Drugs and
Plants, for Cure and Eafe of thofe Difeafes; the
qualities of the feveral Herbs and Trees, and Pro-
du61:ions of the Earth ; and as in thefe things they made
daily Difcoveries in Nature, which the World was
till then ignorant of, and by v/hich they performed
furprizing Cures, and delivered the diftrefled People
in divers Maladies, they were on that Account, and
defcrvedly too, had in great Eftcem, were reve-
renced, and even worfhip'd by the People.
I could give many Examples in Hiftory from the
mod ancient Times, when their Phyficians and A-
ftronomers were, after their Deceafe, rank'd among
their Gods, and doubtlefs were had in a profound
Veneration, while they were living.
In
of M A G I C k: 31
In a word, Science and ufcful Knowledge being
young in the World, thofe Men who gave them-
felves up to the firfl Searches after thofe things,
were thought worthy of the greatcft Honours,
and were had in the greatefl Elleem •, indeed they
very well deferv'd of Mankind, fincc they gave
fuch noble Tertimonies of their being devoted to
the Publick good. Thus Prometheus^ who is faid
to be chain'd down to Mount Caucafus^ with a
Vulture preying upon his Bowels, the Subftance
or Meaning of which was no more than this: That
he gave himfelf fo entirely up to the Study of A-
flronomy, and to fearch after the Knowledge of
the heavenly Motions, that the eager Dedre after
the Knowledge of them gnaw'd into his very
Vitals, confum'd his Natural Strength, and
proved fatal to his Health 5 and that this was upon
Mount Caucafus^ intimated only, that he chofc a
high Hill, or a Summit among thofe Moun-
tains, where he ufed to lye on his Back whole
Nights together, to make his Obfervations more
cxa6tly of the revolving Motions of the Stars, till
he contrafted Diftempers by the Colds and Damps
of the Air 3 fo that he was as it were chained down
to thofe Mountains, till the Difeafes he contra6led
cat out his very Bowels.
This is that Prometheus^ who for his exquifitc
Knowledge, is feign'd by the Poets to have firft
form'd Man, that is to fay, form'd the Model of a
Man by the help of Water and Earth; and then
dole Fire from the Sun to animate the Model, and
to give him Life and Motion.
The Meaning of which is no more than this,
that by his Wifdom he inftruded and formed the
Minds of Men in true Notions and right Know-
Icge of the moft fublime Objeds.
Prome-
3» A S Y S T E M
Prometheus firft^ as ancient Authors fay
^
Firfi made the Model of a Man in Clay j
Formed all the beauteous Parts^ and when he*d done
Stole 'vital Heat from the prolific Sun,
And here, by the way, the firfi: Atheifi:s, the E-
pkureans and others, who ihew'd their mighty
Willingnefs to deny a Fiift Caufe, a Being Prior^
and therefore Superior^ to all Beings, would make
Man to be the Author of his own Form and Life j
and that Prometheus having thus form'd the Mo-
del, and by borrowing Fire from the Sun, given it
Life, the new-form'd Creatures had ever fince
communicated that Life by Generation. But this
empty Notion ftands confuted moft effedualiy, by
only joyning the following four Lines to thofe
above*
But not an Author tells us^ to this Day^
Who made Prometheus ^r/?, and who the Clayy
Who gave the Great Prolific to the Sun,
And where the firfi ProduUive Power begun.
But to leave Moralizing, which my merry Rea-
ders feem to have an Averfion to, I go on with my
Story.
The learned Sir Walter Raleigh fays, they are
greatly miftaken who think that the Thing as
well as the Word Magick is derived from Simon Magus.
He adds, that Simon's Name was not Magus^ a Ma-
gician, but Goes^ a Perfon familiar with evil Spirits^
and that he only ufurp'd the Title of Simon the
Magician^ bcczuk the Title ofaM.j?^/a'^;^ was honou-
rable and good 5 and my Opinion is thus ftrengthen'd
by his Authority, viz! that there is a manifefl: dif-*
fcrence between Magtcky which is Wii'dom and
fuper«
7
of M A G 1 C K. 33
fupernatural Knowledge, and the Witchery and Con-
juring by which we now underftand the Word, and
ufc it accordingly.
I join with this Expofition of the Word Magick^
and fhall therefore carefully diftinguifli as I go a-
long betwixt the feveral differing Pcrfons known
in Hiftory for Magiy Magicians^ and Profeflbrs or
Pra;5tifers of Magick 5 and thofe Magicians by which
\ve are to underftand Sorcerers, and Enchanters,
and Dealers with the Devil, of whom neverthelefs
I fhall have occafion frequently to fpeak in this
Work 5 becaufcj though I fhall let you know that;
the Magicians were not all Sorcerers and Devil-
Dealers, yet I muft alfo let you know too, that I
am to point the main of this Difcourfe to fuch as
arc fo.
Nor is this previous determining the Point any
thing lefs than necefTary at this time, with rcfpe£fc
to the Variety of worthy Gentlemen, our prefent
Contemporaries in fafhionable Wifdom 5 who, how-
ever willing they are to be taken for Magicians^
even in the very worfl Senfe of the Word, rather
than not to pafs for Conjurers^ muft be vindicated
even againft their Wills, if it be only upon the
fingle Confideration of Incapacity j fince as none
of the Magi of the World were famed for want-
ing Brains, fo the Devil having no occafion for
Fools in the natural Senfe, will always difown
then^ in fpite of the ftrongeft Pretences they make
to his Service.
In juflice therefore to thofe Wou'd-he- witches^ I
mull clear the way as I go, and openly diilioguifh
between Magicians^ underftanding them as wife and
learned Menj or Magicians^ underftanding them as
Black- Arc Men •, and Fools, that are only not Sor-*
cerers becaufe the Devil does not thmk it worth
his while to tmploy them 5 and in fhort, that they
are incapable of being as wicked as they would be»
D The
34 A s r s r E M
ThcWoxd Magus^ from whence the Words Af^^/V/^
and Magician are derived, is a Perjian or perhaps
Chaldean Term, ufed originally to iignifv a Student
in Divinity, a Man convcrfant in divme Studies j
and Plato fays the Art of Magick is nothing but
the Knowledge of the Worfhip of the Gods, and
the Per/tans called their Gods ixdya? 5 which Ex-
pofition of the Word is agreeable to that o^ Mat.Vu
z. there came wife Men of the Eafl^ who having
feen the Star of him that was born King of the
Jeivs^ came fo far to worfoip him.
Thefe wife Men the Greeks afterwards called Phi-
lofophcrs, that is, Lovers of Wifdomj and the fame
is underftood in the Indian Language by BracbmanSy
and now Bramines j by the Babylonians^ Chaldeans >
by the Hebrews^ Seers 5 and among the Perfians^
Magicians,
It is true, as King James\.{'x^% in his Book of Z)^-
monologiej that under the name of Magick all other
unlawful Arts are comprehended > but that is only
as wc Moderns underftand it, not that it was un-
derftood fo by the Ancients > and even in that the
King diftinguifties between Magick in its word
Senfe, and the Arts or Practices of Witchcraft and
Sorcery j which, with his Majefty's Leave, I think
a necdlefs Diftindion: Nor fliall I be fo niccj but
all thofe Dealings which we call Necromancy^ Sor^
cery^ Witchcraft^ and all kinds of diabolical doings,
fhall pafs with me for Magick and the ^ack*
jirt^ and in this Senfe I fhall afterwards ufe the
Word.
The wife Men of Babylon are diftinguifli'd in the
Prophecy of Daniel^ into four ClafTes j the Magi-
cians, that is, the wife Men, in the Senfe as above,
I mean Philofophers j the Jftrokgers^ which are
underftood the fame with our Aftronomers, and
with them Southfayers ; the third fort are the Sorce^
rerSyVfho were called Malefici or Workers of Evil or
Mifchief,
of M A G 1 C K. 3 J
Mifchief, as fome call them 5 thefe arc the kind I
am to treat of, who are Workers of Evil by the
Afliftance of an evil Spirit \ and the lafl are called
ChaldeansJ
by which are underilood Foretellers of
thmgs to come, who underfland their hidden and
fecret Caufes.
This Expofition brings us down to the Cafe in
hand, where by the Word or Term of Magick is
underftood the two laft forts, who working Evil
of fe^'C^al kinds, do it alfo by the Afliftance of an
evil Spirit 5 that is in EngUJJj^ by the Help of the
Dcvii, by Inchantment, Conjurations, and corrupt
Methods.
T; e Praftices of thefe People were many ways
Diabolical, even in thofe days j and if we may cre-
dit King James's Account of them, they were ra-
ther worfe in thofe laicer Ages of the World than
in fonr er times s but of thac ia its Place.
Philojud^us carries it further than any ofthe mod
annent Wfiters uid Sages, and fays that by this kind
of Magick^ that is by Jftrologj^ and Obfqrvation of
the heavenly Bodies, their Motions, and Revolutions
,
Ahraham^ who was certainly a very great Magician^
arrived to ihe Knowledge of the tpieGoD> even be-
fore became out from Ur of theChalaees', that is to
fay, he gathered from the wife Government, the won-
derful Order and Motion, and the immoveable De-
I
Greesi^ and Revolutions of the heavenly Bodies,
! that there mud be an infinite, wile, and intelli-
gent Being, who, as he was the firil Caule o^ their
Beings, fo he was likewife the great Director of
their Motions, and by his Appoint'nent every thing
in the whole Syllem of their Operations was guid-
ed and appointed : In fhort, thar Abraham icarn'd
to know the Creator, by the Contemplation of
*
the Creature And doubtlefs as this fludy of Nature
din 6lly leads us to the great Author of Nature, ^o
Abraham by his fincere Application to the firfl,
D h and
^6 A S r S T E M
and his fincerc Defire to be led into the Number of
the laftj God, who knew thole Defires of his Heart
to be fincere, and aiming at a right end, was plea-
fed to make a more clear Difcovery of himfelf to
him by Vifion and Revelation j teaching him more
than he could ever have obtained by all the Study
and Application imaginable.
It is not doubted however that Abraham was the
firft teacher of Aflronomy and of Arithmetick in
the World, and perhaps of the feveral Branches of
the Mathematicks> The Ancients affirm, that
he taught the Phoenicians^ that is to fay the Cana-
anites among whom he liv'd, and the Egyptians alfo,
all the Knowledge they had, whether Philofophi-
.cal or Divine.
Thus then, whatever Notions we have now en-
tertained of Magick as Diabolical, yet certainly, as
our Saviour fays in another Cafe, in the beginning it
was not fo. In the firft Ages of the World, the Know-
ledge of Magick was the Wifdom of Nature j and
nothing but Ignorance brought Men to proftitute
themfelves to the Devil for the encreafe of their
Underftandings.
And this indeed is the way by which Magick^
and the Knowledge of the moft excellent things, has
been abus'd in the World} when Men feeking be-
yond themfelves for Knowledge, and ignorant of
the way to increafe true Knowledge, have been
impos'd upon to make ufe of wicked and diabo-
lical Methods to obtain it; the Devil not only
readily concurring to affift them, but openly ading
with them by Concert, to encourage the Dc-
lufion.
Hence the weakeft and moft impotent of all
Capacities, meer Fools excepted, have been found
fufficient to make Tools for the Devil j who hard-
ening them for his own Work, trains them up to
his Hand, with fuch an unwearied Diligence, that
nothing
of M A G 1 C K, 17
nothing can prevent their improving in his Ser-
vice.
Thus while Magick is the Wifdom of Nature,
and the Magicians of thofe Ages were the wifefl
and beft of Menj the Magicians of our times, and
of this new kind, improve from nothing, begin
with the vileft of Ignorance, and proceed to the
vilell of Wickednefs, till they come to be the mod
Diabolical Creatures in the World.
Magick being therefore nothing in thofe Times,
but, as 1 have faid, a degree of ufeful Knowledge,
and the Magicians being a Race of honcft ftudious
Men, fcarching after Wifdom, and bleft with greater
Shares of it, than the ordinary Race of Men were
arriv'd to> we muft look farther, and come
down lower into Time, for the prcfent vulgar Ac-
ceptation of the Word : In which Inquiry, it
will not be fufficienc to jump at once from the
beginning of things to the prefent times, and from
what the Magicians were in Egypt and Chaldea^ to
what they are now in a Chrillian Age: But we
muft a little enquire into the Gradations of the
Change, and fee by what feveral Progreffions of
Art the ufeful Magicians of thofe Ages have come
on, from meer Philofophy, to all the Extraordi-
naries of Myftery, Cunning, Trick, Cheat, Star-
gazing, Fortune-telling, Conjuring, Witchcraft,
and the Devil > and if this be not an Enquiry,
both profitable and diverting, I muft be miftaken
in my Subject, or in my Readers. Let us enter
into it gradually, and with Cautiqn, left we raifc
jhe Devil, before we come at him.
CHAP.
38 A S T S r E M
CHAP. n.
How Wtfdom and Learning advanced Men in
the Fir
ft Ages to Royalty and Government^
and How Marty of the Magicians were made
Kings on that Account ; as Zoroalter, Cad-
mus, and many others.
IT was not many Ages that the World conti-
nued in a ftate of Dullnefs, equal to that at the
firft fcattering the Nations. We do not find them
building any more Babels^ or entertaining them-
felves with fuch grofs Notions any more.
As they travelPd abroad they learned Experience j
they faw farther into Nature, and into the Reafon
of Things : inftead of building Ladders and Babels
to reach up to Heaven, and keep them from
drowning, they foon learnt to build Cities to keep
out their Enemies, and Ships to fail upon the
Water > they baffled the Fears of another Deluge
not by their Faith, that God would not drown the
World again, fo much as by the belief of this
Whymfy, that feeing they could fwim in Ships and
Boats, he could not do it 5 or that knowing they
could live upon the Water, they might feem not
to care whether he did or no.
In this travelling Circumftancc they grew in
Knowledge, as I fay, and at leafi fome of them
being of a brighter Genius than others, advanced
beyond their Neighbours in Wifdom and Under-
Handing both fpeculative and pradical j and thefe,
as they gain'd every Day- more Knowledge, even by
knowing, fo that Knowledge gain'd them infinite
Applaufe and Efteem among the People.
^
Hence every afpiring Genius among them get-
ting the ftart of the reft, either in real or affected
Knowledge of things, and thereby gaining Ad-
mirers and Dependents, took little differing Routs
in
4 M A G 1 C K. if
in their Wanderings j and wherever they thought
fit to plant and fettle, they built Houfes, calPd it
a City, and the Leader made himfelf be caird their
particular King.
This petty Royalty, as it was rais'd upon the
foot of Chance, rather than Blood, and upon the
mean Circumftance of a bold afpiring Head, which
a fmall ihare of Brains above its Neighbours gave
a Title to, fo it feem'd to fubfill on the foot of the
fame Chance 5 thofe Kings being as eafily, and as
often depos'd, as they were either over-power'd
by their Neighbours, or as any Decay and Dei^G^t
of the bright Part that rais'd them, caus'd them to
fink in the Opinion of their Subjeds, and gave the
King of the next City a better Place in their Favour,
. Yet this Diminutive Rank of Soveraignty re-
main'd many Ages in the Worlds and we find, not
only in Abraham's Time, when the five Cities of
the Lake or Valle)', where Sodom flood, had five
Kings over rhemj and afterwards in 7^^o^'s time, the
City of Sichem had a King over it 5 but even at the
coming of the Ifradites into Canaan^ almoft every^
City had its Kingj and we have a great deal of
ropm to judge, that thefe Kings did not derive
from a patriarchal Succe{?ion, for then there would
have been many thoufands of Kings more than there
were 5 but from the exalted Merit of the LTndcr-
itandings and Genius of fuch and fuch a Perlon,
whom the People thought fit to admire and follow,
and confequently fubjea themiclves to : and we have
abundance of Examples in Hiftory to prove, that
this was the pradice of thofe firil Ages. But this is
a dry Study, and the Search after their Names wj'jtd
be as needlefs, as the Lill, when obtain'd, would be
tedious to read J fo I leave it, and go on.
The reafon of my naming this Parr, is not to
(how the Veneration the moft early Ages of the
World had iorWifdom and Virtue > ^o\'^ God knows^
thefe Magi^ tho' they had the Merit oF fome
D 4 Knowledge
A SYSTEM
Knowledge above the reft, yet we do not find
they had a much greater Share of Virtue than o-
thcr People: But even as we find it now, the moft
knowing Men arc not the beft Menj even fo it
was then, every wife Man, much lefs every great
Man, was not a good Man: and as in our Age it
may be fear'd, we have more Clergy than Chri-
lliansj fo there were in thofe Days more Sages
than Saints : till at lalt their wife Men turn'd
whimfical, their Kings Madmen, their Southfayers
meer Conjurers, and their Magicians Devils : Of all
which 1 fhall give a farther Account prefently.
I'll fuppofe now, that the Magicians of thofe
Ages were, as I have defcrib'd them in the Chapter
before, nothing but Men fam'd for extraordinary
Knowledges meer Aftrologers , Philofophers,
Men of Study, and the like. You will next fee
how thofe Men frequently rais'd their Fortunes by
their Wifdom, or rather by the Opinion which
the ignorant World had of their Wifdom and Ca-
pacities.
ZoYoafter was a famous Magician^ in the Senlc
which I have already given of the word. Hiftory
tells us, he was a great Aftrologer, and foretold
things by his Art, which were to comej that by
his wonderful Predi6i:ions, he obtained fach a Vene-
ration among the People, that the Baclrians ador'd
him as a Man fent down from the Gods, or if you like
it as well in Scripture Terms, as a Man of GOD-,
and by this mighty Opinion which they had of
him, he obtained the Empire o^ the Baclrians. This
muft be at the time when Ninus was Monarch
of ^Jfyria-y for he was afterwards conquer'd, dif-
po(refs*d of his Dominions, and flain by Semiramisj
that warlike Widow Queen of AJfyria,
They report that he foretold he fhould be flain
by Lightning, or by the Fire of Heaven > and that
he told the JJJyrians^ that if they could find his
Aihes, they fhould carefully preferve them, for
that
of M A G I C K. 41
that their Empire fhould continue no longer thaa
while his Afhes fliould remain in Being j that after-
ward it fell out accordingly, that he was kilPd by
Lightning, and that the jiffyrians did fo prefervc
his Afhes, but that they were afterwards taken from
them by the Perjians^ who overthrew their Empire.
N. B. All this is fumm'd up thus in fadj That
Zoroafier left behind him wholfomc Rules of
Virtue and good Government, which as long
as the AJfyrians kept in Memory, and wor-
thily followed, they were profperous, as he
foretold them they would be 5 but when af-
terwards they degenerated into Vice, and
ceafed to obey the Rules which he had fee
them, they fell into Divifions and Fa6bions,
Civil Wars and Devaftations, which at length
ended in the Ruin of their Empire.
Cadmus^ mention'd before, was a Phoenician^ but
went from his own Country and fettled in Greece^
where, as they fay, he built the City of 'ThebeSj
and was made King of it, in confequence of the
Performance, and in Veneration of his Learning,
having brought lixteen Letters of the Greek Alpha-
bet among ihemj not that he invented thofe Let-
ters, tho' he has the Fame of it to this Day : the
Letters were thefe 5 ^, /3, 7, c/^, s, ;, r), x, X, v, 0, tt,
^, <T, T, u} the other four 0, f, 9, ;^, they tell us
were afterwards fupply'd by Palamcdes during the
Siege of "Troy.
But the Moral of the Story is this, that Cadmus
came from Phoenicia into Greece^ where by his
Learning he inllru6ted the People, civiliz'd and
polifh'd their Manners, and taught them the
Knowldge of Letters 5 direded them to build
Houfes, and inhabit together in Towns and Vil-
lages, which they then called Citicsj and, in a
word, introduc'd among them Difcipline and good
Govern-
A s r s r E M
Government: in Recompence for which they
made him cheir King, and call'd their firll Town
^hebeSn in •{onour of Cadmus^ who was originally
of the Gj' at Egyptian Thebes^ a City much more
ancient than the Nation of the Grecians,
Jthj (aifo mention'd before) was an African^
confpicuous for his Excellence in all human Wif-
dom and Knowledge j by this he was raifed to fuch
a height in the Affe^ion of the People, that they
made him King of Mauritania in the Northern
Part of Afric He was one of the molt learned
Magicians of the Time, and by his Knowledge in
the Motions of the Stars, and his excellent Judg-
ment in the good Government of Nations, he is
feign'd by the ncjents to carry the World upon
hisShouldersi that is to fay, his Precepts of Govern-
menr f jpported the Nations, and prefcrv'd Order
and DifcipHne in the World 5 and for this he was,
as he well defer- 'd, chofen by the People of Afric
to be their King.
I have done with my Examples of wife Men bcr
ing made Kings, efpecially being made fo for their
Wifdom too J and indeed to what purpofe {hould
I go on with the Account? 'tis not pretended the
Example fhould move the World in this Age, or
in the next : the World at prefent has no great
occafion for more wife Kings than they have > and
befides, as there is a right wife Generation nfing
up to fupply the Place of Power, as fail as Nature
wears off the Incumbents, and we fee no Danger of
wanting a fuitable Succeflion > fo I leave that part
of the Subjeft, and fliall talk of another Clafs.
The Magicians or wife Men being, as I have thus
defcrib'd, Men of Worth, and juftly valued in the
World, let us fee how long they held it, and how
they loft that Chara6ter.
The firft ftcp which I meet with, which lefTcns
their Figure in my Account, was when the Magi
or
of M A G I C K. 4j
or mfe Men were called in to fupport the Govern-
ment of the Per/tan Empire : And here they fhew'd
indeed, that Wifdom is not the only Qualification of
a Prince 5 that there is another thing requifire, which
tho' it is but trifling indeed among the Modern?,
was an EfTcntial among the Ancients, who found,
that to make a good Governor, it v>^as requifite,
that he fhould not only be a Wife Man, but an
Honeft Man 3 and in defeft of this Qualification^
the Perfians cut the Throats of ail the Magi^ to
whom they had committed the Government of
the Country j for tho' they were all Philofophei*s,
and wife Men, yet, as Fame hands it down to us,
they did not find one honed Man among them.
Thefe Magi are called by fome Prlefts, by
others Philofophers, by others i\ftrologcrs> it is
certain they foretold things to come, or at leaft
made the People believe foj as in the Cafe of the
Queen of Perfia^ Mother of King Sapores^ The
Psrftans it fecms were in great Perplexity for wane
of a King, (there were no Pretenders at that time to
put in their Claim) a thing which very feldom
happens in our times: The Nobility being aflem-
bled, in order to confider of a Nomination, the
Magi fent them word that they fhould not pro-
ceed, for that the Queen Dowager was with Child,
and would bring forth a Prince, who ftould be a
mighty King, and do great things for the Honour
of his Country.
Upon this their Confultations broke ofi\, and with
grear Joy they fent for the Queen, and laying the
Cro vn upon her Belly, they folemnly crown'd the
Embrio, gave it the Title of King, and falutcd it
King by the Name of Sap07'^ or Sapores'y all which
came to pafs: And yet I may fay all this might
come to pais* andnogre^.t ma'tcruwing ro the Pro-
phetic KiVi'dedgeot che Magi; for the Queen, loth
to have a King chofcn tqofoon, before ihc knew how
ic
44 A S r S T E M
it was with her, might venture to fay {he was with
Child 5 or at leaft get the Pricfts, the Magi^
to fay fo for her, and leave the reft all to Fatej for
if it had not prov'd fo, no body was injur'd, and
it would only have been faid that the Magi were
xniftaken.
But we are, if you pleafe, to fuppofc, that as I
faid, this did not laft long 5 the low-priz'd Learn-
ing of the Magicians anfwer'd very well, while the
World was ignorant in Proportion j but as the
World encreafcd in People, and as Years went
over their Heads, Knowledge had its Gradations
too, and tho' it muft be confefs'd it was at a very flow
Rate, yet fome advances they did make 3 and as
Princes feverally were lovers of Learning, fo they
encouraged Men of Learning too, and their Num-
bers cncereas'd, as well as their Knowledge.
As the common People became more knowing
and intelligent, fo it behov'd the Magicians to advance
their Studies, and feek farther into the more fub-
lime Parts oF Learning, to prefervc the Diftancc
they ftood in, from the lower Clafs of their Coun-
trymen, and to maintain the R'efped and Venera-
tion which as I faid the People had for themj if
they had not done this, they had foon been upon
fl Level with the reft of Mankind} the Rabble
had been their Equals in Wifdom, and they had
loft themfelves in the fuperior Station of Magici*
ans^ which they enjoy'd before.
This put them prefently upon fearching farther
and farther into the Arcana of Nature, purfuing
the higheft and moft elevated Studies, with the
utmoft Diligence and Application j advancing
from one thing to another, ftill to keep up the
Figure and Charader of 'wife Men which they had
before 5 that is to fay, being ftill as many degrees
above the common fort, however the common fort
might be improv'd in Knowledge, as they were be-
fore. No?
cf M A G I C K.
4j
Nor was this difficult to doj for as Knowledge
was then, and even is ftill, an unexhaufted Mine and
Score-houfe of unvaluable Treafure, and which ftill
the deeper ;it is dug into, difcovers more and more
Riches, and an infinite variety of Rarities and cu-
rious things, as well natural as artificial j fo the
farther thefe Men of Application fearch'd into the
Arcana, or concealed Treafures of Wifdom j and
the farther and greater Experiments they made, the
more they found the Search anfwer their utmoft
Ambition 5 the more they knew, the more they
difcover'd yet to know> and all their Enquiries
made good the modern Diftich made upon a like
Subje6b.
Whafs yet difco'ver\l^ only ferves to Jhow
How little's known^ to ivhat there's left to know.
This was not only an Encouragement to the
wife Men of the Ages we fpeak of, to go on in their
Studies, and in their making new Difcovcries in
the hidden and moft retir'd parts of Nature j but
it fhew'd that they were ftill able to maintain the
Charafters they bore in the World, and to make good
the Diftin6lion which was formely made between
them and the common People 5 fo that they ftill
pafs'd for Magicians^ wife Men^ and Aftrologers, as
they really at laft were 5 and for Men qualify'd to in-
ftru£b the ignorant World in a fuperior Knowledge.
Take them then in this new Situation, that is to
f^iy, pufhing on in the commendable fearch after
Wifdom and Knowledge, till, as Solomom fays, they
dug for it as for hid 'Treafures-, yet the common
People followed them clofe at their Heels; the Na-
tions grew wifer and wifer, as well as the Magi%
till in ihort Art began to fail, or rather the Num-
bers of the Men of Art began to encreafej that fo
wife Men were not fuch Rariues, or fo high-priz'd
4 as
A s r S T t M
as tliey had been, and grew daily lefs and lefs iti
the ordinary Rate and Elteem of the World.
Thus in iliort, the *wife Men^ and the improving
World, feem'd hke Men running a Race, in the
purfuit after Knowledge 5 the Magi or Southfaycrs,-
or what you pleafe to call them, had gotten the
Start, and were a great way a- head, a great way
before the reft, but the People follow'd and ad-
vanc'd at a great Rate.
And this brings me down to the Point.
The Men of Wit and Learning being hard put
to it in their new Difcoveries, had but three ways
to preferve the Dignity of their FrofefHon, and
keep up their Credit as wife Mine^ that is as Fhilo-
fophcrs, Magi^ and the like.
1
.
The firft was to purfue vigoroufly the Study
of Philofophy, that is to fay of Nature, the feveral
Branches of Aftronomy^ Aflrology^ Geometry^ and the
like.
2. The fecond was to puiTi into the Study of Artj
that is to fay Experimental Philofophy.
9. The laft was the Study of Reafon {viz?} Natu-
ral Homage, and the Worftiip of the Gods.
In the firft of thefe they went on with great
Succefsj nor were they to be follow'd by the com-
mon People, whofe Underftandings could never
come up to any uncommon degrees of Science, or
indeed to make any Pretcnfions to it 5 and therefore
thofe that apply'd to this Study, kept up their
Credit longer than any of the reft.
Thus the three wife Men of the Eaft are faid to
come into Judaa from a far Country, by obferving
an unufual and furprizing Phenomenon, (wzja Star
at Noon-day, moving in a particular Orbit, and
pointing to them in a very particular Manner, by
which they were as it feems direded to follow it,
in order to make an extraordinary Difcovery of
fomc great Birth, and of fome wonderful Prince,
whom
of M A G I C K. 47
whom therefore they ought to come and pay Ho-
mage to. Some Authors tell us, thefe three w/fe Men^
or Magi^ were three of the Pofterity of ^h ''h'lmy
by Keturah hi^ !aft Wifc^ that they dwelt in Ara^
bia Felix^ and that chey had it revealed co them,
that rhey fliould fee this Siar, and chat they fhould
be gu'aed by it to fee the Great MeJ/iah^ who was
to come into the World to unite th'* Pollerity of
Abraham^ and to z\y.ikj)^ them in one Kingdom,
which ihould rule over the whole World. But t
take this as it is, viz, a Chimney-corner Tale, fit
for a Legend, and not capable of any manner of
Improvement.
But thus far 'tfs to my Purpofe, namely, that the
Credit of the "wife Men of the Eaft was not yec
quite funk in the World j that they maintain'd a
Correfpondence with the Scars j that they por'd
upon the heavenly Motions, and knew more of that
kind than all that ever went before them.
As the Aftronomers, and Star-gazing Magi kept
up the Dignity of their Characters, and out-did all
the reft of Mankind in thofe Ages > fo the fecond
fort too apply'd themfelves co the Study of
lower Life, obferving the Mechanifm of Nature,
and introducing the helps of Art, even to perform
things furpnfing. Among thefe, fome ftudied the
Microcofm of human Bodies, and fcarcht both
Diftcmper and Medicin 5 and thefe (that is to fay,
the Phyficians, and Naturalifts,) obiain'd a noble
Alcendant in the Efteem of the Vulgar, being able
by the Knowledge of Drugs and Plants, and their
Vertues, to apply proper Remedies in Cafes of the
greateft Diftrefs and Diiafter j and this indeed could
not but obtain for them a fix'd and large Efteem
in the Minds of the People, whom on fo many Oc-
cafions they rcliev'd. Thus the firft fearch'd into
the Curiofiues of Nature, the fecond into the Arc
of Phyfick.
Buc
48 A S T S T E M
But the third were a very particular kind indeed?
and thcfe apply'd themfelves to the Arcana of things
Divim-y and at this Door came in all the wicked
things, which have fince, with fo much Juftice too^
given a black ChaFa6ter to the very Name of a
Magician 'y for under the flicker of Religion, the
worltand moft Diabolical things were pradtis'dj and
in a few Ages more, we find that all the Magi"
cians were Priefts in Mgypt^ or according to fome,
all the Priefts were Magicians., Some have ofFcr'd at
drawing a Paralel from this to our times, and in
fome Senfe it may be true, but in others doubtful.
For if by Magicians we are to underftand Philofo-
phcrs, and wife Men, I fliall never be brought to
acknowledge that all our Priefts are Magicians^ for
1 abhor all Slander. But to go back to the Cafe
as it is before me, certain it is, that the imfe Men
finding, as above, that they muft take new Mea-
fures, that they muft have Recourfe to fome new
Art, if they would keep up the Reputation of their
Wifdom J I fay, finding it thus, they apply'd them-
felves to three forts of Study.
The firft was to innocent Art, fecret and cun->
ning Contrivances to delude the Sight-, this we
call Juggling, Legerdemain, or philofophical Delu-
fion, fuch as I ihall mention in its Place j but this
would go but a little way.
A fecond fort, as above, apply'd to religious Frauds,
and fet up for Coeleftial Dclufions, mixing their
Magical Performances with religious Rites ^ fo de-
ceiving the People with the Opinion of San61:ity,
and with the Belief that they had the Affiftance of
the Gods.
In Nomine Domini incipit omne malum.
Thefe laftftudied indeed Divinity, fuch as it was>
and how unhappily did they purfuc the Myfteries
they
of M A G I C K. 49
they profefs'd ! for firft we find they invoked the
Gods, and not finding that would do, they chang'd
Hands and invoked the Devil.
FleUere ft ne^ueo fuperos^ Acheronta movebo.
From hence it is that I fuppofe our wife De-
fcribers of the Magick of the Ancients tell us
there were three Torts of Magick ^ i. Natural,
which confifted of the Parts already mentioned,
namely, the Knowledge of the Stars, the Motions
of the Heavenly Bodies, and their Revolutions and
Influences } that is to fay, the Study of Nature, of
Philofophy, and Aftronomy. i. Artificial or ratio-
nal Magick, in which they included the Know-
ledge of all judicial Aftrology, the caftiog or cal-
culating Nativities, curing Difeafes by Charms, by
particular Figures placed in this or that Pofitionj
by Herbs gather'd at this or that particular Crifis
of Time, and by faying fuch and fuch Words over
the Patient, repeated fo many times, and by fuch
and fuch Geftures, ftroking the Flefh in fuch and
fuch a manner, and innumerable fuch like Pieces
of Mimickry 3 working not upon the Difeafe it felf^
but upon the Imagination of the diftemper'd Peo-
ple, and fo effeding the Cures by the Power of
Nature, tho' that Nature were fet on work by the
weakeft and fimplell methods imaginable. But,
3<r//y, the laft is traly called Diabolical and helliih
Magick, which was operated by and with the
Concurrence of the Devil, carried on by a Cor-
fpondence with evil Spirits, with their Help,
Prefence, and perfonal AiTiftance, and chiefly
pradifed by their Priefts. And thus you have
the general Syftem of Magick, according to my
Title : But I muft enter a little into the Parti-
culars.
E The
JO A S T S T p. M
The firft Sort of this Magick I have alrca*
dy defcribed 5 and I am ftill of this Opinion, that
in all the firft Ages of the World, there was very
little other Magick than this known among Men j
That, all the Diabolical Praftices of the third Sort,
or the Arc and Legerdemain of the fecond Sort
of Magick, was perfcftly unknown to the Ma-
gicians of jEgypt or Arabia^ or afterwards of ChaU
dea^ at leaft for a great while.
As for the Magicians of ChMea^ I have named
them already, and we find nothing Diabolical among
them : as to thofe o£ jEgyp^ efpecially fuchas were
ordinarily called foj 'tis evident alfo they were gene-
rally the fame J for when Pharaoh King of Mgyp
dreamed his firft Dream of the feven fat, and the ^tsz^
leanKine, Gen. xli. the Words arc exprefs, ^ver. 8. He
fent for all the Magicians and all the wife Men ofMgypt j
and what followed? there was none that could interpret
his Dream. Upon which, Jofeph was fent forj where
by the way you may obferve the difference between
Jofeph and the wife Men or Magicians, let them be
what they will. The wife Men came when they
were fent for, and they put the King to the trou-
ble of telling them his Dream, and, as we may be-
lieve, went away to confult and confider of an An-
fwer. If they could have amufed the King with any
fham Anfwer, fo as to have quieted his Thoughts,
which were difturbed with the Oddnefs of the Ap-
pearance, they would certainly have done it 5 whence
I conclude they were not either of the fecond fort
of Magicians, who by Trick and Charm, muttering
of Words, drawing Figures, and fuch empty and
fimple Formalities, did their Work> if they had,
they would certainly have cheated the King with
fome of their Impoftures and Legerdemain, and
have made him accept of thi« or that wild Story
for an Interpretation.
Nor
of M A G 1 C K. ji
^Tbr were they diabolical Magicians, fuch as by
a real and immediate ConverHicion with the Devil,
or fome of his invifible Agents which we call evil
Spirits, wrought their ufual Wonders, or Delufions
like Wonders J and fuch as perhaps thole after-
wards made ufe of by another Pharaoh King of
Mgypt really were 5 who mimick'd the Miracles of
Mofes in the fight of the King and his Court :
If they had been fuch, the Devil would not have
fufFer'd them to be fo difgraced before their Lord,
as to go away and fay they could make nothing
of it, nor give him the Interpretation > the Devil
would certainly have furniihed them with fome
kind of Interpretation, true or falfe, at leaft fuch
as fliould have fatisfied the King for the pre-^
fent.
N.B. It is very reafonable to fugged here, thac
thcfc Magicians and wife Men oi Mgypt^ and
fo thofe afterwards at Babylon^ had been ufually
called together before, upon fuch Occafions
as thofe 5 that they had often interpreted Dreams,
perhaps fortheKinghimfelf, as well as for other
People i that fometimes they did perhaps make
fuch Interpretations as came to pals, by which
they maintained much of their Reputation a*
mong the People, as wife Men and as Magi-
cians : the fame we fee praftifcd among us to
this day by many an ignorant old Woman,
without thelcafl Claim to the venerable Name
of Magician^ much lefs of Wife s alfo we cannot
doubt but that the Kings oi Mgypt and o^ Ba*
hylon did expe6b and believe thofe Magicians
could interpret if they would j it had been
elfe a prepofterous piece of Cruelty in Nehu^
chadnezzar to put all the Magicians and wife
Men to death, becaufe they did not tell him
his Dream and the Interpretation, if he did
really believe they were not able to do it 5 for
E 2. 'tis
A S T S T E M
^tis certain they did not pretend to be able to
tell the Dream, tho' ihey did pretend to tell
the Interpretation 5 but he certainly believed
they were able to do both.
But when Pharaoh comes to talk with Jofeph^ he
honeftly tells the King it was not in him j modeftly
diverting himfelf ofall Claim to the Honour which
he forefaw was going to be put upon him, and
giving up the Praife to the fupream Agent, to
whom it was due. v. ^6. It is not in me^ but God
Jhall give Pharaoh an Anpwer of Peace 5 and then he
goes on to interpret the Dream.
I give you this as an Evidence of the Diffe-
rence in the Kinds of Magick pra6lired in thofc
times 5 the firfl Sort, 'tis plain, were, as has been
defcribed, meer Men of Learning, Maflers of Sci-
ence, namely, the Knowledge of Nature, ftudying
Philofophy, Aftronomy, and the like j fome pra6ti-
£ng one way, fome another} fome looking up a-
mong the Stars, others down among the Plants 5
fome into the Microcofm of Man, and pradifing
Medicine for the Cure of Difeafes j fome judging
of Dreams and Omens, others of Signs and Appea-
rances, and all according to their feveral Studies,
and the feveral Branches of Science which they ap-
plied themfelves to > but not any Sorcery or Devil-
work among them at that time, or for fome hun-
dreds of Years after.
But come now to the fame Country, viz. Mgypt^
for here, it feems, the Devil began firfl to converfc
with Mankind, or Mankind with him rather, in
this familiar manner j I fay, come to the fame Coun-
try at the diftance of lefs than two hundred Years,
or thereabout, and there you find the Magicians
turned into another fort of People, or rather another
fort of People mixM with them j for when A/i^/^i and
jl,aron go to Pharaoh to demand the Liberty of
the
of M A G 1 C K. J3
the IfraeliteSy and ihow Miracles or Signs before
him, 'tis iliid Pharaoh fent for the Magicians, i^c.
and they did the like.
But then let us fee how the Text diftin*
guifhes the kinds, and you will find 'tis exa61:ly
according to my prefent diftinftion : Before, 'tis
faid Pharaoh fent for the Magicians and wife Men
of Mgypt. Sec Gen. xli. 8. But now the Style is
changed, as the People werealfo, Exod.v'n, 1 1. Pha-
raoh called the Sorcerers and Magicians o^ jEgypt-^
and fee then how they a6bed, ^'^r. zz. and the Magi-
dans did the fame with their Inchantments \ and the like
in feveral other Places: fo that here the Magicians and
wife Men were of another fort, for they a61:ed by
a Diabolical Pradlice, as Sorcerers and Dealers with
the Devil J befides 'tis every where faid, they did it
by their Inchantments, which we never find fo
much as mentioned before 5 no, nor afterwards a-
mong the Chaldeans "xnd the Magicians of Perjia and
jljyria\ but they a6ted by the meer Force of their
Wifdom and Learning, ^uix. the Study of Nature;
and when that failed them, they acknowledged
they had no other Power, and could go no
farther.
Now, as I faid before, having pafs'd thro'
the beft of the Art, and. the firft and only honefl
Part of the Pradice, it follows, that we con-
fider the Subfequent Progrcfiions of the People
called Magicians, what they have been underfbood
to be, what they now are in the World, and
what we are to underftand by the Word when we
fay Magick or a Magician 3 and this \s^
Firft^ A Jugler or Shower of Tricks by Legerde-
main and Slight of hand; which I call only a fham
Magick, and which the World has been indeed de-
luded with for many Ages.
Secondly^ A real Sorcerer or Wizard that deals
With the Devil, who converfes fimiliarly with the
E 3 old
14 A S T S T E M
old Gentleman, has him at his Call, fetches him,
fends him of Errands, raifes him, lays him, ufes
him, upon all Occafions and in all Difguifes, as he
finds Occafion.
That there have been fuch as thefe in the World,
muft be true, or Hiltory muft be one univcrfal Le-
gend of Lies, and we muft have been deluded and
impofed upon by all the Writers and Regifter-
kecpers that ever ha^ e been, were, or are in Being j
nay even the facred Writings confirm it, and there-
fore, with the Pardon of all our modern Unbelievers,
who deny there is fuch a thing as a Devil or evil
Spirit in Being, either in the World or out of it,
I fay with their good Leave, I muft take it for
granted.
Now tho' I could bring many Examples among
the Modern?, where 'tis moll certain that fome
walking Gentlemen among us, who have look'd as
if they had nothing in them more than other People,
have really been a Cage of Devils^ and as the Text
calls them Unclean Spirits, yet I mqft at prefent
look a little higher, becaufe I am refolvcd to bring
fuch Evidence as cannot be denied.
Firft^ The Scripture fays of Judas^ that with or
after the Sop the Devil enter'd into him, Johnxm,
27. u^nd after the fop Sata,n enter'd into him^ that is,
into Judas 'y and in the fame Chap. v. z. the Devil
having put it into the heart ^/ Judas Ifcariot, SimonV
Son, to betray him: and again, St. Paul fpeaking to
Elymas^ whom the Text calls in totidem verbis the
Sorcerer^ calls him thou Child of the Devil. This,
and all the Teftimonies of the Devil's being miracu-
loufly difpoflefs'd by our Saviour, and by his Difciplcs
and Apoftles, will put it out of queftion, not only
that there is fuch a thing as a Devil, but alfo that
he has Pofleflion of feveral of his Servants in hu-
fnan Shape.
But
of M A G 1 C K, y J
But this is not the cafe at all, for I am not now
upon the Proof of the Reality and Exiftence of the
Devil 5 that has been worthily undertaken, and hi-
llorically, mathematically, and enthufiaftically e-
nough Perform'd by a late Writer in another
Place: But I am now talking of a Set of People
who were not poflefs'd BY, but rather, as it may
be called, are pofTefsM OF the Devil y have him in
their keeping and Cuftodyj where, by the way,
I do not find but that the Devil fcems to be very
much in Subjection to them > whether it b& volun-
tarily, and fo perhaps, like an obfequious Dog, that
fawns for what he can get •, He (the Devil) creeps and
cringes, in order the better to carry on his own
Defigns, which indeed is not at all improbable 5 or
whether there were Ways and Means which thefc
antient People had found out, by what fuperiour
Power I know not, to fubjedt the Devil to their
Orders, and make him their humble Servant upon
all Occafions, to run and go, fetch and carry, at
their whiflle : All thefe critical Enquiries may per-
haps come in my way^ when I come to talk more
particularly of the Magick of our prefent times, and
the Management of our modern Cunning Men, who
pretend to have the Devil in a String, make him
jump over a Broomftick, dance and fhow Tricks,
as the Mountebanks and Merry-Andrews do with
a Bear and a Monkey.
I muft: confers,if I can but, in my further Search
after thofe things, find out the Method the antient
Magicians had to manage the Devil thus, and
bring him to their hand, and can convey the Art to
Pofterity, or at leaftfet up a Scheme for the prefent
Improvement of it, I fhall not doubt but 1 fhal!
meet with Encouragement j and if the eminent
Mr. Wh—on will but floop to join in with my
Defign (as 1 doubt not he will, if there be but
Money to be got by it) we may publifli our Read-
E 4 ings,
f6 A S r S T E M
ings, and fct up Lc6i:Lir€s for the Inftruftion of
young Magicians, and that with extraordinary good
Succefsj nor do I think the reverend Mr. Em—^in
would flick out: for why fhould we doubt but
they who have ah'eady levell'd their Saviour with
a Clafs infinitely below the Devil, and made a
meer De'vil or Apparition of the great Teacher and
Sanftifier of the World, would willingly fet up
Ledures in Favour of the Devil himfelf, if they
can find their account in it.
Befides, when we are thus engaged in Satan's
Service, and in Conjun6tion with his Friends and
Favourites, Vve cannot doubt but the Devil him-
felf will be fo much obliged, that he may come
frankly and Voluntier, and let us into the Secret,
bind himfclf Apprentice to us for a Term of
Years, and enable us to play the Devil with him
for the Time to come, as he had played the De-
vil with us for fo many Years paft. Nor, if he
be a grateful Devil^ can he do lefs 5 for no Men in
the World feem better qualified to advance his In-
tereft in the main, however for the prefent we
may feem to keep him in a little Subjection.
On the other hand, if he fhould prove an un^
grateful Spirit, and hang an A—, as the Modell
call it, being unwilling to come into Bondage j
jhen, I fay, we mui\ try if we can't find the way
to do it without him, and, by our Black-^rt^ play
the Devil with him, and force him to come when
he's called, go when he is feat, and do as he is
bid 5 as our Predeceflbrs the antient Magicians of
Mgyp did before us, who made him affill Mofes and
jiaron^ and make Frogs, and Snakes, juft as they
diredcd him : tho' it feems when they commanded
him to make Lice, the lead and loufieft Creature
of 'em all, the honed iD^i;// confefs'd it was out of
his Power, that God was above the Devil^ and that
{in a Word) he could not do ity by which (however)
he
of M A G I C K. j7
he loft a great deal of his Credit with his Em-
ployers, and perhaps with the King himfelf.
That the Devil affifted the Magicians o^ jEgypt
to do thofe things, or in fhort, that they made ufe
of him as their Inllrument, is plain from the Text,
inz. that they did it by their Inchantments : What
manner ofConjurings or Inchantments they were
that they made lTc of, we have no parricular light
into from the facred Text 5 but perhaps fome Guefs
may be made at i^, fram what happen'd frequently
in thofe Countries in after- Ages.
Alfo we find that whatever the Magicians in
Perfta, and in Medla^ and in thofe Eaftern Countries
were, (for their Credit continued many Ages) yet in
Mgypt they were (after that) chiefly Sorcerers and
Dealers with the Devil -^ -.rd in a word, ^gypt
i'eem'd to be the Nurfery or human Devils for all
the World. Hence Baal'-^ is c^Hed a Witch, and
hence in the Roraan times the ^Egyptian Sorcerers
were brought to Antioch for the Afliftance of 7^-
lian the Apoftate, to utter Predidions, and to flat-
ter the Emperor with their good Omens and their
Prognoftications J in which he was fo fuperftitious,
that they put the grofleft Delufions upon him, 'till
the Citizens oi Antioch made a jeft of him, and ex-
pofed his Inchantments to Ridicule j for which, had
he lived to come back from the War in Perfia^ he
had vowed a fcvere Revenge.
Hence alfo the Mgyptians^ are to rhis day, the
common Strollers of the World, and arc fucceeded
by a Race of Vagabonds who pretend to the Art,
without the real Wickednefs of it, and would be
thought to deal with the Devil, when the Truth
is, they know little or nothing of him.
I fuppofe I need not tell you that the Word
Qypfie is derived from thefe ftrolling Magicians^
which really came out of Mgypt^ and wandering
over the World, got Money by their pretending
tQ
j8 A S T S T E M
to Magick, telling Fortunes, predicting Events, and
Mountebanking the World with their Inchant-
ments j 'till at lafl: having tired the Devil with
following them, and the Drudgery of their Ser-
vice being not worth his while, Satan left them j
and they have been fince that, for fome time, in
the Clafs of the well-known Cardinal who
pretending to an Acquaintance with the Devil, and
to have three inferior Daemons appointed to wait
on him, the Devil fent thofe three Daemons to
tell his Neighbours 'twas all a Cheat, and that he,
Satan^ had nothing to do with him.
'Tis very flrange Men ihould be fo fond of being
thought wickeder than they are > that they cannot
forbear, but that they muft abufe the very Devil,
and claim Kindred of him, whether he has any
Knowledge of them or no : But thus it is, and we
need not go to Mgjpt for Examples, when we have
fo many pieces of dull Witchcraft among our
felves.
It is true the Devil does not often decline an
Acquaintance where he can find his Account in it>
and therefore the eminent DoClor may hope,
that after a little farther Application to Herefy and
Blafpheray, he may be thought worthy of Admit-
tance into Satan's Favour, at Icafl fo much as to
fettle a Correfpondence, that fo they may a61: in
concert for the future.
I am told fome have thought it a particular Re-
putation to them to have it fuppofed they maintain
a Correfpondence of this kind, which muft be up-
on the foot of Satan's Credit, fuppofing that he
knows who is fit for his Bufinefs, and who not,
and that they muft be all capable Heads that he
thinks ^l to be concerned with in this manner > for
as wife Princes always chufe wife Councellors,
the Dm/ underftands the Capacities of his Friends
fo well, that he is never miftaken in his choice^
6 but
of M A G 1 C K.
j9
but they that are concerned with him mufl at
leaft be of the Cunning Clafs, for he has no Incli-
nation at all to Fools.
This brought fome juft Refleftions into my
Thought upon the Condu6t of our Times, and im-
mediately cleared up the Charafters of fome of the
greateft Politicians of our k^t^ at leaft in my Opi-
nion, feeing 'tis evident they either have too much
Brains, or too little, for the infernal Correfpondencej
let the World judge which of the two is their
Cafe.
I fay it cleared up the Charafter of fome great
Men to me, and I concluded rhey were no Ma-
gicians, that they neither pra6lifed Magick in the
Srft Senfe, as Philofophers > or in the laftSenfe, as
Conjurers 5 what they mightdo in the middle Senfe,
as Jugglers, that remains to be enquired into as Op-
portunity may prcfent.
Indeed I run over in my Refleftions the prefent
Situation of moft of the publick Affairs in Europe^
the Prime Minifters, grand Viziers, the Statefmen,
the Counfellors, Generals, Admirals; the Clergy,
whether Popilh or Proteftant, Greek Church, or
Roman Church, Chriftian or Mahometan ; and I muft
fpeak it to their Honour, that except, as a late
Writer taught me to except, our own People, our
own Country and Country Worthies, I can fee no
reafon to think any of the prefent Managers to be Ma-
gicuws'y whether, as above, we confider the Magi-
cians to be Philofophers, or as Jannes and Jamhesy
Inchanters and Conjurers.
But having fpoken of the . two feveral forts of
Magick^ I . Honeft Magick, which I have proved
to be only the Study of natural Philofophy and
Aftronomy, and fuch ufeful Parts of Knowledge,
which the Learned call Natural Magick j and,
idly^ Diabolical or infernal Magick, which is a
pradifing by the Help of Daemons or evil Spi-
rits j It
€o A S T S r E M
It remains then, that I fhould at leaft mention
the third, or which before I placed as fecond in
Order, which is Artificial Magick^ that is to fay, a
meer Legerdemain or Juggling with Nature : This
is managed by the Wit and Dexterity of Man, with
the Advantages of concealed, occult Powers, known
in Nature, but unknown and unfeen by vulgar
Heads and Eyes •, and fuch Fame tells us have been
carried to extraordinary heights, fuch as
I. The Glafs Sphere oi Archimedes,
z. The wooden Pidgcon of Architas.
3. The golden Birds of the Emperor Leo^
which fung.
4, The brazen Birds of 5of///i?j, which did both
fing and fly j and his brazen Serpent, which could
hifs.
To which we may add, Fryar Bacon's brazen
Head, which fpoke.
Thefe were all Impofitions upon the Sight or
Hearing of the People > as no doubt the Phofphorus
would have been, which makes Fire burn without
Heat, and without confuming the Matter > and had
a Man in thofe days of Invention found out a Load-
ftone^ what Wonders might he not have performed
by it ? what would have beenfaid, to fee him make a
piece of Iron dance round a Table, while the Agent
held the Magnet underneath j make another piece
of Iron touched with it, fufpend a third in the Air,
and the like j make it draw one End of a Needle to
ir, and then drive it from it again, as the Poles of
the Magnet were turned and directed ? Will any
Man believe but he that firfl fhewed thefe unac-
countable things, would have paflcd for a Magician,
a Dealer with the Devil^ nay, or rather for a real
De'uil in human Shape ?
Whoever had firfl brought fuch a wonderful Stone
into view as our ordinary Chalk- (lone, calcin'd and
turned into Lime, fuppofing it never to have been
heard
of M A G I C K. 6i
heard of before, and ihown with it the Rarity of its
Operation, 'viz. that if you threw it into the Fire, ic
would put the Fire out, and if you put it into
Water ic would burn.
Thcfe are fome of the Delufions of Artificial
Magicians^ and fuch as thefe the World has been
full of, till now we begin to be too Wife to be
cheated any longer that way j but as to State-jug-
glers, the Magick of the Party- mongers. Religious-
jugglers, and the Magick of the Pulpit, with divers
other lefs fatal Kinds, I believe they are at this
time in the Meridian of their Pra6tice and Succefs,
or near it 5 what height they may go farther we
do not indeed certainly know, it mull be left to
Time.
And thus you have an honeft Syftem of the Sci-
ence called Magick^ according to the Title of this
Undertaking.
CHAP. III.
Of the Reajon and Occajion which brought
the ancient honeft Magi, whofe original
Study was Vhilofophy^ Aftronomy^ and the
Works of Nature, to turn Sorcerers and
IVizzardsy and deal with the "Devil ; a7id
how their Converfation began,
HAVI N G thus dated the Fad, and given you
what I call a Syftem of Magick, 'tis neceffary
now, that in purfuance of my Title, I fhould in-
fift more particularly upon the third and lafl fort of
Magick I mention'd, and which is call'd Diabolical^
or according to the vulgar Acceptation, the Black"
art, and bring ic out to you from its very foun-
dation.
This
6t A S r S T E M
This muft be deduced Hiftorically from the 6*
ther two, or clfe I cannot lead you regularly into
its Original, or give you its true Defcription > be-
fides, a great many ufeful and agreeable Specula-
tions offer themfelves in the rife and progrefs of the
thing it felf, which will be moft neceffary to fpeak
to, as we go along.
Magick did not jump at once into Being, as to
the thing it felfj it was not a Revelation from
Hell, made at once to Mankind, to tell them what
they might do : The Devil did not come and offer
his Service Gratis to us, and rcprefenting how
ufeful a Slave he would be, folicit us to take him
into Pay, and this at once without Ceremony or
Introduftion.
No^ noy it was a long Progreflion of Studies, and
Improvement in wicked and mifchievous Schemes,
that brought Mankind to have recourfe to the In-
fernals, to feek the Aid of the dark Agents
below, and to follicit a Commerce of that kind
:
Nor was this done till after finding many Diffi-
culties in their other way, they faw evidently they
could not do without him, could not accomplifh
their mifchievous Defires by other Methods, and that
this way it was to be done.
Not but that the Devil was very ready, when he
found himfelf made neceffary j I fay, he was very
ready to come into the Schemes when proposM,
and to ferve us in our Occafion, and that wiiha Wil-
lingnefs which wasextreamly obliging 5 which fhew'd
him to be a Perfon of abundance ot Complaifance,
and mighty willing ro engage us whatever it coil
him 5 as much as to fay, he was glad he could ferve
us, was ready to do his utmofl for u?, and the like.
Now to go back briefly to the Occafion which
brought the Magicians to the Necellity of fecking
to him for Affiftance, and to |:ake him into the Ma-
nagement of their Affairs > the Cafe was in fhort
this-:
of M A G I C K.
6i
this: The World, as I have faid already, began to be
wifcr than the Ages before them j the ordinary
Magick of the former Ages would not pafs any
longer for Wifdomj and if the wife Men, as they
were called^ did not daily produce fome new Dil-
coveries, 'twas evident the Price and Rate of
Southfaying would come down to hl thing.
If this put them upon Stratagem and Art, in or-
der to keep up their Credit, and maintain the Di-
flance between them and the inferior Rank of
Men, it is not to be wonder'd au j and thefe Straua-
gems were of feveral kinds, as the Occafion and the
Wit of the Undertakers prefenred , for you are to
fuppofe the inquiring Temper of the common Peo-
ple to be arrived to fuch a Height, that nothing
could pafs with them for True, at leall nothing
which had any Novelty in it, unlefs it was con-
firmed by fome ilrange thing, fome Sign, fome
Miracle to be wrought, by which the Mind re-
ceiving a due ImprefHon, entertain'd the reft of the
proposed Wonder with the more Satisfadion.
At firft the Magicians fatisfy'd the Curiofity of
the People by Juggle and Trick, by framing ar-
tificial Voices and Noifes 5 foretelling ftrange
Events, by mechanical Appearances, and all the
Cheats which we find put upon the ignorant Peo-
ple to this Day 5 and it would be tedious to enu-
merate the Particulars by which they imposed upon
one another. You may guefs at them by fuch a^
are mentioned before; but prirjcipally thofe who
fludied the heavenly Motions, had great Opportu-
nities of recommending themfelvcs for Men of
Craft, pretending to tell Fortunes, calculate Nati-
vities, refolve Doubts, read the Lines of Nature
drawn in the Face, Palms of the Hand, Symetry
of the Body, Moles and Marks on the Fleih, and
the like,
Thefe
<J4 A S Y S T E M
Thcfe things they carry'd to a due Length, arid
we find the Succefs was fo much to their Ad-
vantage, that the whole World, or great Part of
it, has been Gypfey-ridden by them, even to this
Day.
It would fill a Volume larger than I propofe
this {hall be, to give an Account of the feveral
Stratagems thofe People had Recourfe to, in the
early Days of Sorcery and Magick^ in order to main-
tain their Charadter in the World as extraordinaiy.
For I muft do them fo much Juftice as I go, to
obfcrve, that they did not immediately run to the
Devil for Helpj or at lead, if fome among them
dealt in the Dark, and correfponded below, they
did not all do fo; perhaps they were not harden'd
enough at firft for the carrying on fuch a Traffick.
'Twas a new Commerce, and had fomething a little
fhocking at firft, till the necefiity of their South-
faying Circumftances brought them to comply with
any thing rather than lofe their Trade.
The jEgyptians^ you muft know, were a People
originally attended with two things, which natu-
rally made way for thefe Magical Studies.
I. Moft impertinently Inquifitive, grofly Igno-
rant in the main, (as Ignorance would be called
now, but mighty Wife, as things were rated at that
time) and prying into every thing with an irre-
fiftible Paflion for what they call'd Knowledge j
on this Account they pafs'd for the wifeft Nation
on Earth, and ^gypt was efteem'd the Center of
Learning and Knowledge. Hence Mofes was faid
to be learned in all the Wifdom of the jEgyptiam.
It is true, and they are upbraided with it by the
Ethiopians of Arabia Felix^ which they call the
South ; and who, tho' Arabians^ are calFd Ethiopi-
ans in Scripture ; I fay, it is true, that the ALgyp-
tians learned all their Magick, that is, their Aftro-
nomy and Aftrology, from the Arabians-, and they
tell
of M A G I C K. 6^
tell US that Abraham inftrudled h'lsSon Ipmael^ in all
the fuperior Knowledge in which his Poflericy
afterwards grew fo famous.
2. With this inqiiifitive Temper of the jEgyptl-
ans^ they were alfo moft ridiculoufly Superftitious j I
fay, moft ridiculouily, becaufc it ihew'd it feU in-
that fordid and moft fimple Idolatry which they hid
mong them, in which they funk below the com-
mon Notions of Worihip pradis'd by the moft
ignorant Nations in the World j for they wor-
fhip'd, or made a God of, almoft every thing thac
came in their way 5 as the Ox, the (^alf, the Wa-
ter of Nik^ nay the River it felf, the Sand, the
Crocodiles, and numberlefs things as fcnfelefs as
thofe.
As thefe things were peculiar to them as a Na-
tion, fo they particularly qualify 'd them to be im-
posed upon by their Southfayers and Magicians,
with all manner of Delufionsi nor did the fubtle
Magicians fail to make their Advantage, upon all
Occaiions, of this fuperftitious and inquiring Hu-
mour of the People, but ufed all polliblc Stratagem
and Art to delude and impofe upon them.
To this purpofe, they foon mixt their Religion
and their Magick together, their Philofophy and their
Idolatry were made Aftiltant to the general Fraud,
and to raife a due Veneration in the Mmds of the
People: To this or that particular Tale advanc'd
by their Priefts, they brought always along v iih
them fome extraordinary Revelation from the Gods,
fome wonderful Difcovery in Nature, or fomcthing
ftrange and miraculous.
How ftrangely does religious Enthufiafm k^tv its
hold of Mankind, and how exa6lly do paft things
and prefent correfpond ! As the End is the fame, fo
are the Means: pious Frauds got ground from the
Beginning, and pious Frauds get ground to the
End. As no Cheats are fo fatal as thcfe which
F come
66 A S Y S r E M
come prefac'd with Introduftions of Religionj fo
no Cheats are fo eafy to prevail, fo foon make Im-
preflions upon the People, or (lamp thofe Impref-
fions deeper.
The Priefts among the jEgyptians^ when they
turn'd Magicians^ (or rather, I fhould have faid, the
Magicians^ when they turn'd Priells,)ret up for Re-
velation, Infpiration, and a Converfation with their
Gods i and for this purpofe they withdrew into the
Defarts and Waftes, of which the Country is known
to be full ; and where to their Glory (Shame) be it
fpoken, the Religious of the Romijh Church play'd
the fame Game over again, fome Ages afterward.
Hither the ^Egyptian Priefts, I fay, retir'd for
Converfation with their Gods, from whence they
were fure to come back infpir'd, that is to fay,
Hird with fome new Dclufion to impofe upon the
People. Here they cut facred Marks upon the
Trees, and then brought them back as the Lan-
guage taught them from the Gods 5 and by which
they pretended, after muttering over them fome
unfignifying Significations, to utter fome Anfwers
to any Difficulties propofed to them j and then
fending their Votaries into the Wildernefs, they
would fet them to fearch for the fame Divine Cha-
rafters J which after long looking for, they would
find upon fome Stone, or Poft, or Tree, and come
home in Raptures for the Difcovery.
Others of thefe Divine Magicians^ or Diviners
rather, would clamber up to the top of the Pyra-
mids, whofe immenfe Height we have fuch certain
Accounts of, as may make the climbing up feem
incredible, whatever elfe may not be fo. Yet here
they went to make Obfervations, and Calculations
of the heavenly Motions, fome fay 5 but according
to others, to make their Conjurations, their facred
Retreats, and to carry on the Deiufion of converfing
with the Gods.
Here
of M A G I C K. 6,7
Here alfo they cut their Diabolical Marks, which
the ^Egyptians call the Sacred Chara6i:ers5 which
they lett behind them indeed in the Scone upon the
upper flat of the Pyran^idj for according to the
learned Greaves^ the Summit of the Pyramid was
not a Point as the top of a Spire, or as reprefent-
ing a Flame, and which by its great Height it feem'd
to be J
but the uppermoft Fart form'd a Plain,
which Stephanus in his Comment, fupplying the
Defed in Herodotus^ makes to be eight Orgyi^j
which again, according to Suidas^ is a Fathom^ or
fix Foot 5 fo that the Plain on the top of the Pyra-
mid muft be eight Fathom fquare: Others report it
to be nine Foot only, tho* I think the former
more probable.
But be that as it will, here 'tis certain they made,
or found made by others, certain dark, Myftick, ^
and as they pretended facred Chara6ters, whofe Sig-
nifications were reprefented by the Priefts juft as
they pleas'dy for we have reafon to believe they
had not then the ufe of Letters j and as fome think,
thefe myftick Charaders were the Original of all the
Hyeroglyphick Writing, which was afterwards the
ordinary Pradbice of the Mgyptians^ till the Hebrew
Chara6ters were handed to them by Mofes^ from
the Writing of God deliver'd him at Mounc
It is very well obfervM by the learned Author
juft now nam'd, that had not the Priefts ftood in
need of fomething extraordinary, to make their
coelcftial Converfe feem more Weighty and Impor-
tant, all their Aftronomical Obfervations might as
well have been made from the plain of the Rock
upon which thofe Pyramids are built, and which
fupport the Foundation > which, as he takes notice, is
it felffo elevated, that in a Country which is all a low,
\
flat and level Surface, for near fifty Miles every way,
and affords a fair Horifon, is as well fuiced lor all
F z fuch
<J8 A S r S T E M
fuch Obfervations as require a large extended Pro-
fpciSt, as it would be if it were feven or eight hun-
dred Foot higher, which is fuppofed to be the
Height of the l-'yramid.
But the Reafon is evident 5 the mounting the
Steps or Degrees of the Pyramid on the out -fide,
was a work of vaft Labour, and fome Hazard 5
Every Head could not bear the Elevation 5 every
Mind could not have Rcfolution to undertake it 5
few would venture up to examine the Truth of the
Charaders, or bring down Copies of them, much
lefs examine into the Nature of them. And if they
had gone up it was enough, the cunning Priefts
had impreil them there, and left the Originals up-
on the top Stone of the wonderful Building, magi-
cal and awful in it felfi and as it was really To,
that there the Chara6ters were to be {tt\\ it was
no hard matter to perfuade the credulous fuperfti-
tious People,
1. That they were written there by the Finger
of the Gods:
2. That the Interpretation of them was given by
Infpiration to the fame Priefts, or wife Men, who
firft difcover'd, and brought down the Chara6ters
themfelves.
How far thefe Delufions have prevail'd, and do
to this Day prevail among the jEgyptians^ I need,
not tell you> 'tis enough to fay it has gone fuch a
Length, as has encouraged Enchufiaftic Pretenders,
and made J^gypt the Nurfery of Witchcraft to the
whole World.
But why fhould we think it ftrange to have Di-
vinity and Magick thus blended together in a Coun-
try fo fuperftitious as Mgypt? Has there not been a
llranger Mixture of Magick and Witchcraft, not
omitting Prieftcrafr, in aU kinds of Religions ever
fince, and is it lefs among the Politer Rdigions
now in Voi>ue, than u w*is in thofe Days?
To
of M A G 1 C K, 6p
To begin at the very Pinnacle of the Church,
and to leave Judaical Magick all behind us^ tho'
they had the Devil almoft in every Synagogue j I
fay, to begin at the Pinnacle of the Church, How
many Popes in particular does Hiftory give us an
Account of, who have been Sorcerers and Conjurers,
and who have deak with the Devil in the mofi open
and avow'd manner? How has the /?<5;^//; Church been
eilabli(ht upon the Artificial Magick of the Clergy ?
and how juftly may we fay to her, as Jehu to the
King of (frael^ What Peace^ while the Whoredoms of
thy Mother Jezebel and her Witchcrafts are fo many ?
But not to make our Enquiries a Satyr upon our
felves, in falling upon Popery, where we are equally
guilty j let us recommend it to our Moft Reve-
rend, and Right Reverend, to put our own Ecclefi-
allick Affairs into fuch a good Pofture, that we
may have no Magick among us 5 that while we pull
down the formal Magicians^ we may not fet up the
cunning Men upon the Fall of the wife Men^ and
ere6t Herefy in the room of Schifm.
Some People pretend our Modern Divinity is fo
Magical in its own Nature, that it is not eafy to
feparate them 5 that is, in a word, the Devil has {^o
farencroach'd upon the ^hurch, that it is impoffible
to cad him out: the Truth is^ if it was not fo, we
fhould hardly have fuch a llruggle as has now been
among us to keep the true Lord in Pofieffion. And
fince the Church has but one true and rightful
King and Sovereign, there would never have been
fuch a bold Attempt to depofe him, if the Devil,
the ancient Ufurperof his Throne, had not been at
work again to flep up in his Room. But we fhall
have occalion to fpeak of this Pare more plainly by
and by.
It was with great Succefs, that the ^Egyptian
Prieils wen: on in the manner as above, and their
Artificial Magick went u great way in all the
F 3 Eaftern
A SYSTEM
Eaftern World j they were counted the beft and
wifeft Men, who, Mountebank like, could ihow
moll: Tricks, and invent the moil furprizing things
to take with the Vulgar, fo as to give their Words
the Force of an Oracle, and entitle them to the
Chara61:cr of Divine and Prophetick: And thus
we may fuppofe the World going on for many
Ages, till at length, to come nearer our own Times,
and indeed nearer to the Praftice of our own Times
too, their Mimickry was exhaufted j they had no
more Tricks to play, the juggling Trade grew
itale and dull, the World began to look beyond
them, and expe6ted fomething more> and fo the
lad, I do not fay the Church Jugglers, went to the
Devil for Help. 1 had rather tell you that another
Generation, who had always been true Magicians^
true Pradicers of the Diabolical Parr, came in play
of courfe, and fucceeded the firft, who gradually
depofed thcmfelves by their meer Impotency> and
juft as Darknefs is a deprivation of Light, and fuc-
ceeds it by the meer Confequence of things, fo the
honed Ignorance of the innocent Magician being
unable to keep the Expedation of the People up,
and anfwer the Importunities of the hg^^ dealing
with the Devil fucceeded, even by the meer Con-
fequence of things.
The new Magick coming thus in Play, let us fee
how it made its firfl Entrance in the World, and in
what Shapes it began to appear 5 inwhich Search we
{hall find, in ihort, that Religion dill open'd the
Door. For as the Devil afpir'd at nothing more
from the Beginning than to be fet up for a God, fo
he always built his Chappel clofe by God's Church}
it was in the Confequence of this, that the
Pricds were always his more immediate Correfpon-
dents. How long they continued {o^ but efpecially
when the Correfpondence ceas'd, would be a Dif-
covery worth making to the World : but O how
difficult
!
It
of M A G 1 C K. 71
It is indeed to be obferv'd, and the Devil has
done us Chriftians that Juftice, that Satan has dif-
cover'd his Attachment to the Pagan Rites in Di-
llindion from, and Oppofition to, the Chriflian
Worihipon many Occafions, and that particularly as
perhaps the latter is more fitted to introduce Devil-
worfhif) in the World > wc have fome Inftari-
ces of his making this Diltindlion, particularly
when the Emperor Julian^ while he was only
Cafar^ and had not declar'd himfelf Apoftate, (nay,
was perhaps more inclined to be a Chriilian than a
Pagan, for he was Educated a Chriftian,) I fay, it
was obferv'd, that he was perverted from Chri-
flianity, and confirmed a Pagan, by Maximus a Ma-
gician.
N. B. This Maximus was a Magician^ when the
Word Magician fignified no more a wife Man,
or a Southfayer, but a dov/n-right Conjurer,
. a Mailer of the Black-art, or One who dealt
with the Devil.
Nor was it that the Magicians were Favourers of
Paganifm only, but fuch was the Subtilty of the
Devil, that indeed the Pagan Worfhip confifted
much in Sorcery and Magick, Conjurings, Invo-
cation of Devils, and raifing evil Spirits 5 by Thefe
the Rites and Ceremonies of Paganifm werefuppor-
ted. 'Tis faidof the famous Champion of the Chri-
ilian Religion, Athanafius^ that he underftood all the
Myfteries of the Pagan Theology 5 but we are noc
come to that Length in our Enquiries yet.
The Devil had a great many good Reafons to
befriend the Pagan Worfhip, rather than the Chri-
flian J for that indeed the Subflance of Paganifm
was a Diabolical Syllem in it felf, and to worfhip
the Heathen Gods, was EfTentially to worfhip the
Devil, as we fhall fee in its Place.
F 4 Wc
7i A S r S T E M
V/e mufl obferve here, that the Curioiity of
Man in the moll: early Times was never fully grati-
fied, but when his Underilanding was as it were
confounded, when he was under ibme Aftoniiliment
and Surprize, at feeing or hearing feme ftrange
thing. The Pharifees, when they were attacking
our Saviour, as they almoft were always, and when
fls they though r they infulted him, ask'd him what
Sign doeft thou fhow, that thou doeft fuch things
as rhdc?
And in other Places 'tis faid, when he did per-
form lome miraculous Things they were aftonifh'd
a' him 5 Altonifliment introduces Silence, Men are
fiiilamaz'd, and have nothing to fay, and then Nature
d:ciatfs Credulity as the Confcquence, viz. that
when rhey arc thus furpriz'd with Wonder, they
fhould confequentiy believe the Perfon who fo afto-
nifh'd them with his Miracles: tho', by the way, it
was not always To with the Jews^ for they were
amaz'd, and yet did no^ believe neither > in which
ihcy were fomething of Kin to an unbelieving
Chriilian in our Town, of Ecclefiaftic Fame tooj
who fays he, w^onders and is allonifli'd at the Ma-
jefty of the Scnprure Style, and yet docs not be-
lieve a Word they fay. A bolder Infidel I have not
met with fince I was laft at the Pagan Circle,
near old Charing^ where God was own'd, fworn
by^ imprecated, blafphem'd, and deny'd, all in a
Breath.
But to go on : The Curiofity of Mankind I fay
was never fully fatisfy'd, but when fomething won-
derful was offer'd, and therefore Miracle was im-
mediately call'd for, when any new Syflem was
offer'd, or any thing difficult propofed.
Thus when God fent Mofes and Jaron to Pha-
raoh^ he fuppofes the very Cafe; Mofes and Amon
were to aOlire Pharaoh that God fcnt them, and
they were in his Name to demand Liberty for the
Children
of M A G 1 C K. 7^
Children of Ifrael. The Demand was furprizing:
'twas an infolenc thing indeed, for a couple of
Slaves to come, and ask the King to releafe fix
hundred thoufand Men, Slaves like themlelves,
from their Captivity, and from the King's Service,
whofe Siibjedts, or rather Servants, they were 5 and
Pharaoh 'tis to be fuppos'd began to refent it 5 nay
we may fuppofe without any Prefumptijn thatPZ?^-
raoh\ Courtiers made Game at 'em, and his Mini-
fters of State perhaps propos'd to punifh them for
their Impudence, and for putting fuch Notions into
the People's Heads, which might be dangerous,
and might excite Tumuks and Rebellion 5 and
therefore it was Prudence to fupprefs the Inlblence,
and make Examples of the two pretended Ambaf-
fadors.
But hold \ fays Mofes^ we do not come to affront
your Majefty^ nor are the People we come to
fpeak for inclin'd to revolt or rebel 5 but wc come
from God j the People of Ifiael whom we rcprefent
are God's chofen fiivourite Nation, tho' they are
your Servants, and they are commanded to go three
days Journey into the Wildernefs, to perform a
great Sacrifice, and make a great Feaft to him 5 and
therefore we come to defire your Leave, that we
may go peaceably and do the Duty of our Wor-
ship j afluring your Majefly, that God himfelf, who
has thus commanded us our, has fent me to you to
demand your Afient.
God fent you ! fays the King : a ^xs.t Story for you to
put into the People's Heads to make them idle, and
hinder my Bufinefs> go, get you gone to your
Work, and to your Task, or 1 fiiall find a way to
drive thefe Whymfies out of your Heads again.
But ftill Mofes and Aaron^ with other the Heads
of the Ifraelites^ (for there were many more with
them) infilled, that they were fent by the immediate
Dire6lion of God himfdf. And how do you prove
that.
74 A S T S r E M
that, fays the King, what Sign do you give mc
that you come with fuch an Authority ?
With this Mofes repHes to Pharaoh^ I fhall foon
convince your Majefty that 1 am fent by the Great
King, and God of Heaven and Earth: and with
that turning to Jaron^ he fays to him, Brother^ Throw
down the Staff, or Rod, that is in your Hand,
upon the Ground before the King.
Aarm does fo, throws down his white Staff, and
immediately it was turn'd into a Serpent.
The Learned have fpent fome Thought upon
what kind of Serpent this ihould be> but that is not
to my Purpofej nor are their Conjedtures of any
Weight, efpecially that fooliih Notion, that it
was the fame kind of Serpent as appeared and talk'd
to Eve in Paradife, and that it walk'd ere6t in Fha"
raoh's Prefence, fo that it frighted the King.
But Pharaoh recovering the Surprife, tells them,
W hat does this fignifie ? you ihall fee I have Peo-
ple of my own can do as much as this. Upon
which his two chief Conjurers or Magicians were
caird \Uy 'tis fuppos'd they were at hand, for the
Devil is feldom out of call when he is wanted for
any Mifchief
Upon this comes James and Jamhres^ fo St. Paul
caird them, and the Text fays they were two Ma-
gicians^ and perhaps there might be a great many
more of that fort > for it feems the King's Court
was not then without a fufficient Number of Cler-
gy in daily waiting. And the Text adds, Pharaoh
call'd the wife Men^ and iht Sorcerers -y and the next
Word calls them Magicians^ and not only Magi-
cians in common, as the Word was ufed Perfonally,
but as it was ufed Nationally, The Magicians of
jEgypt : whence 'tis inferr'd, that there were fome
Magicians not only more Eminent than others, but
fuch as were in publick Office there j as the Emi-
nent Dr. //..... may be call'd the King's Aftro-
nomer,
of M A G I C K. 7y
nomer, or as the more Eminenc Mr. Flamfiead ufu-
ally caird himfelf the King's Star-gazer > and if it
was not fo that thefe Men were in ordinary At-
tendance, and in Pay, how fhould they be brought
in fo foon, while Mofes and jlaron were in thfc
Prefence ?
Well, thefe Men being call'd in, Pharaoh^ in
Contempt of Mofes and Aaron^ and the Sign ot
Miracle they had fhewn, ask'd them if they could
not do that as well as Aaron ?
They readily anfwer Yes, and fall to Paw-waw-
ing^ as ih^ Americans call it, and ufing their Inchant-
mens, invoking or whifpering their Daemons, or
what other Diabolical Arts they might ufe we
know not 5 but upon this, and their Staves or Rods
being cad down, they were turn'd into Serpenrs
too.
This was enough to make Pharaoh triumph over
Mofes and Aaron^ and their Company, and deriding
their Mirale, tell them infultingly,this did not at all
teflifie their Miflion from God, for they might fee
his wife Men could turn Rods into Serpents as well
as they. Nor did the Diftinftion which God was
pleas'd to {how, by fufFering Aaron's Serpent to de-
vour or fwallow up the Serpents of the Egyptian
Sorcerers, alter the Cafe with Pharaoh-^ for that,
as an Accident, did not import any thing at all in the
Cafe. And thus he fent them, or rather drove
them, away with Contempt, and immediately fent
Taskmallers among the People to double their
Affli61;ions, encreafe their Labours, and force them
to make Brick without Straw.
Well, Mofes and Aaron come again with the
fame MefTage, and it had the fame Event, they are
Banter'd and ridicuPd : As if the King had calPd to
them thus j Well, you are come again, and you fay
God has fent you, pray has he furnirfi'd you with
any better Teftimony than you had before, have
you any other Miracle to ihow ? The
f
76 A S Y S r E M
The facred AmbalTadors gravely tell him they
had, and if he would ftill refufe to grant their De-
mands, he fhould fee it 5 nay, they tell him be-
fore- Land what it lliould be, namely, that they
would turn the Waters o£ Nile^ the great River of
their Country, into Blood.
Phara'jh^ as may be fuppofed, not believing they
could do It, ti ears them ftill in the fame manner,
and refules ftill to receive them as MclTengers from
God> upon which, Mofes calls to Aaron^ and bids
him Itretch out his Rod and fmite the Waters of
the River, and they were immediately turned into
Bloud, and all the Waters, Ponds, and Pools be-
iides> for /Egypt is full of Pits and Ponds, wherein
they preferve the Water of Nile after the annual In-
undation.
The King, frighted at this fudden Change of the
Waier, is a little calmer han he was before; but
conddering the matter, he calls his Magicians to fee
if they could not do this alfo, as well as Mofes
\
when they came they did the fame, by which (till
the blinded Mind of the Prince continued obfti-
nate.
I might run through the reil of the Miracles
wrought there, and lliew you how the Magiciam
brought Frogs, but could not bring Lice 5 but
this is not to the Cafe 5 the Story is known.
Only one thing I mud note for your Diredion
in the reading this Part of the Story, 'viz. that the
Magicians could bring Plagues, at lead fome of
them, as well as Mofes and Aaron-y but the Magi-
cians could not remove them again, as Mofes did ;
fo that the King might have perceived that which
the Magicians themfelves acknowledged in the
Plague of the Lice, that it was the Finger of God
which only could remove the Plagues he brought.
The whole Defign of this Remark is to Ihew,
that it was always ihe Temper of Mankind to de-
mand
of M A G I C K. 77
man^ a S«gn or a Miracle, to confirm any new ad-
vanced Do6lTine, or any extraordinary Miffion, and
to take thofe Miracles when produced for a full
Confirmation.
This Temper of the People, as it drove the Ma-
gicians to their Shifts how to fupply Miracles to
obtain Credit with the People, fo it drove them
beyond their Shifcs too at laft, and brought them
to a Confederacy with the Devil for a Supply of
Wondcrfuls to delude the People. They tell us of
a certain Sorcerer at Antioch^ who for the Confir-
m;ition of fome particular thing, which he had af-
firmed to the People, to keep up his Credit with
them, told them, that fuch an Evening he would
caufe Fire to come down from Heaven, and that
it fhould reft on the Top of fuch a certain Hill, in
the Sight of all the City.
Whether the cunning Artift had found out any
Compofition by which to make artificial Fireworks,
agreeable to what is done at this time or not, is
not certain 3 tho' 'tis moft certain the Arc of ma-
king Gunpowder was not then known, nor for above
a thoufand Years afterwards: But for certain he
caufed fuch a Machine to mount in the Air, unfeca
in the dark of the Evening, which then burfting,
came down again in a Shower of Fire, like the
Stars (as we call them) which fpread themfelves
and fall down upon the burfting of the Tail of a
Rocket i and this fo amazed the People, that they
believed afterwards every thing he faid.
Thus Simon the Sorcerer is faid, by his Diabolical
Inchantments, to fly up in the Air, and perform
fo many furprizing things, that 'tis faid the Peo-
ple called him the Great Power of God^ or the
Appearance of the great Power of God, v<f^j viii. lo.
Indeed the Defcriprion the Scripture gives there
of this Smon is very remarkable to ch- cale in hand j
firft 'tis faid, 'ver, p. "that he ujed Sorcery and bewitched
the
A SYSTEM
the People^ that is, the People of Samaria > then 'tis
added, all the People gave heed to him, and faid,
fhis Man is the great Power of God -y the meaning is
evident, this Man has done fuch great and flrange
things, Hicwed fuch Miracles, fuch Wonders, that
none but the great Power of God could enable
him to do \ and therefore 'tis certain that he is aided
and aflifted by the great Power of God 5 and this
he held a long time. ver. 11. 'To him they had re-
gard^ beca.ufe for a long time he had bewitched then%
ijijith his Sorceries.
The Cafe of Simon and the People at Samaria
was juft as it was with Pharaoh and his Magicians,
when Mofes and Aaron came to him. Pharaoh and
all his Courtiers gave heed to Jannes and Jambres^
for that of a long time they had bewitched them
with their Sorceries.
It remains a Queftion here, by what Power and
by whofe Hand it muft be, that the Magicians of
^gypt turned their Rods into Serpents 5 fmotc the
Waters, and turned them into Blood j brought
up Frogs, i^c. that is, in ihort, mimicked or imi-
tated the Miracles of Mofes and Aaron. If I am
^sked by whofe Permiffion it was done, I know how
to anfwer j but if you ask who was the Inftru-
ment, I muft fay it was the Devils for the Text
fays exprefly, they did it by their Inchantments.
On the other hand, when they were baffled in
their Paw-wawing for Lice, and could not per-
form it, 'tis faid exprefly, they acknowledged that
they could not do it, for that was the Finger of Gody
Exod. viii. ip.
Now whether the Magicians meant, it is theFin-
fcr of God that hinders us from doing now as we
id before, fo that we cannot bring up Lice as we
did Frogs i or whether they feemed to acknow-
ledge, that the Plague of Lice was the Finger of
God, tho' they did not grant that the Blood and
the
of M A G I C K. 7^
the Frogs were fo, becaufe the Devil could do it
alfo j this, I fay, is a Doubt which Commentators
do not refolve, or at lead do not agree about.
But take it which way you will, 'tis an Acknow-
ledgment, that what they did by their Sorcery and
Inchantments, was not done by the Finger of
God> and alio that when the Finger of God was
in the Work, their Sorcery and Inchantments were.
impotent and could do nothing.
It is not to be queftioned but as this Correfpoix-
6cnc^ began between thefe Magicians and the in-
fernal Spirits, they did alfo upon all Occafions, and
with the utmoft of their Power, as well as withi
the greatefl Artifice and Cunning, endeavour ta
make the People believe, that what they did was
by the great Power of God, by the Finger of
Heaven 5 for this alone anfwer'd the End, which.
wa& Deluding, and Impofing upon Mankind. 'Twas
the Unhappinefs of that Ag^^ as it is of ours, wheu
a more modern and indeed more fatal kind of Ma-
gick is pradtifed in the World 5 I fay, it was their
Unhappinefs that the Minds of the People feemed
prepared for their Delufions, by being more eafily
impofed upon than ufual.
The Eajiern World had for many Ages been led
and guided by the Juggles and Legerdemain of their
Southfayers and wife Men, as they were called j and
when they by the Degeneracy of the Times were,
as I have faid, brought fo low as to fubmit to Sor-
cery and Inchantment, they had a vaft Advantage
over the People, by the good Opinion which the
people had of their Sincerity and Honcfty, and thac
they would not by any means cheat and impofe
upon them.
Thus when Errors and damnable Do6lrines in
Religion are broached and fet on foot among us by
Men of apparent Sandity in Converfation, Men of
fevcre Morals, of rigid and auflere Lives, blaraelefs
and
8o A S Y S T E M
and mortified Manners, flridly pra6i:ifing the good
things which they preach, and who by that Stri6t-
nefs of Converfation have obtained a Reputation
in the World, as Men that do nor willingly deceive
the People, or that at leail have not a wicked De-
fign to deceive 3 In fuch cafe, I fay. Error comes
armed with a fatal and double Power, and its in-
fluence is much more likely to do Mifchief, the
Hypocrify is the more dangerous, and the People
more eafily abufed.
\ Who could, in our Days expedt, that Men
of Morals, Men of unfpotted Lives, and whofe
Charadters would be fuch as never to fuffer any
Reproach, fhould blemiih all their Reputation,
which that commendable Reftitude of Life had
obtained for them, with harbouring a horrid
and deteftable Blafphemy againft the Holy Ghoft.
it felf, robbing the Son of God of the Equality
which he thought it no Robbery to affiime, and de-
nying the Godhead of him who is GodhleJJed for ever ?
But this is flill too folemn, and I am not alfo
come on far enough in Order of time to talk of
thofe People 5 we fhall meet with them again in
our Way : for the prefent I muft be content to go
back to the South and to the Eafl, vifit the pri-
mitive Times of Sorcery and Witchcraft, and fee if
we can find it out, how the Devil and Mankind
came to be fo well acquainted as we find they have
been •, for certainly it was not all done at once. Satan,
whofe Region is the Air, and whofe Bufinefs is in
the Dark, was not immediately correfponded with
in an open, publick, and avowed manner 5 he did
not walk about in Perfon, undifguis'd and open,
cloathed in the Shapes and Figures of a Devils and
afting like himfelfj he certainly made his court to
Mankind by fome particular Applications, or they
. to him 3 for the Learned are not fully agreed who
made the firft Advances towards the new Acquain-
tance,
oj M A G I C K. 8
1
tancc, and whether the Devil made love firft, or
how Mankind found him out. I mufl confefs it is
an Enquiry of Moment, and the Hiftory of it would
take up feme Room in our Speculations, perhaps
very much to your Satisfidbion j I mean, if we could
give a true and particular Account how the De'vil
and Mankind came firit acquainted.
And firft, it would be particularly improving to
our Underftandings, if we could tell where the firft
Occafion of the Correfpondence lay > that is to fay,
I. Whether the Deuil in the Adminiflration of his
Affairs found it abfolutely neceflary to fettle a Cor-
refpondence among Mankind, and therefore, as
Mr. Milton has it, travelled to this Globe upon the
foot of new Difcoveries, and improved upon thofe
Difcoveries afterwards by the dexterity of his Ma-
nagement, making his Acquaintance with Mankind
his own way, and as he found proper for his Occa-
fions: or,
2. Whether Mankind finding their Defires to
be wicked, infinitely greater than their Capacities,
and being under an abfolute Ncceflity of fome ex-
otick Helps, fome AfHitances farther and other
than they found natural Powers would fupply,
made their Application to him ^ according to the
laudable Example of my old Friend and good Pa-
tron in every wicked Contrivance, the late Ho-
nourable Mv.M—g M— who (faving that I can-
not fay I believed him) told me, that being in an
extraordinary Streight, and wanting an infallible
Agent in a particular Piece of Revenge where a
certain Female had jilted and infulted him, went
out into his Garden, three Nights together, juft
at the moment of Twelve, {that it feems was the cri^
tical time for Satan to be fpoke with) and called
him aloud by his Name, telling him he wanted his
immediate Attendance in an Affair of the utmoft
Importance.
G Now,
Si A S r S T E M
Now, I fay, which of thefe two was the Cafe at
the Beginning of the Intercourfe between Man and
his Mafter, is hard to determine, and would be a
mofl admirable Difcovery if the Certainty could be
come at, in a manner agreeable to the nature
of the thing, fo as it might be depended upon.
For my own Part, if I might give my Opinion, I
fhould determine it in Favour of the Deml^ and
that Mankind were the Agreflbrs, firfl fought the
Acquaintance, implored his infernal Majefty's Af-
iiftance, propofed a League or Confederacy with him
ofFenfive and defenfive, and vowed themfelves to be
his faithful Allies, and to fcrve him to the utmofl:
of their Power > upon which Application, Satan, as
powerful Princes often do, yielded to their Im-
portunities, granted their Petition, took them into
his Prote61:ion, and has been their conftant Friend
and Confederate, on all wicked Occafions, ever
fince.
But there is one Difficulty in the way of this
Opinion, which indeed gives me a fhock in the
Faith of it, and feems to intimate that it cannot be
fo, at leaft that it cannot be abfolutely and fully fo
in the largeft Senfej and that is, How did Man-
kind come firft to know that there was fuch a
Creature as a Demi in Being ? that he was capable
of giving them Afliftance in the Agency of fuch black
Defigns as they really wanted his Help in ? that he
was a Spirit qualified for his Correfpondence, and
that he would upon Application give him the Affi-
ilancc he wanted? And again, if he did know, or
that any traditional Memoirs remained with him
from the Records ofPaftAges, of the Agency of the
Devil with old E've^ or with any of the Antedi-
luvean Race, and how Satan had managed things in
thofe Times j yet it does not appear how he found
the Way to correfpond, whether he had any Inftru-
aions for his Application, and in a word, how he
knew
of M A G I C K. %i
knew where to find the Devil out, and to come to
the Speech of him. Thefe Difficulties indeed lie
in the way of my lall Hypothefis \ and 'till they
can be folved to the general Satisfadion, I doubt
I muft quit the fuppofed Application of Man to the
Devil^ and allow xh^l Satan himfelf firft pickt Ac-
quaintance with him, that the Correfpondence be-
gan that way, that the Devil offer'd his Service to
him, and let him know before-hand how ready
he would be to come at his Call, and to aflift him
upon all Occafions.
I muft confefs this Suppofition lays the Devil a
little low in your thoughts, depreciates his Cha-
rafter, and places him beneath the Dignity of his Se-
raphiclc Original : But it cannot be helped \ if the
Devil will make himfelf a Slave, he muft j and if he
will be, according to the happy Title of the Chief
of his Confederates, Servus Servorum^ who can help
it? The thing explains it felf: Whatever he was at
firft, he certainly has been, is, and is like to be the
moft obfequious, humble, diligent Devil that ever
Mankind could have had to do with.
I muft acknowledge that I did not enquire of
my Friend juft now named, whether the Devil
gave his Attendance immediately, and with his ufual
Alacrity, upon his calling out fo Audibly to him 3
not that I ever doubted but that the Devil did waic
upon him, becaufe 'tis vifible that he has afted as
if the Devil had been in him ever {ince> but, I fay,
I ftiould have enquired whether he came at the firft
Call, for without doubt he called loud enough for
him to hear 5 for, as Voice always afcends, the
Vibration moving moft naturally upward, and that
Satan's particular Rcfidence is faid to lie that
way, there is no room to queftion but he could
hear him ^ unlefs, as Elijah faid to the Priefts
of Baal^ he might be bufy, or afleep, or gone a
Journey 5 which feldom happens to him, fo as to be
out of the way of Mifchicf.
G z N, B.
84 A S T S T E M
N. B. Here indeed I ought to make fome
fmall Apology for what 1 happen'd to fay of
the Honouraole Perfon I juft now mentioned,
and \\ ho I feemed to fuggeft was not to be
believed; which Exprefiion (he being a Per-
fon of Honour) / oug/jt to explain^ as I do by
thefe Prtfents, and in Manner and Form fol-
lowing, that is to fay, that he is always to be
believed, in all Gates, and relating to all Perfons,
but himfelf> but he claiming a Right and
Privilege of flandcring himfelf, and being ex-
ceeding fond of being thought wickeder
than he is, I vcntur'd, by way of Obfcrvation,
to fufpc(5t his Veracity, when he talks of his
Father*s only Sonj knowing that as he has fo
conftantly boafted of Sins he was never able
to commit, and that every thing muft be
falfe which cannot be true, fo there is no
Credit to be given to him in that Particular.
But in all other Cafes you mud underftand
mc to acknowledge him for a Man of as nice
a Tafte, and as Itrift an Obferver of Truth
and Decency, as ever Satan correfponded with j
which publick Acknowledgment Ihope he will
take for ample Satisfadion.
Now, with Pardon for the needful DigrefHon
above, I go on with repeating in Subltance what
1 concluded before, viz. that this Difficulty is fo
great, that I cannot eafily get over il^'viz. to refolve
who began the Acquaintance between Satan and
cur Anccftors of the Eafl, for there it fcems they
firfl correfponded.
Nor can I proceed Hiftoricallyin my prefent Un-
dertaking, without coming to a Certainty in this
Point, and 'till it is determined one way or other j
and for that Rcafon, J think I muft for the pre-
fent, 'till the Deujil thinks fit to clear himfelf of
the Charge, leave it at his Door^ and grant that he
found
of M A G I C K. 8;
found the Correfpondence fo much to his Advan-
tage, that is to fay, fo much for the Inrercft of his
prefent Undertakings of another kind, that he made
no Scruple of being firii; in the Application 5 that
he ft'ioped without Ceremony to make thefirft Vifit,
and fo began the Treaty afterwards in his own
Name.
Nor has the Devil been very nice in his fubfe-
qucnt Intimacies, or in the Management of the
Correfpondence after it was begun 5 but has on fo
many Occalions teftified his Refolution to culti-
vate the Friendlliip fo (happily for him) begun,
that they found him ever after at their Elbow
when they had Occafion for him, and fometimes
vyhether they had Occafion for him or no 5 whe-
ther he is lefs kind to their Pofterity, let his Friends
and Confederates of the prefent Age teflify.
It is true that fometimes v^e find, or at lead they
tell us fo, that he is too cunning for his Corre-
fpondentSi and that when he has drawn them into
Bargains, he is not fo juft to his Word ashefhould
be, or as they expededj and this brings fomc Scan-
dal upon the Acquaintance, as if he was not a faith-
ful Confederate, and that he leaves his Friends of-
ten in the Lurch, as he did the late famous Car-
touch in France^ Jonathan Wild in England^ and as
he has done the poor Trooper lately at Drefden^
who, they fay, he ought to have fccured from the
Officers of Juflicej and that when he had killed Mon-
fieur Halm the Lutheran Minifter, the Devil fhould
have given him an invitible Cloak to have carried
him off, and not have left him to the Mercy of the
Proteilants, after he had done him fuch an eminent
Piece of Service.
But let us bring things to a light Underftanding,
do Satan Juftice, and fet the Saddle upon the right
Devil, In thefe Cafes, the Qiieftion is not, whether
the Devil^ after having made Bargains with thefe
People, did not perform, and was not fo jufl to his
G }
Wor4
A SYSTEM
Word as theyexpeaedj but whether he was not as
juft to his Word as they ought to have expefted?
For Example, perhaps in making their Bargains with
the Devil^ they exped things to be performed
which it is not in his Power to perform \ the Mi-
ftake Hes not in Satan himfelf, but in them who
make a God of him, and will have him be able to
do every thing.
Now 'tis true that Satan, as he is a Spirit, is
Magnipotent, but he never was Omnipotent > and
therefore there may be, and are, abundance of fine
things which fuch People exped of him, which he
really not only never promifes, but is not in any
Condition to perform i and if People will have hitn
do what he is not able to do, that is their Fault,
not hisi all they can blame him for in that cafe is,
that he does not rell them how far he can, or can-
not,ierve them 5 and that truly, to give him his Due,
feems to be none of his Bufinefsj but like a cunning
Artificer, who is loth to tell you what he cannot
do, but enlarges and expatiates upon his real Abili-
ties > fo the Devily if you are willing to believe he
can do thus and thus for you, 'tis enough if he
does but equivocate, and tacitly grant it, without
engaging to perform 3 but he is not bound to con-
fefs his Impotence, and own he cannot do it: So
thcfc People pretend to blame him, whereas in truth
they ought only to blame themfelvcs for expecting
things of him, that even the Devil himfelf is not able
to perform.
Thus our late Friend Jonathan^ while he kept
within Bounds, had, no doubt, a faithful and fi'iend-
ly Correfpondence with him. ^ But, faid the Devll^
^ What would Jonathan have me do? did he ex-
^ ped I could fave him, when he committed a Felo-
* ny even with his Fetters on, and while he was
f in Newgate ? I had been his Protedor in a thou-
^ fand Rogueries, Things, which if I had not flood
*? by him, be could never have got over: I had
hang'd
of MAGIC K. Zj
^ hangM a hundred and fifty honeft Rogues to fave
' him 3 every one ofwhichjif 1 hadnothelp'dhimto
' be too cunning for them, and flopt their Mouths
' till'twas too late to open them, could have hang'd
' him and favcd themfelves 5 but he was come to
' fuch a Pitch at laft, and pufh'd his Fate fo far,
' that not I, no not the Devil himfelf^ could favc
* him.
The like Plea the Devil made for himfelf, no
doubt, in the cafe of his French Favourite Cav
touch 'y
* Had bethought fit, after a thoufand au-
' dacious Villanies fuccefsfully committed, and an
' infinite Stock of Treafare amafs'd, for he was
* grown rich by the Trade > had he thought fit to
< have left Paris^ and march'd off, either out of the
' Kingdom, or at lead out of the City where he
' was fo well known, and fo diligently purfued, I
* had carried him fafe off. ' But he was obftinately
and inconfiderately bold > and the Devil is not bound
to fave thofe that refolve they will be hang'd. Nay,
if am not mifinformed, the Devil himfelf told him,
he would be taken if he flaid in Paris \ and added,
that the Search after him was fo hot, and fuch
Rewards promifed, and he fo well known, that if
he, Satan himfelf, was fo perfeftly defcribed, and
fo hotly purfued, he fhould certainly be difcover'd.
Tho' by the way, I would have you take that Part
only ad referendum^ as the Men of Bufinefs call it.
Now it is an unreafonable thing that Men fhould
make a Bargain with either Man or Devil for more
than they are able to perform, and then pretend to
blame them for Non-Performance j and therefore
a certain noble Lord, now in Exile, (whom they
charge with contrading with Satan for fome Parti-
cular, in favour of his late Dumhlane Enterprife,
and which the Devil has, it feems, faiPd him in)
ought not, as they fay he does, to blame the De-
vil^ who really could do no more for him than he did.
G 4 Having
88 A S Y S T E M
Having then brought it to this Conclufion, that
the Devil has been really firft in the Confederacy,
that Satan made the Acquaintance, and that Man
neither knew how to come at the Devil^ nor fo
much as knew originally that there was any fuch
thing as a Devil in Being, it would add to our more
perfeft underflanding of the whole Matter, if we
could be informed in what manner the Acquain-
tance begun.
The firfl; Attack the Devil made upon our Mo-
ther Eve^ we have had fully defcribed. Sacred Hi-
Hory relates the Fa6tj and honed:, grave Mr. Milton
has given us the Particulars as dillmdly, and in as
lively Colours, as if he had been at the Conference,
heard the Courtfhip, and how cunningly the Devil
managed > with what Addiefs he iniinuated into her
wcakeft Part, and how entirely he conquer'd her
Virtue, her Obedience, her Senfe of Religion,
brought her to forget the Command that fhe had
but juft learned to remember j and to facrifice her
Soul, and all her Pofterity, to her Appetite: I fay,
Mr. Milton has done it in fo lively a manner, that
it feems plain, that tho' Solomon could not under-
Hand the way of a Man with a Maid, but placed
it among the things that were too wonder-
ful for him y Milton feems not to be at a Lofs to
defcribe the way of the Devil with a Woman,
Now, I fay, we have a diftind Account how
the Devil made the firft Attack upon Eve in Pa-
radife^ but how he picked Acquaintance with the
Sons of A^c^Z? after the Deluge, and in what man-
ner, or upon what Occafion that was begun, we
are utterly at a lofs about.
Nor have we any hiHorical Account who were
the Perfons who entertained the fiiil Correfpon-
dence with him, or upon what Occafion 5 nothing
appears upon Record to give us the leaft Light
into it, other than this, that we find the EtFefts of
of M A G I C K. 8p
an Invifible De'vil in Ham or Cbam^ one o? Noah's
Sons, and in Canaan his Grandfonj hue ic is not
the invifible Devil that I am enquiring after, but an
appearing converfible Dxmon or Evil Spirit, who
alTuming human Shape, or at lead Voice, and in-
telligible Operations, could fupply the Office of the
De'vil in aflifting Mankind in the fevcral Exigencies
of their Affairs, when any kind of infernal Work
was upon their Hands.
This, I fay, is the Devil I am enquiring after
>
and as I would fain bring Mankind and him to be
acquainted together in a decent and regular man-
ner, I mud confefs I am at a great Lofs for want
of the Particulars, as well of Perfons, as of the Cir-
cumftances in which thofe Perfons were concerned.
However fince that Part cannot be entred any
farther into, or at leaft not fo far as to make a full
Diicovery, we muft take up with fo much as we
find upon Record, and this may perhaps be enough
to fatisfy us that fo it was.
The Story of Job^ according to the facred Chro-
nology, and by comparing it with other Accounts
of things, appears to be very antientj even fo old
as to be in a very few Years after Abraham -y for
Eliphaz the femanite could not, by Calculation, be
many Removes from Efau^ and I/hmael-y and Job be-
ing at that Time an old Man, no lefs than a hundred
Years old, he might probably be alive within the
time o^Japhet^ one of the Sons of Noah y for 'tis
thought Job was above a hundred Years old when
his firft Sorrows came upon him.
Now in the time of Job^ 'tis evident the Devil
had made his vifible Appearances upon Earth, and
among the Sons of GOD too i for he appeared
before the Lord at the time, as is fuppofed, of a
folemn Service or Sacrifice. What his Bufinefs was
there, and on what Occafion he came, does not lie
before me oji the prcfent Occafion.
7 In
po A S Y S T E M
In the next place, the Devil not only had pcr^
fonally appeared, but it feems plain from the Text,
when God had given Job into his Hands, that is to
fay, had given him Commiflion to fall upon and af-
flid him, and that he was gone out from the Pre-
fence of God, that he immediately fet his humaa
as well as elementary Inflruments at work j that he
raifed a Storm of Wind, from or in the Wilder-
nefs, and blew the Houfe down upon Johh Sons
and Daughters \ that he brought Thunder and
Lightning upon the Flocks, and burnt up the poor
Sheep, and the Servants that look'd after them:
This was nothing but what, as a Devil and a Prince
of the Air, might be expelled from him: but that
was not all ; he raifed War upon him j the Chaldeans
from one fide, (the North) and the Sahsans from ano-
ther fide, (the Eaft) made out their Armies and came
upon him,andpiundcr'd him 5 the firfl carried away
the Camels, and the other the Oxen.
'Tis certain thofe Nations were at Peace with
Job before, and his Servants fed unmolefted by them
and in their Neighbourhood, 'till the Devil took
upon him to break the Peace, and excite them to
infult Job and fall upon his Subflancc. How came
this to pafs 3 and what had Job done to any of
them, to move them 'to ufe Violence with him? I
make no queflion but the Devil went to them, and
told them God had fent him to order them in his
Name to ravage the Lands and carry away the
Goods of Job -J,
that God had deflined him to Mi-
fery and Poverty, and had given his Eflate to them,
and therefore it was lawful for them to fall upon
and deftroy him and his Family 5 and to give them
a Sign, as I faid before, and that they might know
he came with a CommifHon, they ihould fee he
would go and fend down Fire from Heaven and de-
ftroy his Sheep > and if they would not carry off the
Camels and the Oxen, he would do the like by thofe
alfb. This3
of M A G I C K.
This, and the Bait of Plunder, was enough to ani-
mate thofe Nations againfl poor Joh^ and fo they
came immediately and did as the BqvU dire6tcd.
This feems to me to be the firft vifible Appea-
rance of the Devil among the Sons of Noah^ in the
Poft-diluvean Ages. I will not fay his Acquaintance
begun here, tho' if I fhould fuppofe it did, I do not
fee that I could be contradidcd by any authcntick
Vouchers from Hiftory. Indeed it was a plaufible
Occafion enough, for it was apparently a Favour
beflowed on the Saheans and on the Chaldeans^ to
give them Job's Goods meerly for fetching : and
this, for ought we know, may be the Reafon that
the firft Magicians that we read of any where,
were among thofe two Nations, 'viz. Chaldeans
^nd (Jrabiam) Saheans -y nor can I doubt but that the
Devil having made his Acquaintance firft here, kept
his Hold and Intereft amongft them upon account
of the good Offices he had done them, and perhaps
might do them on many other Occafions.
Now, tho' I would not be poficive where there
is the leaft Uncertainty, being mighty cautious (as
I am at prefent afting in the Capacity of an Hi-
ftorian)of doing the Devil any Wrong or Injury 5 fo
I enter my Caveat too againftanObjecSbion here,'i;/z.
that if this be not the firft time that any Man gives
an Account of Satan's Appearance, and that this
was not the firft of his Pranks which he played
upon Mankind after the Flood, let them fhew us
another before it, if they cans i^ay, I believe the
Devil himfelf cannot tell us any one Time or Place,
or any other Occafion, on which he ever fhowed
himfelf, or perhaps durft ihow himfelf, in a vifible
Appearance in the World, I mean after the De-
luge.
Nor is it eafie to be determined, what Shape,
what Cafe of Flefti and Blood, or (as I might fay
with more Propriety) what fceming Flelli and
Blood
A S T S r E M
Blood he appear'd drefs'd in at that timej nor will
I take upon me to guefs what Figure he made,
•when he appeared among the Sons of God, and
whether ihcy knew him or not 5 that is to fay,
knew who he was, and on what occafion he ap-
pear'd there > whether Job was among them or nor,
(for he was doubtlefs one of the Sons of God, and
the Text owns him as fuch j my Servant Joh\ for
Son. and Servant I take there to have the fame Sig-
nification j) and whether the fhort Difcourfe which
it is faid there the Lord held with the Arch-Ene-
my of his Servant was audible and articulate, and
whether the reft heard it or no j all thefe Difficul-
ties I leave, as the Learned fay, to another Oppor-
tunity, that is to fay^ bccaufe I am not able to fay
one Word to them at this.
CHAP. IV.
Of what Shades the Devil affiimd in his firfi
Appearances to the Magicians, and others^
in the F'trfl Ages of the World \ and whe-
ther He isy or has been^ allowed to ajfume a
Human Shape^ or no.
AS I have ingenuoufly acknowledged in my laft
Chapter, that 1 can give you no Account of
what Drefs or Shape the Devil appear'd in, when
he prefented himfelf among the Sons of God, as
noted in the firll Chapter of Job^ or whether he
was vifible to any elfe but his Maker 5 fo I am
equally uncertain in what Figure he made his firft
Appearances afterwards, among his own Acquain-
tance and Servants, when he was introduced.
It mufl therefore fuffice to tell you, that how-
ever it v/as manag'd, w^e find there was certainly
an
of M A G J C K, |,g
an Intelligence carry'd on, a Corrcfpondencc main-
rain'd, and what was not perform'd PeiTonally,
was done by Inchantmcnts, which we call Sorcery;
by Voices and by Dreams, or by Apparition in
fiich Shapes and Poflnres, as Satan, for Reafons of
State, thought fit to take upon himfelf for the
Occafion.
Some have doubted, whether the Devil is em-
power'd to take up any human Shape, or to appear
in the Figure of a Man; and they argue that it does
not feem confiftcnc with the Goodncfs of the great
Father of Mankind, to fuffer the Arch-Enemy of
his Creatures to go about in fuch a Difguife, fo
dangerous, and that might be fo fatal to him^ for
that he would be always in danger of being de-
ceived to his Hurt, that he could never be fafej
but that as the Scripture diredts us to be courteous
to Strangers, becaufe fome by being fo had enter-
tain'd Angels ; fo ic would make us be ihy, and a-
fraid of Strangers, for that we fhould be always afraid
we might receive the Devil into our Houfes, and
efpeciaily into our Friendfhip, and Familiarity.
And hence I believe came the foolifh em.pty No-
tion, tho' fuch as it is impcfHble to root out of the
Fancies of Men, viz. that the Devil cannot ap-
pear without his ck)ven Foot; of which I fhall fay
nothing here, but that it is a thing fo ridiculous as
to merit no Notice, either now or at any other
time.
Tho' there may be many things Hiid for this Opi-
nion, and particularly to that Part which relates to
the Safety of Mankind, in cafe of the feveral Dif-
guifcs that the Devil may appear in, yet I cannot
exclude the Devil from the Privilege of patting
on our Clothes fomctimes, and that too perhaps oft-
ner than we may think he does; and that he appears
in fuch a Shape too, oftner than we may believe he
does. As to the Danger of it I may fpcak of than
by it felf. I
5>4 A SYSTEM
I have taken it for granted in my lafl Chapter,
that in the firft Acquaintance between Mankind
and the Evil Spirir, after the Deluge, Satan was the
AggrefTor J
that he made his Application to them
firft, made his Propofals of Affillance and Help, in
the Cafes wherein he knew they wanted his Cor-
refpondencej and I ihall add, that he perhaps
rais'd difficult perplex'd Cafes in the World, on
purpofe to prepare the Way for his rendring him-
felfufefuL
We are come now to the Manner, I mean How#
and in What Way the cunning Manager made his
firft Addrefs to Mankind. It is true, we are
fomething deficient in the Hiflory of this firft
Tranfadion, becaufe we do not yet know, nor
can eafily find out, who was his firft Correfpon-
dent in the World 5 but if you will take what has
been, by what is, and judge of his firft Method,
by his fubfequent Pra6tice, 1 think I may give you
room to make a fair Judgment. Nor do I think
'tis an improper way of determining the Point,
fince as Satan found the firft Step fuccefsful, 'tis pro-
bable he found no occafion to alter his Meafures;
and tho' differing Circumftances of Place and Per-
fons may make him vary a little as he fees Occa-
fion, yet I have I think a great deal of reafon to
fuppofe that the general rule of his Pradice is much
the fame, and that he proceeds upon the fame foot
with Mankind in all t\gtz^ and on all Occafions,
mutatis mutandis^ as he finds the Circumftances of
the People the fame, or not the fame.
Take then the DeviPs firft Method with Man-
kind to be grounded upon his ovm Experience in
his Antediluvean Practices with their Anceftorsj
upon his Knowledge of their Prefent Circum-
ftances, I mean Prefent at the time after the Flood,
you muft allow Satan to have fo much Cunning ia
him, as to be able, without the leaft Hefitation, to
know
of M A G I C K. 5>y
know what was the beft Method to come about
the Man, and how to compafs him> and for that
reafon, I fay, I do not allow him to have made any
Change in his Meafures.
The firfl Method then, that I fuppofe the
Devil took to make hi5; Acquaintance with Man-
kind was by the way of Dreams 5 and here I fliall
go back fo far as to fuggcft, that he put Canaan^
Noah'% Grandfon, upon intoxicating the good Patri-
arch his Grandfather with Wine: for I join with a
late Opinion, that it was Canaan^ not //"^w, that was
the Occaiion of it 5 tho' Ham was guilty of trium-
phing over the old Man, when he was overcome,
and expofing him, as far as lay in him, to his mode-
ller Brethren.
Suppofe then young C^»^,^» very bufy, helping and
aflifling his GrandhrJi.-i, in planting and dreffing
the Vines after the Flood, and in gathering the
Fruit} take then the following Obfervations upon
thofe Circumftances in particular.
Firjl^ I cannot come into that foolifh Notion,
that Noah did not underltand the Nature of the
Vine, or the Srrengeh of the Juice, when the
Grapes were prefs'd, and the Wine ran out, and that
he drank it ignorantly^ I fay, I cannot come into
that Opinion : For Noah^ who had no doubt preach'd
againft the Vices of the Antediluvian World, and
againft Drunkennefs among the reft, muft certainly
know the Ufe of the Vine, and the Abufe of it
tooj how oi^t did he come to plant it at all, and
to prefs the Juice out for Drinking it at all ?
Gen. ix. 20. Noah began to he an Husbandman^ and
he planted a Vineyard.
z I . u^nd he drank of the Wine^ and was drunken.
Secondly., It does not feem, that the time o^ Noah^s
Drunkennefs was upon the preffing of the Gripes,
or the prefling the firft Grapes of his new Planta-
tion 3 ic muft certainly be a confiderable time after
his
5<J A S r S T E M
Ms planting them, and after his firfl making of
Wine. For tho' 'tis very probable that he planted the
Vine^ immediately after the Flood, and the Text
feems to intimate as much > yet 'tis evident it muft
b< many Years after that, when he fell into the
fnare of Drunkcnnefs. For Canaan^ who was then
a Man grown, was not Born at the coming out
cf the Ark^ and there muft be at leaft twenty
or thirty Years between that time and the Fa6t.
For if Canaan had not been Major, had not been
at Man's Eftatc, he would not in probability have
been curs'd by his Grandfather, as a Principal in
the Crime, as it is evident he was : For it does not
feem (hat he was curfcd fo particularly, as an Ac-
ccfTary only, or for the meer Offence of his Fa-
ther, nor would it have been Righteous in Noah
to have done fo. But as he is fo warmly fallen up-
on, and {o particularly by the old Patriarch, in his
Anathema^ 'tis very probable he was a Principal in
the Fa6t of abufing him.
Suppofe then, J fay, young Canaan bufy in af-
fifting his Grandfather in planting and drefling the
Vines, and in prefling the Fruit > the Devil takes
this for a Handle, and fubtly makes Canaan
dream. (For I'll grant, with Mr. Milton^ that the
Devil had, from the Beginning, the Art of whif-
pering to him in his Sleep, as that Author makes
him do to Eve in Paradife, and thereby making
him dream of any thing he pleas'd.) Take him then
whifpcring to Canaan^ that he fhould make his
Grandfather drunk with the Wine, and that he
ihould be able to do what he pleas'd with him
ever after j infinuating, that the EfFe6b of it would
be to make his Grandfather have a greater AfFe6bi-
on to hmi than to any of the reft of his Grand-
children. This is not improbable, becaufe the De-
vil always Tempts with the Expc6lation of fome
apparent Good.
Others
of M A G I C A. 5,7
Others fuggeft, that Noah having reprov'd and
reproach'd Canaan for Tome Crimr, and perhaps
cau^'d him ro be corre6ted for it, the Devil cook
hold of his Refenrment, (which, by the wiy, is not
much iinhke a Devil,) and proposM this method of
Revenge t^ him in a Dream j as if he had dream'd
that he hid prcvaiTd over his Grandfath-r, by per-
fuadmg him to dr-nk himf If drunk, and had there-
by made him expofe himfelf in a beaftly manner,
'till he became the Ridicule and Jeft of the whole
Family, which by that time was very numerous 3 and
that Canaan^ pleafcd with the lively Reprefentation
of his Grandfather's Shame, refclv'd (the Devil
prompting him to it in other fubfequent Dreams)
if poffible, to give himfelf the Sacisfa(5lion of
bringing it to paf?, and to perfuade the old Maa
to drink himfelf Drunk, the next time he came to
affift him in the Bufinefsj and that accordingly he
did fo, and prevailed
.
Whether Satan did it thus, or by any other me-»
thod of Infinuation, we are not furcj but it is very
probable it was by a Dream : Nor is it clear to me,
that the Devil had ever any other way but by
Dream or Apparition, to come at the intelligent
Faculties of Man. 'Tis evident he does fuggeft
Evil} now he mufl do it fleeping, or wakings if
fleeping, it muft be by a Dream, in which he docs
but imitate the good Spirit, which, as the Scripture
fays plainly, and gives a multitude of Inftances of
it, opens the Underftandings of Men m the Night
Vifions, and feals their Inftruflions: Nor is it a
new Pra6fcice of Satan to mimick and imitate his
Maker, in the Meafures and Operations of his
Wifdom v/ith Mankind.
But be that as it will, we are fiu'e the Devil does
communicate his malicious Propofals of Mifchief
to Mankind 3 you have two eminent Examples of
H it
A SYSTEM
It in Scripture, which are too plain, and too dircft
to my purpoie here, to admit any Difputej firft, in
the Cafe of David^ and his Projed of numbring the
Poeple, 'ris fiiidexprefly, i C hron.xxi. i. Satan ?noved
David to number the People. "W here, bythe way, tho' it
was his Sin, yet by it we gain a piece of Information,
how prodigioufly populous the Tribes were at
that time, *viz. that there were fifteen hundred and
feventy thoufand fighting Men in only ten of the
Tribes > an mcredible Number to inhabit fo fmall a
Spot of Ground as the Land of Canaan^ befides
Women and Children : But that by the way.
The fecond Example, which renders it out of all
doubt that Satan has Accefs to the Thoughts of
Men, is that of Judas^ John xiii. i. S^tanput it into the
Neart of Judas to betray Chrift. Now, I fay as above,
tiiis mull be done deeping, or waking j if fleeping,
it muft be by Dreams > if waking, it mud be by
Voice, PofTeffion, or Apparition. We fhall coniidcr
them ail in their Place.
It is probable that the firft Method the Devil
took in the World was by Dream > as for Poflef-
fion, we do not meet with it very early; as to Voice
and Apparition, we take them to be all fubfequent,
and the Effe6b of a long Acquaintance : as i.naong
Men there are fevcral degrees of Communiciirion
with one another, after Men have a Perfonal Knov/-
ledge and Acquaintance, before it conies up to //;//-
mcicy and FrierJJhtp.
Dream then being the firft way of Accefs, or by
which the Devil found the way into the Manj
there is no room to doubt but by this Method he
found means alfo to infufe into his Mind an infi-
nite Variety of corrupt Imaginations, wicked De-
fires, and abhorred Conclufions and Refoliitions,
with fome ridiculous, fooliih, and abfurd things at
the fame time.
Thus
of M A G I C K. 95,
Thus I cannot think but the Devil firft put it
into the Hearts of the Men of the old World to
go about that ridiculous piece of Work (as I obferv'd
it to be before) (^f building of Babel -y firfl by fill-
ing their Thoughts with daily Terrors and Appre-
henfions of another Inundation, thronging their
fleepmg Imaginations with Fancies of new Rains to
overflow them 5 by which, every time they had
any hafty Showers which raised the Water of the
Rivers or Brooks to what we call a Land-Flood,
they would be immediately alarm'd as if another
Deluge was a coming upon them, and that they were
immediately to be drown'd.
Thus railing the Vapours in their Hypocon-
drias, they were every Night dreaming that they
heard it Thunder, that they faw heavy Rains, and
that the Brooks and Rivers fwell'd, or as we fay
in our common Difcourfe on fuch Occafions, the
Waters were out-y in Confequence of this, he purs
them upon confidering of Means for their own Se-
curity, and then they dream every Night of Me-
thods: One while they are for building another
Ark, another time for building a Thoufand, that
is to fay, an Ark for every Family, or Patriarchate^
or Tribe 3 one time this foolilli thing, and ano-
ther time that 5 and perhaps many Men dreaming
!
on many feveral Methods, till at lafl: they bring
i their lleeping Cogitations to a waking Confukation 5
I and there they refolve upon the meaneit, empiyefl:,'
\ and mod inconfillent Projeft, that ever any Body
i' of Men formM in their Heads: And which, if the
i
"'Devil had not been in them, and drawn them into
;i it, as I fay, meerly to impofe upon, and expofe
them even to their own Ridicule, could never
'have come into their Heads, I mean the Building
of BabeL
H z If
ioo A S Y S T E M
If the Devil did excite that foolifh Imagination,
he nnuii: do it as he was a meer Devil, to lliow
his Malice, to put them upon doing fome-
thing extremely Ridiculous, and which fliould at
lad expofe them to their own Refentments on the
Madnefs and Folly of it 5 or, which 1 rather think,
he bewilder'd their Imaginations, without any im-
mediate Profpe<5l, other than this, that he knew it
would end in fome ridiculous Undertaking, either
very foolijh^ or very wicked -y not knowing which it
would be, and perhaps not much caring, (b it
would be but provoking to their Maker, and what
niight any way bring his Difpleafure upon them.
And here, by the way, I cannot but obferve, that
the Method, God in his Providence was pleas'd to
take with Mankind, upon their entring upon that
foolilh Piece of Work, was the mildcft and kindeft
that could be imagin'd, and the mod to their In-
tereft, calculated for their Good, evidently iiTuing
fo j and that much more than letting them go on in
their Madnefs would have been.
Had Heaven thought fit to have wink'd at the
audacious Attempt, and to have let them go on
v/ith it, as far as their own Ignorance and Obfti-
nacy would have guided them, 'till by the immenfe
Circle of the firft Stages of the Building they had
form'd an Afcent higher than any thing of its kind
could be fuppos'd to Hand j yet they mult have ftop'd
^
at lad, it mud have ended fomewherej the time
would have come at length, that as they had call'd
a Council about the nrft Building of it, they would
have call'd another, with a go to now^ fhall we leave
off this mad Piece of Work.? that as they had ad-
vis'd with one another, faying Go to^ let us Bulld^
Q^x\. xi. 4. fo they would have faid, Go to^ let us
leave off Building.
Sup-
of MA G I C K. loi
Suppofc them to have found the Way up to tlie
Regions above the Atmofphere, of where elfe you
can imagine 5 and that they then found rhemfelves
as much remote from Heaven, whither they had
proposM the Tower fhould reach, as they were at
firftj and that among the other Milchiefs they had
met with, fuch as the Difficulty of carrying Ma-
terials fo high, and the Difficulty of breathing,
t^c. they had alfo begun to difcover chat their
Work was fruitlefs, and would be-eadlefs, as mud
have been the Cafe, they would certainly have given
it over at iall, and with Indignation at thcmielves,
perhaps at one another, have laid it alide.
What a piece of Folly would the fruitlefs Toil
have been, how would they have reproach'd them-
felves and perhaps falling our, and going together
by the Ears about it, the Vi<51:ors would have made
the Vanquifh'd pull it down, and carry away
the Materials, that the Monument of their Shame
might be removed out of their Sight. The firfl,
that is, leaving off the Work, I fay, mud have hap-
pened at laftj the other it was very likely would
have happened J fo that 'tis out of doubt Heaven
a(51:ed the kindeft Part for them, by confounding
their Speech, to make the going on with it im-
pradricable, fo bringing them to a Neceffity of
laying it afide, before they had carried it on too
far.
Having thus, with a rational Profpefi", proposed
the firlt Method of Satan's makini.> his Acquain-
tance with Mankind, and fo brought him to a Scene
of A61:ion> 'tis very rational to fiiggeft, that he
began the Method very early 5 and therefore thofe
two Experiments of Canaan^ and the Builders of
Babel^ are not improper to mention, as they feem
to be things which Mankind had never attempted,
if the Devil had not put them upon its nor had
H } the
lOi A SYSTEM
the Devil at that time any other way to bring it to
pafs but by Dreams, at leaft not as we know of.
It may alfo be obfcrv'd, that the firil: Convcrfe of
Mankind with the invifiblc World, whether witfe
the evil Spirits, or with the Good, or even with
their Maker himfelF, was by Dreams > and therefore
it is not improbable that Satan made his Applica-
tion to them the fame way : We have it very early
mentioned, Gen. xv. i . ^he Word of the Lord came to
jihram in a Fifion^ that is a Dream ; and again, A
deep Jleep fell upon Abram^ and lo a horrour of great
Darknefs fell upon him^ a%d he faid unto him —
•
ver. li, 15.
It is infome particular Texts fiid the Lordappeared
to Ahram^ which if interpreted by other Places^
mull be underftood to be in a Dreams fo^* in thofc
Places, when God conversed by Apparition with
Ahram^ or call'd to him by Voice, it is diftinguifh'cj
cxprefly in fo many Words, that God faid -y and
Godi %vent up from talking with Ahram , and tha
Lord appeared to him in the Door of his 'Tent ) and
the like.
As God himfelf took this Method with Ahram^
and fo with Mofes^ and fo with many others, both
before and fince3 fo the Devil found means to
make his Addrefs to Mankind by the fame way.
Hence v/e find a mighty great Strefs laid uponfome
of the Dreams of the Ancients in thofe Daysj and
much ado was made about the Interpretation of
them : For when once a Man of Note had drcam'd
any Important Dream, any Dream which feem'd
to have fomething extraordinary in it, away
they went to their Cunning Men, their Southfayers
and Magicians^ ro enquire of them the Meaning and
Interpretation of rhcfe Dreams.
Now br ng all tbcfe Circum (lances together, and
you will find the Devil fubtily infinuating Dreams
f
'
'
'
into
of M A G 1 C K, 103
into the Heads of Princes and Great Men, and
then by like Dreams cnmmunicating to his Cor-
refpondents thofe very Dreams, and what Interpre-
tations ihey lliould make of them.
This was a particular Favour done in Aid of
thofe Magicians^ who were more than ordinarily in
his good Graces 5 and no doubt it gave them a particu-
lar Reputation at Court,, and in the Opinion of the
People > as having a more than ordinary Underflanding
in hidden Matters, or having a very particular In-
telligence in the fccret and referv'd Part of Nature,
or a Correfpondcncc in the World of Spirits,
AU Albrahazen^ a Perfian Wizard, had douSrleis
this Intercourfe with the Devil, if what I have to
fay of him is true. He was, it fcems, a Sahian by
Birth, and had obtained a wonderful Reputation for
his Witchcraft J the fame which I fwppofc the
Scriprure calls Inchantments, in the Cafe of the
Alagicians o^ JEgyPt^ v/hen Mofes and Ajvoa came to
work Miracles before Pharaoh j he, you may fuppofe,
was fent for by the King of Perjia upon fome ex-
traordinary Occaiion, fuch as the Interpretation
of a Dream, or of fome Apparition like that of Bel^
JIjazzar\ Hand-v/riting, or fome Meteor or Eel ypfe,
and he never failed to give them great Satisfa&ion
on fuch Occafions. For whether his Accounts were
true or falfc, he always delivered them in fuch
ambiguous Terms, that fomething of what he pre-
dicted might be fure to be deduc'd from his Words,
and fo fecm to Import that he had effeftually re-
vealM it, whether he had really done fo or not.
This ////, (fo Fame tells you,) being in
the Defart wandering by himfelf, and mufing
much upon the Appearance of a certain Fiery
Meteor, which had, to the great Terror of all the
Country, been feen every Night for twenty or
thirty Nights fucceflively j was mighty defirous
H 4 to
104 A S r S T E M
to underftand the Meaning of ir, and what it
{hould Portend to the World > but being utterly
incapable to make the lead pi o'^able Guefs at the
Thing, the Reafon or Nature of* it, much lefs its
Import or Meanings he fat him down under a
Palm-tree, weary with his Travelling, and his
Mind alfo lyr'd and weary'd with fruitlefs and unper-
fo min^ Imaginations J Here he vehemently wilh'd
th.uiome attending Spirit would be fo abiding to his
Fancy, that he might at leaft make fome probable
Conje£i:urcs at the true Meaning of that (Irangc
Thienomenon\ and alfo at what might probably be
the IfRie and Event of it to the World.
With this very warm and importuning Defire he
fell afleep, and bemg in a deep Sleep he dream'd
that a tall Man came to him, of a venerable maje-
jeftic Alpedt, bat with a pleafing and chearful
Smile on his Facej and calling him by his Name,
told him, that he was come at his Requeft to an-
fwer his Importunities j and that he would tell him
the Signification of the Great and Terrible Fire in
the Air, which was \^z\\ in his City, and in all
AtMa and Perfta.
And now, fays he, you fhall underftand that thefe
fiery Appearances are nothmg but certain Colle6ti-
ons of Matter exhaled by the Influence of the Sun
from the Earth or Sea, or perhaps from other folid
Bodies in the Compafs of the Solar Syftem, fuch
as the Planets and other Bodies, which you in this
Earth know nothing of.
Thefe being fet on Fire, in their wandering*^o-
tlon appear like Stars or Comets for a time, being
driv^en about in the Expanfe by the Impetuofity of
their own Motion* and become vifible in this He-
mifphere to the mfinite Terror of the People, as
thou feeft it now is; tho' thofe Apprehenfions and
ihdiX Amazenaen: of the People are very ground-
*lef^^
of M A G 1 C K. loy
lefs, and raifed only from their own Folly and Ig-
norance.
For as to the Imporrance of them Co human Af-
fairs, the truth 15, AU^ and you are to be undeceiv'd
in that Point, they have no Import or Significa-
tion at all, other than that fometimes by their near
Approach to the Earth, and by their A'.tra61:ion,
or by their Diffipation of moift Vapours they oc-
cafion fometimes great Drought, and infupportablc
Hear 3 and at other times diltilling great and un-
ufual Rains, by condenfing in an extraordinary
manner the Vapours, which by their acquired Heat
they have exhaled.
Ali was furpriz'd at this Account; and being en-
couraged to fpeak, he reply'd, But what fhall I an-
fwerto my People, who ex pe6t great things from me?
I have often fatisfy'd them in like Difiiculrics, buc
when Ifhallcometo tell them that it fignifies nothing
at all, that it is only the effe6l of a natural Caufe,
and is of no Import more than an ordinary Starj
they will ftone me, and fay, that Heaven never
hangs out fuch Signals, without feme Significa-
tion; that I only impofe upon them, becaulc
I am Ignorant, and do not underltand the Motions
and Intimations of the Heavenly Bodies, or how
the Affairs of this World are influenced by them.
O Ali^ O Jlbrahazen^ highly favour'd ! faid the Ap-
parition; I will infl:ru6t thee then how to prevent
thy being dcfpis'd by the Elders of thy People, on
Condition that thou wilt now, and on all Occafi-
ons, give ear to my Inftrudtions, and follow thofc
Rules that I fhall fet thee.
To this he readily aflented, and made fuch AiTu-
rances as were fuisfa6tory to the Speftre. Go then,
fays the Vifion, and warn thy Nation, that this
Fiery Meteor Portends an cxceflive Drought and
Famine; for know thou, that by the ftrong exhal-
ing •
io6 A S Y S r E M
ing the Vapours of the Earth, which is occafion'd
by the Meteor's unufual nearncfs to this Hemi-
fphere, the neceflary Rains will be withheld, and by
a long Drought thou knoweft Famine and Scarcity
of Corn fucceeds of courfe. Thus by judging ac^
cording to the Rules of Natural Caufes, thou fnalt
predid what ihall certainly come to pafs, and (halt
obtain the Reputation which thou fo earneftly de-
fireft, to wir, of a Sage Magician and wife Man,
But, fays ^//, and what {hall I fay to the Lords
of the Pcrftan Court, who have fent for me, to en-
quire of ms on the fame Phtenomenon ? what fhall it
Portend to that Nation ? will the fame Fate be the
Confequcnce to their Country, as is portended to
this ?
To this the fubtle Devil anfwcrs: This Inquiry
is to thee of the utmoftConfequence. Fiery Meteors
fometimes from the fame Natural Caufes produce
juft contrary Events 5 and whereas thefe Bodies, as
1 faid, exhale an infinite Quantity and Bulk of Va-
pours, which they rarifie by their Heat, and fa
caufe immoderate Drought and Heat in fuch and
fuch Climates, and particular Countries, where
they approach too near j fo on the other hand they
are in ihemfelves vaft Colle6bions of humid and wa-
tery Vapours, which if haflily condens'd would
be fufficient to deluge the World, and drown Man-
kind > and fometimes they condenfe in fo confide-
rable Quantiiics, as to defcend upon the Earth, and
caufe exceflive Rains and Floods, and great Defo-
lations of the Country. Go then fearlefs, fays he,
to the Perfian Court, and Predid to them cxcef-
five Rains and Floods, which fhall greatly hurt the
Fruits of the Earth, and occasion great Dearth alfo.
Thus, if either of thefe fucceed, as it is moft pro-
bable, thou ilialt be ailurcdlyreceiv'd as a SageA/i«-
gidan in one Country, if not in the other: Alfo to
both
of M A G 1 C K. 107
both thefe thou mayft fuggeftjas a Probability only,
the Conicqucnce of cheie to be a Plague, or In-
fe6lion among the People, which is ordinarily the
EfFed as well of excefTive Wet, as of cxcefllve
Hcaf, if this happens, thou fhalt gain the Re-
putation thou defireftj and if not, feeing thou didlt
not pofitivcly foretel it, thou ihaknot inear the Ig-
nominy of a falfe Predidlor.
This was very obliging in the Devil, it mud be
confefs'd, if the Story be true 5 and j^li was very
feniible of the Help it was to him, and fail'd not
to ask the Vifion how he {hould obtain his pro-
mised Afliftance in the like Cafes of Difficulty.
Upon which the Vifion told him, that whenever
he wanted his Help, he fliould come again to the
Palm-tree, and that furrounding the T«ee fifteen
times, he fhould call him aloud by his Name three
times, every time he went round the Tree> and at
the end of the fifteenth time he fliould find Sleepi-
nefs come upon him, when he fhould lay himfelf
down as he did now, with his Face to the South j
and if he fell afleep, he fhould be fare to receive a
Vifit from him in Vifion : and with this he gives
him theMagick Name which he was to call him by,
^It was infinitely exalted with the thoughts o^
this Information, which let him fo much into the
Secret of Nature, as to enable him to fpeak in a
Diale6c infinitely fuperior to the common Undcr-
ftanding, and in particular to make a Judgment of
things, out of the reach of the mofi: Pretending of
the reft of his fellow Magicians. When he went
home among the People, he fail'd not tagive his
Judgment of the terrible Appearance in the Air,
and told them pofitively it portended a great
Drought and Heat in the approaching Summer
j
to which he added, as a Suggeltion only, that he
had great reafon to believe it would be attended
with
10 g A S r S T E M
with a Famine, and perhaps the Famine might be
follow'd with a Plague > infinuating, that if the
Famine was not attended with a Plague among his
own Countrymen, as he had faid it would, it was
then likely it would appear firft in Perfta^ their
Neighhouring Kingdom, and perhaps it might af-
terwards fpread among them.
This terrible Predidion, delisrerM with the Au-
thority of one whom they had the Venerable Opi-
nion of before as a Magician^ and one that could
foretel Events of things, gave the People an Alarm,
and alfo their King with them, to whom the
News of the Prediction was foon carry'dj but the
Magician conceal'd entirely from their Knowledge
the Manner of his obtaining his Information, fothat
it came to them on the fingle Authority of his own
Judgment.
: It happcn'd as a Confirmation of his Prediction,
that after rhe Meteor ccas'd to appear, and the
Spring Seafon advanc'd, an extreme hot Seafon
came on, with a long Drought follovving for feve-
ral Weeks, which began very much to burn up
the Fruits of the Earthy immediately the People
remembrin^ the Words of the Magician^ and find'
ing fo much of what he had faid prove true, it
put them in a great Confternation from the Ap-
prehcnfi >n of what, according to his Account, was
yet to follow.
It happened fome time after this, that the King
of the Country dreamed a Dream, which much
perplex'd him, and all the Magicians and Allrolo-
gers were fent for, to interpret the faid Dream; but
^^U was not fent for, which grieved him much,
thinking that he v/as notefteem'd enough among the
Princes of the Country, and that he fear'd his having
foretold the portentous Events of the late Meteor,
which were not yet dsiermin'd by the time that he
pre-
of M A G I C K 105,
predifted, he was negle<5led, as a Pcrfon that would
not give any good Incerpretation of the King's
Dream. However, when ^// faw that the Magi^
dans and Southravers, who were fent for, gave the
King no Satisfadion ; for they were confounded
in their Accounts, and difFer'd one from another,
and the King was To angry, that he was about to
command them all to be put to Death 5 with this
he was comforted again, and refolv'd to apply him-
felfto the Palm-tree, to fee if he could furniih him-
felf with any Inceljigencc fuitable to what he de-
fir'd> in which Cafe he would foon let the King
know, that though the reft of the Magicians could
not anfwer his Dcfire, he could fupply that Dz?tQ:%
and fo he ftiould gain more Reputation, than if he
had been fent for with the reft.
Upon this, he retires himfclf as ufual into the
Defart as before, and comes to the Spot where he
had the firft Vifion. Here he furrounds the Tree
fifteen times, and every time calls the Speftre by
his appointed Name three times over, and as loud
as his utmoft extended Voice would admits when,
according to DireiSli'on, he laid hirafelf down with
his Face to the South, (hut his Eyes, and obfequioufly
waited till he fell afleep, which was not lon^:
No fooner had his Senfes forfaken him, whetlier
doz'd with any infernal Charm or otherwife, the
Account does not fpecify: But, I fay, no fooner
was he afleep, but the Vifton appeared to his
Fancy, and asked him what was the Occafion of
his coming.
He anlwer'd, That the King had dreamed a
Dream, and had told it to the Magicians, whom he
fent for in order to have them interpret his Dream,
but that he had not been fent for, which was at firil
very grieving to him j but that upon further En-
quiry he found that the Magicians had given the
King
116 A s r S t E M
King no Satisfaaion 5 and that it had highly pro-
voked him, fo that he was going once to have
killed ihemall, and that now he was glad he was not
called 5 but that if he could now put him into a
Condition to interpret the King's Dream, it would
leftablifli his Reputation for ever, not with the
King only, but with the whole Country, for
that he was fure to be exalted to the higheft
Pitch of Honour that the King could give 5 and
befides, all the People would adore him as
one that had Intelligence among the Gods; fo
that he fiiould be had in the higheil Reverence
imaginable.
The Vifion aflured him that he could not only
qualify him to interpret the King's Dream, but that
he had made the King dream it on fet Purpofe to
to give him Occafion to interpret and explain it j
and fo he let him into the Particulars of what it
was the King had dreamed 5 and th^t the Dream
being thus direfted by him, he likewifc could di-
reft him to fuch an Interpretation as none but
himfelf could put upon it> and fo he at once
told him both what the King dreamed, and what
Interpretation he ftiould give of it 5 adding, that he
would yet do greater things for him than thofe j
for that if he had Occafion to recommend himfelf
to the King, or to any other Perfon of Note, he
would put it into his Power at any time, not only
to tell the King what his Dream fignified, but
fliould make the King Dream any thing that he
thought fir; fo that he fhould be able to fay to
the King, To-morrow Night a deep Sleep fliall
come upon you, and you ihall dream fo and fo,
which Dream fball portend fuch and fuch things
to you and your People.
uiU was exceedingly raifed in his Thoughts upon
fuch a Motion as this, and you will not wonder
that
of M A G I C K. Ill
that he cxprefled, tho' in his Sleep or Vilion, his
high Satisfadlion at fuch a Favour 5 and from that
time he entertained a conftant Correfpondence with
this Vifion or Apparition, not being aware, or per-
haps not concerned- that he was all this while con-
verfing with the Devil^ and that the new Friend-
ship he had engaged in, was neither lefs or more
than an immediate Correfpondence with Hell.
We have a Parallel Story to this, and almoffc of
the fame kind, of the Devil and an old Arahiayi
in the Court of a Pharaoh King of Mgypt^ upon
the Appearance of a Comet or Blazing Star, and
of which I {hall give an Account in its Place.
Nor was this any thing extraordinary in thofe
Times i 'twas natural to Satan's way of conver-
fing with Mankind, who had frequently midnight
Thoughts injcded to them by a fupernitural
Power, that is, by the evil Spirit, witl out their
knowing by what Hand they were injedbed 5 and
the Devil was able moft certainly to give the In-
terpretation of thofe Thoughts which he had been
the Occafion of.
This whole Affair, tho' remote in Time, I
give this Account of, to fuggeft from it the proba-
ble Method which Satan has taken from the Be-
ginning to inlinuate himfelf into Mankind j and, as
1 faid before, to begin the Acquaintance 5 which,
when once begun, he took particular Care to
cultivate to all the degrees of Intimacy poffibles
fo that in few Years, fuch People have been as in-
timate with the Devil^ tho' perhaps not thoroughly
knowing who it was they converfed with, as they
could defire to be.
By this Method he found Opportunities, upon all
Occafions, to bring Men to convcrfe freely and
fully with him J and as he often furnifhed them with
Materials and Subjcfts to amufe the reft of the
World
Mt. A S Y S r E M
World with, he was always able to oblige them ifi
the utmoft manner: feeing nothing could be more
to the Satisfa6tion of fuch People than the raifing
their Reputation in their Proftffion, and giving a
Sanftion or Confirmation to their Predidions.
I know it is doubted by many among the Learn-
ed, whether the Devil has himfclF any Knowledge
of Futurity, and whether he can pTedi6t or fore-
tell Events, or any thing future and to come 5 and
this very Vifion or Apparition, fuppofing it to be
true, verifies the Opinion 5 for he put the Alter-
native feveral times upon him, thai fo if he mils'd
giving a right Interpretation in one thing, he
might be fure in another 5 and if one Conjc£l:ure
Should mifs, another might hit, as you fee in the
Conflruftion of the appearing Body of Fire.
But the Quedion is needlefs here 5 for if it be
in the Devil's Power to injfft the Subje6t of a
Dream, and put Thoughts into the Heads ofthofe
that are afleep, 'tis then mod: certainly fo far in his
Power to give the Interpretation of thofe Thoughts
to whom he pleafes to grant fuch a Favour 5 feeing
the whole Scheme may be a meer Cheat and De-
lufion of the evil Spirit, on purpofe to form another
Delufion, namely, that of bringing in a Conjurer
or Dreamer of Dreams to interpret it. This is in-
deed a true Piece of the Legerdemain of Hell, and
it may be called, the Devil turned Juggler \ for *tis fa-
in the very Abftra6^, and nothing elfe.
All this is no great matter for Satan to do, if we
grant him only the Power of infufing Midnight
Thoughts into the Mind, which we have good
reafon to believe he is able enough to perform,
and yet have no great matter of Craft in him
neither, not fo much as we are ordinarily willing to
fuppofe the Devil is Mafter of. The Variety is in-
finite, that I might fuppofe the Devil is capable to
aa
of M A Q 1 C K. itj
kEt among his Difciples by this piece of Cunning,
if wc do but allow him fo much ; and I cannot
but fay 'tis very clear to nie, that the Devil has a
fecret Power to injeft innumerable things into our
Heads by Dream, and to make us dream almoft
what, and when he pleafes, fo as may beft ferve
his Occafions, and Ours too.
And his Advantages arc very great by this Fraud,
for be gives his Inllrument fuch an undoubted Re-
putation for a Revcalcr of Secrets arid art Interpre-
ter of Dreams, that nothing can be like it. Not
Daniel himfclf, who they faid had an excellent Spi-
rit, arid that the Spirit of the Holy Gods vas in
him, could do more 5 for by this Means, the South-
fayer would be able to tell the Dreamer what it
was he dreamed of, as well as what it fignified.
If any Man doubt that the Devil can, as I fay^
infufe midriight Thoughts, and whifper Suggefti-
onsby Dream of any kind to the Mind, I refer him
to My. Milton^ whofhews us the Devil in the Shape
of a Toad crept clofe to Eve^s Ear in her decpeft
Slumbers, and injedbing luftful or loofe and wandering
Thoughts into her cballe Mind, (Ifaychaftc, forfuch
it was without doubt before) and making her dream
with Pleafure of the Sin which he refolved to allure
her to commit the next Day, and fo prepare her
for the Crime, which till then her very Soul ab-
horred.
This granted^ arid the Devil being allowed fucK
an Advantage over Mankind, whether good or bad %
I cannot wonder either that he makes ufe of it at
all, or that he makes life of it in fuch a frequent
and extraordinary manner is to bewitch and in-*
fpire his Friends and Favourites : Nor that thofe
Friends or Favourites of his, whom he does thus
aflift, make fuch corrupt ufes of it as vl^e find they
do,^ for infinuating an Opinion' of themfelves into*
the Wotld : for we find prcfehtlj') when this Famt-
l liarity
JI4 A s r s r E M
liarity is once obtained with the Evil Spirit, and
they begin to a6t by his Inftruftion, the firft thing
they do is, to put a Fraud upon Mankind, and
make the World beUeve that all they did was from
Heaven J that they fpoke by Infpiration and Reve-
lation, and that their Intelligence was immediately
from the Gods> to fpeak in the Language of thofc
Times.
Thus ^^/^^»2 tells the King o£ Maah^ he eanfpea^
nothing but as God fhall command him> whereas
*tis plain, had not the Devil been reHrained fron^
direding him at that time, he would as heartily
have curfed Ifrael as he blefled them, and fo havr
gained the Rewards of his Office, which was the
Wages of Divination J but he eonfefles the Impo-
tency ofhis Art, when he found a Lock put upon his
Tongue, and the Key in the Hand of a fupream
Power V I fay, he confefTes the good Will he had
to the Reward, but the Weaknefs of his Black- Art
where Heaven interpofed its Power, Numb xxiii.
25. Surely there is no Incbantment againft Jacoh^ nei*
ther is there any Divination againjl Ifrael: intimating,
that he had tryed the utmoit of his Skill, but could
do nothings and in ver. zo. Behold I have received
commandment to blefs^ and he hath hleffedy and I can-
pot reverfe it : Nothing can be plainer. He vs^ould,
but the Devil and he together were not able to re-
verfe the Blefling. The only thing ftrange in this
Story o( Balaam is^ that God ihould thus fuffer a
Sorcerer and Inchanter, a Witch or Dealer with
the Devil^ to receive Commands from himfelf, and
to bid him go and do thus and thus, and to meet
him, and put into his Mouth what he ihould fay
on that Occafionv from whence fome might infi-
nuate, that the Wizards and Magicians of thofc
Days had a mutual or alternate Converfe, fome-
times really with God himfelf, and at other timest
with the Devil ', as if the Wretch were to day a
Ma»
f)f M A G I C K. iij
Man of God, and to-morrow a Sorcerer, Conjurer,
and an Inftrument of the Devil \ and as if God
would floop to employ thofe who had fo far ftooped
below the Dignity of reafonable Creatures, as to
converfe with the Devil.
By this means the People alfo were the more
eafily fubjc6ted to the Abufe of the Conjurer,
and expofed to the Delufions of an evil Spirit,
not being able to know when he fpoke from One
or from the Others no doubt the Deluder would
always pretend he fpoke by the immediate Illumi-
nation of Heaven, as he had fomctimcs really done
fo, it would not be difficult to obtain the Opi-
nion that he did always fo.
Now 'tis moll certain that nothing can more
affill the Delufions of the Devil in fuch cafes as
thefe, than to have it entertained among the Peo-
ple, that all the Infpiration is from Heaven j even
the Devil himfelf cannot defire a ftronger Auxi-
liarj it is an Afliflance fo natural to the Delufions
which he is carrying on among Men, that all his
infernal Art cannot form an Equivalent to it. And
hence it came to pafs, at leaft I believe fo^ that the
Devil chofe always that way of coming at the
Senfes of Mankind, I mean by Viiion and Dream,
by Voices in the Night, and by Injedions of Mid-
night Thoui^htsj becaufe God himfelf had made
ule of the (ame Means to infpire the Minds of
Men with divine Ideas 5 and the Devil, by imitating
the fuperior Revelations, could not only enable his
Magicians and Souchfayers, and fuch other Inftru-
mentsof Delufion, to impofc their Cheats upon the
People, but could even delude and impofe upon
thofe Dreamers thcmfelves too, perfwading them to
believe their Infpirations were from Heaven, and
th^t they had fuch and fuch things revealed to them
from the immediate Spirit of God, when it was'
only a Flatus from Hell, throwing them into Ec-
I i Itafies,
i6 A S r S T E M
ilafics, and as Balaam faid, being in a I'rance hut with
kis Eyes open^ih^t is to fay, pofTefs'd with the Witch-
craft of an evil Spirit, as is faid of the Maid in
the j^5ls^ c. xvi. 'ver. i6. who had a Spirit of
Divination, and brought to her Mafter great Gain
by Southfaying, that is to fay, by fpeaking as the
/)m/ di&ated to herj nay, and the Text is plain
in acknowledging that it was the Devil that pof-*
fefled her, for in the Original you have his Name
what Devil it was j and if you want a farther Ex-
planation of him, you may have it too 5 his Name
is called PTtHON^ and fome of your Bibles
(fuppofing for once that you read any) has it in their
Margins J what particular jD^-z;// Python was, whe-
ther an avaritious, a treacherous, a deceiving Devil '^
but fome think it was the firil, becaufe fhe hired
cut hcrfelf, and her Devil with her, to a Mafter,
and what {he got by her Devil^ her Mafter was to
make the beft ofj the Terms much the fame as
a late /r//^Mar—s married two Wives for, then let
them out again at fo much a Year, and took the
Income of both their Devils for his Jointure. A
rare Bargain indeed, and fomething a-kin, 1 believe,
to the Devil Python !
How much were it to be wifli'd, that fome
of our Southfaying Wits, who are really neither
wife Men or Southfayers, Magicians or Conju-
rers, and who will have us, in fpite of our
Senfes, believe that they are really infpired,
could but tell us too, with any moderate Cer-
tainty, whether thofe Infpirations are from God
or the Devil 'y
Whether the Flights of their Infipids
areEcftafies of the Adored, or of the Horrid > whe-
ther whtn they rail at Heaven, and burlefque their
Maker, we may not really believe they are over-
rul'd by a divine Influence, to do it with fo ill a
Grace, and fo little common Senfe, that it may
be diredcd to exalt the All- wile, by the very
mean&
of M A G I C K. 117
means ufed to expofc him, and to make them mix Im-
pudence with fo much Ignorance, that others equal-
ly wicked, but of better Judgment, may grow ficic
of the Crime for the mcer Deficiency of the Wit,
Doubtlefs, He that knows how to ferve the
bed Ends by the worft Means, can leave the
meaneft Heads and the mod brainlefs Wits to
be thus wicked, to intimate to others the Weak-
nefs of the Crime, and the grofs Abfurdity of
Atheifm. I don't therefore think it at all pro-
phane, at leaft if not fo intended, to fay Such a
Fellow is one of God-a-mighty's fimple One's;
by which I would be always underftood, that he is
one to whom Heaven has denied the Gift of
Brains, and fufFer'd the Devtl to fill up the empty
Spaces in his Head with a Share of glaring Im-
pudence, fuch as will pafs for Wit with thofe that
have none, and for the worft of Folly with all the
reft of Mankind.
This fort of wife Men, of whom the Age \^
plentifully ftored at this time, are doubtlefs plac'd
up and down in proper Stations by the Allowance
of Providence, for the Convi&ion of Mankind in
their particular Spheres > juft as the Devil himfelf
has, in many cafes, been a Preacher of Truth, and
will be fo to the End of the World, tho' fore
againft his Will.
Of fo much Force is Ironical Righteoufnels,
that the blackeft Agents are fitteft to be made the
brighreft Examples of it > fince alfo the greateft
and bcft Principles are often illuftrated by their
moft infamous, and confequently, by their compleat-
eft Contraries.
But to go back where I left off. The Devil^wha
has always had the Impudence to mimick his Ma-
ker, and fometimes to perfonate him too, in his
Applications to Mankind, has made, I fay, his
iirit Acquaintance with him by this Method of
I 5
Dream
8 A S r S T E M
Dream and Midnight Vifion, for that very Reafon,
viz. becaufe it is the Method by which God him-
felf often ufed to reveal himfelf to the Prophets and
other his moft eminent Servants of old, as inftanc'd
before in Abraham^ and of which the Scripture has
many Examples. (I hope that Book, when 'tis taken
as a Hiftory only, may obtain Credit enough to be
brought in Evidence.) I have mentioned Jbraham
already, and perhaps it may be ofFer'd that this is
not fufficient, becaufe God converfcd, as the Text
fays in another Place, Face to Face with Abraham \
but take it then with his Grandfon Jacob: God ap-
peared to Jacobs Gen. xxviii. ij. in his Dream of the
Ladder reaching up to Heaven. And behold the
Lord flood above it and faid, / am the Lord God
^/Abraham thy Father. But if this will not do
neither, then take it with one who it might be
as likely fhould have the Devil appear to him as
God himfelf, butftill 'twas the fame thing, Gen.xx,
3. God came to Ahimelech in a Dream 5 So might
the Devil too, for Abiraelech was an Idolater : And
again, ver. 6. And God faid unto him in a Dream^
Now Abimelech was a Philijiin of the curfed Race
deftined to DellruiSlion by the Pofterity of Abraham^
and yet God appeared to him, or came to him in a
Dream, and fpoke to him in a Dream.
From hence the Devil^ who is cunning enough
to imitate all thofe Methods of Accefs to the Minds
of Man, which 'tis pofTible for him to come at
him by, and which his Maker has ufed for the
like Communications, has always made ufc of this
Method i and when he has defigned the Delufion,
or the perplexing of Mankind, or any other of his
infernal Infatuations, he has brought them to pafs
hy the Injection of evil Thoughts or other dark
Means, moving his Paffions and Affedions, inftilling
all the hellifh Imaginations that are requifite to the
Mifchiefs he defigns. And thus you have the Cir-
cumflances^
of M A G I C K. up
cumftanccs, and the Rcafon too, of the Devil's way
of working with Mankind.
It remains a Qi-ieftion, tho' of no extraordinary
Importance, what Shape or Form the Devil made
ufc of in his firft acquainting himfelf with Man-
kind. It is Satan's Misfortune, to fay no worfe of
him, that he cannot appear in his own Figure,
cloathed with any of his native Beauties 5 but that
it would render him fo frightful to his Emiflaries,
and even his beft Friends and moft ufeful Ser-
vants would be terrified, and would run away from
him inftead of converfing with him 5 and the moft
accurate Magician or South fayer in Arabia would,
inftead of going into the Deferts and Wildernefs to
meet him, abhor the very Place, and tremble at
the Thought of feeing him.
Hence, to whifper to them in the Night, and
only talk in Vifion and Appearance, is the kindcft
thing the Devil can do to them, as well as the
wifeft way for himfelf5 for was he ever to appear,
I fay^ in his own Cloaths, none of his Friends
would ever come to receive his fecond Vifit. Now
his coming in the Night, or in Dream, as is hinted
in the Story of the Magician above, is certainly
needful > for as in a Dream the Voice without the
Vifion is fufficient, fo if a Shape is reprefenred to
the Imagination in the Sleep it fooner wears off,
and the Imprellions are fooner raz*d out of the
Mind, than if the AppariMon was vifible with open
Eyes, and in the Light of the Day 5 there's a great
deal of difference between what we really fee, and
what we only dream we did fee.
We have indeed fome of Balaam's Dreamers,
that is to fay, who dream with their Eyes open;
indeed fome of them may be faid to be always in
a Dream, they are fcarce any thing but Appai-itioa
themfelves 5 their whole Lives are a kind of moral
Delufionj and as they live in a Dream, fo we
I 4 muft
n@ ^ ST S T E M
muft dream too, to make any thing of them, for
they never are what they feem to be, or feem tp
be what they are. But as I may perhaps endeavour
to difcover thofe People to the World, a httle
plainer than I can difcover them to thcmfelves, I
fay no more of them in this Place, leaving the De-
vil and them to a6t in Concert a-while, that they
rna\ illuftrare, and be Foils to one another.
It is true that by this way of dealing in Dreams, the
Devil has mfinitp Advantage, for the makmg C-n-
juitrs, that is to fay. Magicians and Southfayers, in
the \A orld : Whether that fort of People have been
of any Ufe to him for the propagating his Intereft
in the World, is a Queltion by it fclf.
That the Devil took this Method for the firft
cftat>hlhinghimfelf in the World, and, as Icall'd it,
making his Acquaintance with Mankind, I have ta-
l<en Notice of already: How ufeful he has found his
new- made Friends, and how apt to carry on his Bu-
finefs, and efpecially for the farther extending his
Power, and propaganng the Delufions of others. Hi-
flory will inform us > and we cannot doubt but he
has found his Advantage in it : But it remains a
Queftion of Importance flill undecided, whether are
beft pleafed in thefe no6lurnal Operations, the Devil
or the v^agician; my Opinion is for the firft. I believe
indeed the Devil has got the better ofthem in the main,
and whereas he at firft was mighty eager to make his
Acquamtance among them, and glad of the Means;
hefeems now to have over- reached them,and to have
worked them up to a Defire after the Correfpon-
dence in fuch a manner, that the fubtle Manager is
notfo cheap to be had fince, but makes Bargains, nay,
brings them up to his own Terms, and fometimes
tells them plainly, he has no Occafion for them ;
but oh the other hand, if they want him, they
muft give him his own Price, and do what he con-
ditions with them for, or elfe he has no more to fay
to them, tho^ he is a Cheat in that too. Thus
of M A G I C K. iji
Thus like a cunning Chap, he turns his Back and
is gone, knowing very well that they will call him
again, and give him his Price 5 yield to his Demand,
and rather fell themfelves to him Soul and Body^ as
we are told is now very frequent, than go without
his Afjiftance. This is all owing to his Subtiky,
and Mankind's Folly and Fondncfsj for had they
flood as they did at firft, he muft have come to
their Conditions j but he found the way to make
himfclf neceflary to them, and to pleafe them, and
he managed accordingly.
It is indeed an Evidence how fhrewdly the Devil
over-reached Mankind in the mod early Ages of
^he World : For, Firfi^ as I mentioned before, thi$
yf^s to come to them with feme Authority, and
with the Magnificence of a God, and it always
gave them an Awe and kind of Reverence of his
Appearance 5 Secondly^ it really fo far prevail'd
with them, that we have a great deal of Reafon to
believe they did not always know whether their
Intelligence was from Above or from Below, and
whether they were converfing with God or with.
the Devil \ If this is true, as I hav^e no Reafon to
queftion, I have lefs Reafon to doubt that he of-
ten deluded them to think the former. And thus
perhaps many falfe Prophets in former times came
to the poor People, and began their Predi£tion$
with the ufual Preface, 'Thus faith the Lord ; when
in Juflice they ought to have begun with, Thus
faith the Devil^^s they might eafily have {een after-
wards, by the Confequence of it, and by the nature
pf their Predidion ^ for 1 believe that way it is moll
cafily difcovered.
The Difcovery feems indeed to be direfced by
this very Method, where the Scripture fays, If a
Prophet comes^ Jhews Signs and iVonders^ and thca
adds, go ferve other Gods^ his very Do6lrine proves
him to be an Impoftor, and on that very Account
he
Ill A S r S T E M
be is to be rejefted : God's Prophets will always
teach God's Truths, a falfe Prophet is eafily known
by his Teachings 5 the Devil may deceive for a
while, but even the Devil himfelf cannot hold it
long, the cloven Principle will appear, which I
fuppofe the Fable of the cloven Foot to be an Em*
blcm of, and no more.
But to come back to the Example of the Magi-
cian going into the Defart > why, the very Place
was a Branch of that Complication of Fraud which
conftituted ail the reft : The Man went thither
lirft cafually, fell aflcep by the natural Confequence
of his Wearinefs, and under the Palm-tree, as cu-
ftomary, to preferve him by its Shade j the reft
was all a Cheat j the Devil could as well have
made him dream and fee the Vidon in his Cham-
ber at Sufa^ or where clfe he dwelt in Perfia^
or Arabia^ as in the Wildernefs> but he catch'd
him there, and took th.u Advantage, to introduce
tfic Ceremony of his future correfporiding 5 and
therefore he appoints him to come again to the
feme Place, and there gives him the Formality of
Meafures to be obferved ; he muft make his Tour
fifteen times round the Tree> he muft call him by
what infernal Title he was pleated to give himfelf;
and this to be done three times every Circuit he
made about the Tree> and when all this was done,
as he might well be inclined to do, he was to lie
down and go to fleep. And what need all this
Cookery, but to didi up the Delulion with a due
Form, give a Sanftion to the Vifion itfelf, and
command a fuitable Regard to the Audience which
he had the Honour to be admitted to?
If this had nor been the cafe, it might as well
have all been tranfaded any where elfe> but Satan
finds his Account in thefe things: For during many
Ages after this, and perhaps in other Places, the
Soutbfayers and Magicians of Arabia^ went out \\\ the
Night,
of M A G 1 C K. ,13
Night, and into the Wildernefs, and Solitary Places,
to meet with their Inrpirations, and to dream
Dreams, and then came back, ftor'd and qualify'd
to make their Predidions 5 as much as to fay, rhey go
to their Palm-irees, to meetVilionsj there they met
their Z)^^7/, and then came back, and fpread their
Delufions, as their Inftrudor had furnifh'd them.
Semiramis it feems, and we may fuppofe her Suc-
cefTors in the Babylonian Monarchy, kept feveral
Sets of tbcfe People 5 and as they had their feveral
Denominations, fo they had their feveral Offices
and Employments under her: As particularly her
*wife Men or Magicians 5 thefe were to explain
to her the Afpe6t of the Heavens, the pro-
bable Effe6ts of all furprizing Phsenomena in Na-
ture: hex JJlrologers ^nd Southfayers y and thefe were
employed to confult their private Devils, and were
Revealers of Secrets, Interpreters of Dreams, ^c. and
then they bad fFizards, and Sorcerers ^ and fuch as
ufed Inchantmentsj and thefe foretold theSuccefsof
her Military Enterprizes, expounded Omens, the
Signs and Circumftances of Creatures, the flying of
Birds, Voices, Apparitions, and all fuch things as
were particularly uneafy ordifturbing to the Queen,
or to her Court, and wanted their Explaining: The
firll of thefe I have voted already to be honeft Men,
but the lalt two I make no doubt confulced with
the Devil, and the Devil with them, upon all Oc-
cafions. Nor do I doubt at all but that they made
Prodigies, and then cxplain'd their Meaning, as I
faid before j that they appointed Dreams on pur-
pofe, and for the fake of interpreting them 5 of
which I ihall give you another Account hereafter.
Sometimes it feems, thefe conjuring, enchanting
People, were fo far from explaining things to the
Qiieen's Mind, or interpreting things after the man-
ner that fhe expeded, that her Majefty was pleas'd
to diipatch them out of her way, and hang them
by
114 ^ SYSTEM
by Dozens. And thus Nebuchadnezzar commanded
all the wife Men of Babylon to be put to Death,
tho' it does not appear that his Commands were ex-
ecuted, nor are we certain they were not 5 but 'tis
evident it was very much the Cuftom to do fo.
Hence I fuppofe they were generally inclin'd,
like the Prophets in the cafe of King Ahab^ to take
care, and prophefy nothing but what ihould pleafe
the King. And when Micaiah^ a true Prophet,
or Prophet of God, came to tell the King what
really came to pafs, we fee what his Fate had been,
if the King had out-liv'd the Battle.
Nor to this Day do the Princes of the Eaft
make any fcruple to trufs up their Conjurers and
Southfayers, when they find them juggle wich
them, and find they cheat and impofe upon themj
an admirable Method to deal with the Broachers of
Athciftical, Deiftical, and Enthufiaftic VVhymfiesin
our Age, where we have a more fure Word of Prot
phefy^ which we are commanded to take heed to,
and which the modern Agents of the Devil are
only employed to counter- ad", and drive out of the
World, if pofTible, that the old Oracles of Devil-
worfhip, and other Delufions, might be again in-
troduc'd.
But I am loth to feem vindi6tive in my Notions,
nor would I fet up Fire and Faggot 5 no, not a-
gainft the Devil and his Agents j they may have
enough of that hereafter, with the Devil and his
Angels: And befides, fuch a Perfecution muft ne-
ceflarily at this rime be fo bloody, that I know not
what City, or Town, Inns of Court, Palace, College,
or Univerfity, {our own excepted) which it would
not almolt lay wafte, defolare, and make void of Inha-
bitants. Mercy on us ! perfecute and punifti Men for
being Atheifts, and Deill:s> for dividing the Trinity,
and unfan61:ifying the Holy Gholl, who istheSandi-
^erof the World, and fuch difficult Trifles as thefe?
whcre^
6f M A G 1 C K. iij
Inhere would it end land what would become of all
the religious Part of the World ! what a Schifm, in
the rtioll literal Senfe, would this make among us?
and where is there a Church, Chappel, Meeting-
houfe or Congregation, that would not be divided
againft it felf, arid fet up a new Body of DifTentcrs?
Truly fo, as diflenting not from this, or that Opi-
nion of Religion, bur from all Religion, and all
Opinions in Religion whatfoever.
Well, let the Church of Rome fend Proteftants
to Heaven by the Rack and the Gibbet, I would
not be inftrumental to lend all the Atheifts and
Arians to the Devil -^ no, not for the fake of my
Native Country, for fear of laying wafle the
Glebe, and leaving Poflerity no body to inftruft
them better.
CHAP. V.
A Farther Account of the DevilV Condu5i trt
Imitating T^ivine hifpirations ; Something of
the T^ifference hefJieen them ; andparttcu^
larly of Signs and Wonders^ Falfe as well as
Trtie^ and the Cheats of the Former,
HAVING ohferv'd how the Devll^ in the In-
fancy of his Correfpondence with Mankind^
came to him, and madehis Acquaintance by the fame
Method that God was pleasM to reveal himfelf on
Occafions of the greateft Importance j it would be
very much to the Advantage of our prefent Enquiry,
if we could come at fome more Particulars in the
refpe61:ive Appearances, and know fomething of the
Difference in them, that fo for the Future we might
diftinguifh our Modern Infpiiations, and not oblige
the Devil fo much, or his Favourites either, as to
flatter their Vanity with thinking they are di-
vinely
i6 A S r S T E M
vinely infpired, when, as T faid before, they arc only
deluded with the Enthufiafms of Hell, and impos'd
upon by Mother Eve's Toad at their Ears, that is
to fay, by the Whifpers of the Devil.
That God was pleas'd to reveal himfelf to his
Servants of old by Vifion and Dream is evidentj
befides the Examples mentioned before, from his
own Declaration, that this was the way he refolv'd
to tranfa£t with them. Numb. xii. 6. If there be a
Prophet among you, I the Lord will make my felf
known to him in a Vifion, and will [peak unto him in
a Dream, My Servant Mofes is not fo, (that is to fay,
was more than fo,) with him will I [peak Mouth t9
Mouthy even apparently, andfiot in dark Speeches, &c.
This is a noted Declaration of the Manner how
God would difcover himfelf to his Servants 5 and
we cannot doubt but the Devil, who knew it very
well, did quickly imitate the like Method, and
bring in a thoufand Delufions at the fame Door:
It being in his Power, as I have faid, to inje£fc
Midnight Thoughts and Amufements, and make
his Appearances in Vifion and Dream as he pleased \
how near he might come to imitate the Vifions
and Revelations of God, is what I cannot under-
take to determine : I am fure 'tis more than pro-
bable that he might do fo, in a manner as might
deceive thofe unguarded Pcrfons, to whom he often
thus appear'd, and whofe Ends in feeking him out
might be almoft as wicked as his that appear'd to them.
It may be fomething too much in the Fa.vour a£
the Pretenders to new Light and Prophefies, and tx>
the ancient Revelations and Difcoveries made by
falfe Prophets, properly fo call'd in the holy ^^crtd
Writings ; but I cannot anfwer it to my own Reafon,
if I fhould fay, that I believe they all knew, and
every time too when they faid, thus faith the Lord,
that it was falfe, that they told a wilful preme-
ditated Lye, and that they ought to have faid, Thus
faith our fovereign Lord the DeviL Nor
of M A G I C K. 117
Nor will I venture to fay, that all the Modern
Heathens^ the Druids among the Britains^ the
Priefls of the Heathen Temples, who uttered the
Oracles of the Devih however they came by them,
or the Bramans and ftrideft Reclufes of the Indi^
afiSy the Dervifes of Mahomet^ and the like, do all
actually know, that is to fay, by immediate Commu-
nications from Hell, and the inftrumentality of its
Agents, that they really are Confederate with ihe
great Enemy of Mankind, and carrying on a Cor-
refpondence with the Devil. I have fo much Opi-
nion of the Power of common Scnfe in Man, as a
human Creature, and fo much Charity for rhe good
Meaning of thofe, who we do noc find immediately
vile, profligate, and immoral, as to think they
would not ad with Satan upon that foot.
I have much more Reafon to think rhe four Ec-
clefiafticks o^ Switzerland^ in ihcSiory Jetzer^ adcd
with Satan open-ey'd, and open-fac'd, when they
proposed to the poor foolilli Creature to renounce
God and Jefus Chrift, and fo to carry on the
Fraud they had begun, with a kind of Sandion in-
ilead of an Oath of Sccrefy, and it appeared mdeed
to be fo at laft.
But certainly, as in other Cafes, abundant Para-
lels might be brought. The Devil, who generally
afts in Difgufe, has carry'd thofe Difguifes fo art-
fully, that I doubt not but many of his falfe Pro-
phets, long before our times, have faid, thus faith
the Lord^ with a good Grace > that is^ with a real
Belief, that God had fpoken to them, or, as was
the Language of the Scripture Times, had Ipoken
by them, when really it was the Voice of the De^
vily and of no body elfe : And let not our Modern
Enthufiafticks take this to be faid only in Favour of
themfelves 5 I am noc come fo far down in the
courfe of my Work, fo much as to think of thera^
90 not of §t. Dunftmiy St. Francis^ or of the more
eminei^c
ii8 A S Y S T E M
eminent Deceiver St. Ignatius^ the greateft Enthu-
fiaftick of the lad ten Centuries: when I coma
to thero, we (hall reckon as we meet.
But I am yet talking of the fpecifick Difference
between the Infpirations of falfe Prophets, the
Dreams whifper'd and fiiggefted by the Den)il'y and
thofe on the other hand from the contrary Appear-
ances of the good Spirit, that is to fay, of God
himfelf. I am in the firft place to intimate, that
they are not always to be difcern'd, no rior eafy tcj
be difcern'd 5 if they were, there would not be fo
many Delufions in the World as have been 5 for the
Men are not all Devils before they come to him^
they don't come to him refolving to be deceiv'dj
and intending to deceive every Body they are con-
cerned with. I muft own, I do not think that all
the four hundred Priefts of Baal^whom Elijah fum-
mon'd together to the great Sacrifice at Mount
Carmel, would have fhew'd fo many antick Tricks,
leaping upon the Altar, cutting themfclves with
Knives, and crying O Baal hear us f if they had
believ'd they were under a Delufion of the Devil
all the while, and that Baal was no Body but a dead
Stock, a lifelefs Image, without Senfe to hear^
much more without Power to anfwer. They muft
certainly believe^ that Baal was a Something, or a
Somebody, whom it was their Duty to pay a Ho-
mage and Reverence to 5 or that they paid that
Homage to the true God, through the Medium of
an Image, a fort of a Model of that meaner and
more ignorant Idolatry call'd Popery.
But to look forward beyond this Image of Idol-
worihip, we have the old falfe Prophets coming
much nearer to the true, and the Infpirations bear-
ing an Affinity in a more fignificant Points and
that is, in Signs and Wonders^ or what we call
Mircales, which yet may be all from the Devil%
fo hard it is for the deceived falfe Prophet
ro-
of M A 'G I C A. itp
to know when he is right and when he Is wrong;
and fo eafy is it for him to be impos'd upon him-
felf, and confequently to delude the People he con-
verfes with.
The Devil^ as far as his Agency of this kind will
reach, muft certainly be mightily pleas'd with it;
for by thus infpiring his Tools, not only to the de-
gree of falfe Prophets, but to an Ability of work-
ing Miracles, fliowing Signs and Wonders, whe^
ther Real or Imaginary, he not only the more ef-
fe6tually impofes upon his falfe Prophets, but gives
or deputes fo much of Devil to them, as to make
them able to delude and deceive others, nay to de-
ceive the whole World j or as the Text exprefles
it Matt, xxiii. 2,4. to deceive (if it were poffible) ths
very Eie5f,
'Tis remarkable in this fame Text, that it is pre-
dided there fhall come falfe Chrifts, and falfe Pro-
phets, (Devils, or Devil's Agents) and ihall fliew
great Signs and Wondeis.
. There is alfo another Text, which gives us a
Caution againft fuch, tho' I do confefs I can't
fee how it can be made ufe of till the Delufion has
gone fome Length 5 and that is in Deut. xiii. i, 2-
If there arife among you a Prophet, or a Dreamer of
Dreams, and giveth thee a Sign^ or a Wonder^ and
the Sign^ or the Wonder come to pafs. Now this,
I fay, requires fo much time, as to the fulfilling
the Token or Predi6tion of the falfe Prophets, till
.when, and till the falfe Do6i:rine which he preaches
Ihall dete6t him, the People are manifeftly in dan-
ger of the Delufion^ for as in all fuch Cafes in
thofe ancient Times, every Novelty was confirm'd
by Signs and Wonders, What could be more de-
luding, and more apt to impofe upon the People,
than to have the Shewer of thofe Signs and Won-
ders confirm his Teachings by a Miracle, and that the
Miracle ihould come to pafs? Yet all this may at-
K tend
II
130 A SYSTEM
tend the lying Wonders of a Magician^ a falfe Pro-
phet, nay of a Devihy That fuch Wonders may
be wrought as are juftly term'd falfe and lying
Wonders, we have again prcdifted 2 fhef, ii. p.
which Text I doubt touches a little our holy Fa-
ther the Pope, whofe coming is faid to be after the
working of Satan^ with all Power and Signs, and lying
Wonders \ intimating that there are Wonders which
arc Delufive } faid to be wrought, but not wrought;
a la Mode the Legend^ the Fables of Monkery^ the De^
*uil of Loudon, and the like. Wonders indeed can
icarce be called lying upon any other Foundation
:
for if they were real, and aftually perform'd, how
can they then be lying? but if promis'd to be per-
form'd, and not done^ or faid to be really perform'd
and done, but were nor, then they are indeed
Lyes, or lying Wonders 5 and take them which way
we will, I doubt as before, and leave my Matters
the Jefuites to bring his Holinefs off their own
way.
But I come on upon modern Time too fail 5 Hi-
ftory demands that we advance by juft degrees, and
to that purpofe I muft look a little more particu-
larly into the Antiquity of thefe things. Satan,
to give the Devil his due, did not manage with
fo little Dexterity, his firft Acquaintances with
Mankind, as to fuffer his fecret Methods to be diP-
cover'd and detefted, or his Jnftruments to be ex-
posed ; On the contrary, he put innumerable
Wonders upon Mankind, a6ted with inextricable
Stratagem and Art 5 from which Dexterity, and
the difficulty of explaining his Management, the
common Operations of his Favourites obtain'd the
Sandbion of Devilifh j and the A r t they ufed, ob-
tain'd the honourable Title of Black j and this,
according to my Title, is what I am now to defcribc.
The World was now fo much improv'd inKnow-
Icgde, that, as 1 hinted above, nothing new could be
ftartedj
I
of M A G I C K. 13
ftarted, but a Miracle was prefently enquired afccr to
confirm it j and he that could do the nioft eminent
things of that kind, was the moft famous in their
Opinion. Mopfus was a Southfayer, and faid to be
the Son of Apollo: He was in fuch Credit and E-
fleem in his time, that it grew into a Proverb, to
be as infallible as Mopfus.
This Mopfus meeting one Chakhas^ a Man like-
wife eminent in the fame devilifli Profeffion, they
fell into Difpute about fome things relating to their
Art. Mopfus ask'd Chalchas^ how many Figs fuch.
a wild Fig-tree, as he pointed out to him, had upoa
it 5 the Southfayer Chalchas would not anfwcr him,
but alledg'd, that it was not a fair Qiiellion. Upon
which Mopfus told him the Number, and upoa
Counting them up, it was found true to a Figj
upon which Chalchas was fo confounded, not being
able to conceive how it Was pcrform'd, that tho*,
the thing was trifling, he died for Grief.
It feems, Chalchas had his Fortune told him by
the Oracle, (viz.) that he fhould dye when he
found out a better Southfayer than himfelfj all
which I can refolve into nothing but this, that
Mopfus had more Favour with the Devil than Chal^
chas^ at lead at that time, and that he whifper'd
the Number of the Figs in his Ear 3 or to clear up
the Juggle, Mopfus had counted them before, and
fo the Queftion was a Juggle in it felf> which in-^
deed was the moft likely of the two.
The Humour of the Times being, as I faid, to
require Miracles and Wonders, the Southfayers
and Dreamers of Dreams belHrr'd themfelves, and
fought out (every Man his own Way) for fecret In-
fpirations and Illuminations, and the Devil was
very ufeful to them on many Occafions, till at laft
he found the Work encreas'd upon his Hands,
and he was obliged to fct up Deluuon-Offices, as
I may call them, and give out Anfwers at the
K z Shrines
A SYSTEM
Shrines of the People's Idols, and in the Names of
their Gods.
Thefe were fo far from crying down the Office
or Dignity of a Southfayer in the World, that ic
rather encreaft their Fame. For as the Number of
thofe Oracles were but few, not above twelve or
fourteen, great and fmallj fo the wife Men^ ih^ Ma-
gicians and Southfayer.i<^ were often fent by their re-
fpe61:ive Princes, whofe Favourites they were, to
thofe Oracles on extraordinary Occafions, and to
be refolved in their Doubts > whence they fre-
quently brought fuch Anfwers, as they knew would
pleafe and oblige the Prince that fent them 5 per-
haps as beft fuited the Circumftances of thofe Prin-
ces, and which thofe fo fent bell knew, whether the
Oracle gave fuch Anfwers or no, the latter being
not always neceflary.
This working by Miracle feldom or never fail'dj
it confounded the Underflandings of Menj and
when any of their Southfayers had once obtained
an Efteem by fuch a Performance, he never wanted
any thing more to continue his Chara6ter, and to
gain him Admittance into the Favour and Court of
the greateft Princes. Hence Jofeph's telling Pha-
raoh's Chief Butler and Chief Baker their Dreams,
and thofe Dreams exadlly commg to pafs, open'd
the Doors of the Prifon for him j as his adding to
it that of telling the Interpretation of Pharaoh's
Dream advanced him to the fecond Chariot, and to
the crying Ahrek before him, that is Bow the Knee.
'Tis the Opinion of fome Learned m the Wif-
dom of the jEgyptians^ that Jofeph continued the
Art of Southfaymg (for in that the Wifdom of
the jEgyptians chiefly confided) for a great while
after j and I acknowledge my felf to be of that O-
pinion, whether 1 am learned in the Wifdom oF the
^Egyptians or no, and that he had never been con-
tinued in fuch a high Poll fo long, if he had not-
For
'of M A G 1 C K. 133
For this Reafon thofe Words he ufed afterwards
to his Brethren, Wot you not that fuch a Man as I
can Divine'^, are a kind of Admiration^ that is to
fay, Are you fo ignorant in the Cuftoms of this
Country, as not to know that a Man in my Poft
muft be able certainly to divine? Gen. xliv. if.
And indeed, without putting any flrain'd or con-
Urain'd Meaning upon the Sacred Text, I cannot
doubt but that the People of jEgypt took Jofeph
to be what they calPd the Prince of the Magicians
of the Eaftj that is to fay, one of the Chief of
them, and extraordinarily qualify'd by the Gods for
the Under(landing deep Myfteries, for diving into
hard Queftions, interpreting Dreams, and refolving
Doubts. In a word, in the fame Senfe that Daniel^
almoft a thoufand Years after, was eltecm'd azBal^y-
lon^ viz. that the Spirit of the Holy Gods was in him 5
whether they meant by their Gods the Crocodile,
or the River Nile^ or the Great Calf at the Egyp-
tian Thebes^ or Ifys^ or Ofyris^ that I fhall not en-
quire into here, but they doubted not that fome of the
beft and brighteft of their Deities infpir'd Jofeph
with an Excellent Spirit.
Nor was it unreafonable for the poor People un-
der the dark Circumftancesof that Age to believe fo
of him; for how elfe fhould he have the Fore-
knowledge of the dreadful Famine feven Years be-
fore it came ? how that Sagacity to gather fuch im-
menfe Quantities of Corn in the plentiful Years be-
fore it> and lay it up in fuch Places, and in fuch
Proportions, and fo fecur'd, as to fupply fuitably
the whole Country of Mgypt^ fo vaftly extended,
and fo populous as it was at that time?
How Jofeph came by all this Knowledge and
Wifdom, they (as we have like reafon to believe)
were as ignorant of, as they were pofitive that it
was fo, by fome means or other; and therefore it
was no Abfurdiry for them to fugged that he did all
K 3
by
134 ^ S r S T E M
by Divination, that is to fay, by Enchantment,
or fecret Converfe with the Spirits of another
World 5 or as we call it, with more Propriety at
lead in our Opinion, that he dealt with the Z)^i;;7i and
that this was done by the Charm of the Silver
Cup which was put in the Mouth of Benjamin's
Sack.
-^
That they believ'd fo is evident from the Words
of the fame Chap. Gen. xliv. f. Is not this it in
which my Lord drinketh, and whereby he divineth ?
The Words are fully explain'd by the Cuftoms and
iJfage of the Magicians and Devil-hunters in thofe
pays; v/ho ufed ft range Geftures, and clanging
Sounds, fuch, or not much unlike fuch as our
old Women now ufe to hive their Bees; by
thefe they call'd the familiar Devils^ the Pythons
and Apollyons of their Acquaintance abopt them^
Nvhatever Occafions made it necefTary for them to
Ijpeak with them.
That Jofeph knew better, and that he certainly
lieither ufed fuch Methods, or convers'd with any
fuch kind of Foreigners or Infernals, was moft cer-
tain; but his Steward was dircded to fpeak in the
Language of the Country; nor would he have
talk'd to have been underftood, if he had not : and
this confirms the Conje6lure as above, and makes it
pnoft reafonable ; namely, that all Mgypt took him
Qpfeph) to be a Southfayer or wife Man, and that
fertainly he could Divine.
This Part of Jofeph's Story is ufeful to explain
by what manner of Communication the Diviners
of thofe days ufed to maintain their Acquaintance
with the Infernals, and how mean and fcandalous
Methods the Devil contrived to fettle his Corre-
pondence; that in fhort, by the clanging of an old
Kettle, or Brafs-pot5» the whole Hive of Devils
iftiould be alarm'd, be told that fome of their Ma-
ilers on Earth hadi occafion for them, or as we
call
of M A Q 1 C K. i3y
call it, wanted to fpeak with them, and that they
fliould immediately fly to hand, and mount to the
Place to know the Bufinefs.
This will be a very material Point to difcufs more
fully, and toexpkin thePhilofophyof, if we fhould
come to examine the moft accurate and polite Me-
thods of that particular Art, which we call raifing
the Devilf of which fo many valiant old Women
have been compleatly Miftreflesj and that fo emi-
nently, that Satan durft no more refufe to attend
the Call, or fail of his Duty when he heard the
Summons, than a School-boy that has been well
lafh'd for playing Truant, dares do it again, before
his Back-fide has done fmarting: For doubtlefs,
the Scolding of an old Woman, and upon fuch a
Difappointment too, would be enough to terrifie
the JDevil himfelf, if he has any Scnfc of that out-
rageous Animal, call'd an old Witch, upon his
Mind.
But I leave that Part to a particular DifTertation
upon the Species, when I fhall learnedly and po-
litely examine, and, if pra6ticable, determine for the
good of Mankind, the two following Wehigty
and Important Difficulties.
Firft^ Whether upon an immergent and fudden
Occafion, the Mufick alfo being the fame, old Mo-
ther Anthony of- in the County of —
*
could not be as effedual with her Voice to hive a
Swarm of Bees, as any Brafs Kettle or Warming-
pan in all the Village} and fo both frugally favc
her Neighbours from the rifque of bruifing their
Houihold-ftuffJ and the faid Mother Anthony^ in-
Itead of being liable to the Ducking-ftool for a
common Dillurber, become a ufeful Servant to her
King and Country, and enjoy a Pcnfion for her
goodOffices.
Secondly^ Whether the fame Mother Anthony^ ac-
cording to the Hypothefis of Jofeph'% Cup of Divi-?
K 4 nationji
1^6 A SYSTEM
nation, might not be alfo made ufeful in her Ge-
neration upon like extraordinary Occafions, to lay
the Devil^ and that too by the fame Rules that
others raifehim^ fince the Bees in their greatelt Hur-
ries and Tumults are quieted, as above, by the fame
Noife, which at another time would fret and dif-
order them> the Philofophy of which is not yet
underftood, nor can the Reafon of it be difcover'd
in all the Philofophical Tranfadions or Tranfadors
who have fo long ftudied it. From whencq they
fay, the Tinkers beating their Pans when they
publiih their Occupations, or as we call it vulr
garly in England^ Cry their Trades^ are extreamly
uneafy to all the old Women above their ninth
Climafteric, and unfufFerable to thofe who are en-
gaged in the Article of Circle-making, and Paw-
wawing j infomuch that ifa Tinker ihould have ftop'd
in a Village and beat his Kettle above a certain li-
mited time, at, or within hearing of the Town of
Ippwich^ in Mother Lackland's time, fhe would have
been obliged to have raifcd the Devil for her Affi-
ilance. But this I leave to Experiment.
'
Asj I fay,thefe two important Queftions may take
up a large Tra6t by themfelves, and as they muft
needs be of vaft Confequence to the Readers, I doubt
not the Rookfellers, who are generally Publick-fpi^
rited Gentlemen, will embrace the Opportunity of
publilhmg fuch a valuable Piece for the Good of
the Nation 3 fo J ihall adjourn it for the pre-
fent.
Come we next in order, according to the Con-
tents of this Chapter, to the particular Quellion
in what Shape the Devil appeared to the firft Magi-
cians, or the Inchanters of the molt early Times 5 and
the Anfwer is, as far as we can yet learn, that he did
not afTume any Shape or vifible Appearance at all :
whether it was his Modefty or his Policy is a Que-
llion has been a little, tho' not fully difcufs^d, an^
•" '
thole
of M A G 1 C K. ,37
ihofe that fpeak moft favourably of Satan, think ic
was the firft > for in the early Times of his Inti-
macy he might be loth perhaps to expofe himfelf
to his new Acquaintance J whereas afterwards, when
hebecame really a familiar Spirit, in thelitteral Senfe
of the Word, he made no Difficulty to converfe
vjith his Favourites more openly, fee and be feen j
of which in its Place.
But i^ this was not the Cafe, it feems to mc,
that at firft, and while being only a Night Viliter
he communicated himfelf by Vifion and Dream
only, there was no manner of Occafion for the Lo-
cality of his Perfon, and for a real Appearance
5
nor, if his Bufincfs was done, was ic material whe-
ther he delivcr'd it by his own Mouth, or by the
Voice of any of his trufly and well-beloved
Angels and Agents, who are certainly as capable to
officiate in his Place as if he was there in Perfon.
Befides, as much a Spirit as the Devil is, we have
Reafbn to believe he is fo far from being Omniprefenr,
that he would not be able to difpatch a thoufandth
Part of the Bufinefs he has upon his hands, if he had
not an innumerable number of Deputy Reprefenta-
tive Devils always at his hand, to execute his Corn-
millions, and make their Appearance for him, when
and as often as the meaneft of the Southfaying \nr
chancing Race calls him.
And for this Rcafon it might be, that AllAlhrahazeny
as is faid above, in the firlt Intimacies betwixt him
and the Favourite Spirit who fpoke to him in
Dream, had a Name given, by which he was to
be called three times at every Round of the Palm-
tree Circle 5 which when he had rehearfed, the
Devil^ (that is to fiy, that particular Deputy Devil
which was appointed to waic upon him) was always
to attend and be ready. Whether that faid parti-
cular Spirit was bound to his, due and daily Atten-
dance for that one Occafionj Hiftory has not yet
dc*
J38 A S Y S T E M
determined : I have only to fay, that if it was {o^
Friend Ali mufl be a Magician of feme Quality,
that had a whole Devil to attend him perfonally
and fingly, who was allowed to do no other
Bufinefs, but juft wait to receive his Orders, and
give back the Infl:ru6tions which jIU might Hand
in need of, unlefs perhaps now and then he might go
upon fome other Errands, where the Occafion was
extraordinary.
We are told, that in America^ and in fome Na-
tions in Africa^ the Magicians or Wizards and
Pawaws found Ways and Means to converfe with
Satan Face to Face, as particular Occafionsrequir'dj
and that from the Beginning of Time : for per-
haps his Converfation in thofe remote Countries
might be ajs antient as it was any where, ^gypt
and Arabia excepted.
Jt is faid alfo that, he docs appear in thofe Coun-
tries, and upon certain Times or Occafions, in hu-
man Shape, fometimes in one Pofturc, fometimes in
another, ^ Circumftances may vary > as fometimes
he appears angry and frightful, furrounded with
Fire, preceded with Tempeft, and the like terrify-
ing Objefts, to let the People know that he can
hurt them 5 fometimes in Smiles, and fweet fpicey
Perfumes, and preceded by Mufic and Melody iq
the Air, to let them know he is pleafed.
'Tis true, it was late in the World before we, in
thefe Parts, knew any thing of it j and it might be
fo alfo before he begun thofe Praftices there : they
were too grofe to go down with the firft Ages,
when the Knowledge of God was not fo entirely
obliterated from the Minds of Men as it was af-
terwards > But Idolatry had prevailed to fuch a de-r
gree in America^ that the Devil was perhaps the
only God they had heard any thing of for fome
^houfands of Years, But I return to my Subjeft.
of M A G I C K. 139
Except in thofe and fuch like remote and unac-
quainted Parts of the World, we do not find much
Evidence of the Magicians feeing or converfing
with evil Spirits, of whatever Kind or Quality,
in the Shapes of Men or Women : God's Angels
indeed, who are in facred Text called the Heaven-
ly Hoft^ are and have been frequently allowed to
make their Appearance, and have been fenc hither
on immediate and fpecial Bufinefs, as to Abraham^
to Jacoh^ to Mofes^ to the Father of John the Bap-
tift, to the Virgin Mary^ to the Shepherds at the
Birth, to our Saviour himfelf on divers Occafions,
and to the Women at the Sepulcher, at the Re-
furreftion, and at the Afcenfion.
Perhaps this may be the Reafon why the Devil
has kept his diftance 5 he remembers no doubt his
former Rencounters with Uriel and with Gabriel^
or other Angels, no matter who, mentioned by
Name in Mr. Milton^ and how they drove hint
about from one Part of the Wade to another, out
of Heaven, out of Paradife, and every where elfe,
where they and he happen'd to meet ; and doubt-
lefs he does not much care to rencounter them.
What Shape or Figure he appeared in when he
came to tempt his Maker and our Saviour, at that
time himfelf in a State of Perfonality as Flefh
and Blood, as it is not exprefled, fo I will not prcr
tend to make a Guefs at it: 'Tis plain when he
was at any time call out of the poor diftempcr'd
People by our Saviour, or by his Difciples, tho*
he came evidently out of the Demoniac or PoffefTed,
yet he did not come out vifibly and in Shape, but
walking off like a dete^cd Thief in the dark, and
imperceptible, he always play'd out of fight.
The fame Method I believe he took with z\\
forts of People in the World for fome Ages, efpe-
cially at the Beginning of Time 5 and would all our
poiTeflcd or profefTed Dealers with this cunning
MaT
I40 A S Y S r E M
Manager act in the Dark, and keep him to tbem-
felves, that we might not fee their Inftvu6tor, or be
acquainted with the Infl;ru61:ions, their Witchery and
Craft of Hell would, I believe, be much lefs hurt-
ful to the World than it is.
But now it feems as if our modern Magicians
a6Ved upon another footj that they do not go to
the Bev'il^ but the Devil comes to them > they do
not go to him in the Defarts and Retreats of the
Dark for Directions and Inftrudtions, but he ads
with them in Concert, and there is a kind of mu-
tual Cohabitation, they go on hand in hand, and
are Fellow-Agents, both Principals and both Ac-
celTaries, only with this ufual difference on the De^
virs fide, viz. if they happen to do any capital
Mifchief, fo as to bring them to the Gallows, he
always leaves the Hanging Part to them, there he,
as we fay, flips his Neck out of the Collar, and
is gone.
'I'his fubtle Agreement in Mifchief between
the Magician and the Spirit that a6ls with him, is
not at all for the Advantage of Mankind ; and the
Magicians of the former Mould feem to have been
much the lefs hurtful kind, for they generally
were known to be what they" pretended, and were
only made ufe of by People when they wanted 'em,
and for what was required of them j fo they had
their Pay and Wages of Unrighteoufnefs, and you
had done with them.
But here we converfe with the Men, knowing
nothing of what they are, and do not fee the Devil
that is within them > fo we deal with the Devil
at fecond hand, as we may call it, that is, we talk
to him in difguife, make Bargains and Contra6bs
with him, and that fome of the worft kind, by
the Agency of thefe Magicians , and fee not
the evil Spirit who is all the while both Di-
redor and Principal in all the Affair. Thus far for
thofe
of MAGIC K i^i
thofe Magicians who really deal infecrec with him,
and this is that Magick which we call the Black y^rf^
that is to fay a fccret undifcover'd Confpiracy between
Satan and thofe Agents of his which apply to him
for Diredion, and then their afting again by thofc
Dircdions, to abufe, impofe upon, and deceive
Mankind.
CHAP. VI.
Of^'iZ'bo'Ui'ere the firji Trackers of Mngick,
as a "Diabolical Art^ and how it was hmidcd
on to the ^Egyptians and Phoenicians, where
it was fir
ft openly encouraged,
THE Writers upon this Subjedt before me
feem to have all been at a lofs to fix the O-
riginal of Magick as an Art Diabolical^ and they
would fain have us believe it was in Pradice in
the Antediluvean World. This I have not denied,
nor Ihall I deny it flill > but granting the Devil to
have a Conqueft upon the firlt Woman, and by her
Weaknefs and Treachery drawing her Husband in-
to the fame Snare, we may give up all their Race
for as black as Hell could make rhem : And indeed
the facred Text defcribes them in Terms as black
as can well be exprcflcd, Gen. vi, 12. God looked
upon the Earth and behold it was corrupty for all
FleJJj had corrupted his way upon the Earth -y and
ver. 13. 'The Earth is filled with Violence \ and ver.^^,
fpeaking of Man, the Imagination of the Thought of
his Heart was only Ei-il continually-y and the Wick^
ednefs of Man was great upon the Earth : upon this
Account, I fay, I gave up all that Race in the Be-
ginning of this Work > and be it fo, or be it only
fuppofcd to be fo, 'tis much the fame, nor is ic
worth
141 A S Y S T E M
worth difputing with any Body 5 if theZ)^w7 had the
Management oif them, as 'tis evident he had, much
lefs could not be expeded, let that part go.
But my Queilion has been all along, not what
was done hefore but fmce the Deluge, and how did
Satan introduce himfelf to the pft-diluvean Ages,
•when and where, with whom, and in what man-
ner did he make his firft Acquaintance and break-
ing in upon Mankind for a fecond Pofleilion, or
Management of Art?
I mentioned Zoroafter {lain in Battle by Semiramis^
and Prometheus and others, and very early they were j
and I ftand by my Account of them, that they
were the firft Magicians^ as the Word or ;Terni
Magician imply'd a Man of Learning, of Wit, and
more than common Underftanding, fearching after
Knowledge, ftudying the Rudiments and firft Pre-
cepts and Principles of Philcfophy. But we are
now in Search after another fort of People, who,
tho' they were Searchers into Knowledge too, yet
look'd into it in another manner, and for other
Purpofes, namely, who fearched deeper into things,
and into deeper things, I mean fearching into HELL
it fclfj who began firft to enter upon Diabolical
Enquiries into the infernal Myfteries and Arts of
the Devily and where thofe begun it is not fo eafy
to find out.
Some Authors, as Serenus^ and Cajftanus from him,
and the learned Sir Walter Raleigh from both, hand
down this fabulous Original for our Speculation^
viz, that Ham or Cham the Son of ISIoah having
praftifcd thofe fuperftitious and facrilegious Arts
(I cake their own Words) before the Flood, and
knowing that he could bring no Book or Memorial
of that nature into the holy VefTel where his Life
was to be fecured by the goodnefs of his Maker,
and wherein he was to remain with his righteous
and godly Father, caufed the Ruks and Precepts to
be
tf M A G 1 C K. 145
be graved in Metal, and in hard Stone, which
Ihould receive no Impreflion from the Water.
But this is fuch an evident Fiftion, and full of
fo many Abfurditics and Contradidions, as well as
Falftioods, that 'tis not only unlikely it fhould, but
impoffible it can be true.
YovFirft^ Where were thofe Plates left ? If they
were to be preferved in the Ark, 'tis certain Noah
who had the Superintendency of the whole Build-
ing, and of every thing that was brought inco ir,
or to be admitted, would much lefs have admitted
copper Plates to be brought in there, or Tables of
Stone with fuch Abominations engraven on them,
than he would have taken in written Books, if fuch
had been then in ufe.
Secondly^ Had Cham been fuch a Perfon, fo far
engaged in a Correfpondence with Hell, we may
reafonably fuppofe God, who for the Reafons taken
from the Sins of the reft of Mankind deftroyed
the whole World, would never have fpared him,
and fo by him laid the Foundation of the Devil's
fecond Kingdom, and of his debauching the World
with Sorcery and Witchcraft : nor do we read
that Cham or Ham was curfed by his Father on any
fuch Account, but for Sins adually committed af-
ter the Deluge, and after their coming out of the
Ark 5 but to charge Ham with Sorcery and Diabo-
lical Pradlices before the Flood, is a grofs begging
the Queftion, and by no means to be admitted
without good Evidence.
And again, the Writing and Graving upon
hard Stones, Metal, ^c, requires a Proof that there
was any fuch thing as the Knowledge and Ufe of
Letters among Men before the Floods which after
the ftridteft Enquiry is not yet afcertained, much
lefs agreed upon by Men of Learnings the fame
having not been preferved to Mankind after the
Deluge, which 'tis highly probable would have
7 been.
i44 A S Y S T E M
been, if fuch a thing had been in iife, the Know-
ledge having been both innocent and ufeful.
I'hirdly^ If fuch Writing or Engravement were
made by Cham^ or any one elfe, where were they
laid, and how found again ? when, by the uni-
verfal Convulfions fufFer'd during the Flood, not
the Icaft Veftigcs, Ruins or Remains of Cities or
Towns were to be feen upon the Surface of the
Earth, but all was huddled together in the gene-
ral Confufion of the Parts, and either buried and
overwhelmed in the Body of the Earth, or driven
down by the rapid Currents which followed at
the going off of the Floods and it feems ftrange
that thefe Stones or Plates could be found, when
every thing elfe was loft and overthrown 5
when the Surface being perfc6lly new, no one
Part of the World could be known from another,
much lefs any Place be known by the Situation
which it had before.
There are many more Abfurdities in the Cafe
as it is propofcd5 but I muft not dwell too long
in a Place, that have fo long a Journey to go.
Zoroafter is the next to whom they would a-
fcribe the Magick Art j but I have proved himi
to be a very honeft Man, and a wife Man, pro-
perly fpeaking, in my former Chapters, and that
he was employed in a much better and honefter
Study, fuch as in difcovering the Nature of Herbs
and Plants, Metals and Minerals, precious Stones
and Jewels j that he invented the Do6brines and
firft Principles of natural and moral Philofophy;
and many ufeful and beneficial Parts of Know-
ledge for the Good of Mankind 5 the Power of
Simpathies and Antipathies, and their various Work-
ings and Obje6]:s> in all which I take Abraham alfo,
who was flill before him, to have been efpecially
famous J and that 'ris probable Abraham was parti-
cularly inllru6ted by Noah himfelF, for 'tis evident
that
of M A G I C K. 14;
that Alraham Was upwards of fifty Years old wheri
Noah died.
To come off of all this, there are others who
make another Zoroafler^ a real and Diabolical Magi-
cian, who was not (lain by Semiramis^ as that wife
Prince Zoroafler was > but on the other hand, ha-
ving been teaching his Difciples the Art of raifing
and converfing with Spirits, was by one of
them taken away out of his School, all his Scho-
lars looking on 5 or, if you will have it in a modern
Style, he raifed the Devil^ to ihew his Difciples a
Teft of his Art 5 and the Z)m/ carried him away
in the face of them all, to give them a Teft of his
Power : which (by the way) was but poor Encou-
ragement at that time, for any one of them to turn
Magician $ and for that Reafon, and knowing the
Den)tl to be no Fool, makes me give the lefs heed
to that Part of the Story.
Other Writers, of whom Jofephus is one, (whofe
Credit, I muft always premife, goes but a very lit-
tle way with me) tells us, that Seth the Son of
yldam firft difcover'd the Planets or wandering Stars
with their Motions, Influences, Revolutions, i^c.
that thofe with feveral other ufeful Branches of
Aftronomic Knowledge were handed down by Tra-
dition to Noah^ and by him to the new Worlds
and that then coming from Noah immediately to
Abraham^ to Zoroafter and others, they were hand-
ed from them to Pofterity, as we find it at thi^
Day.
But all this is nothing to the purpofe, that is t"'
fay, nothing to our Diabolick Magick, nor doe>
it give any Light into the grand Queftion, Who
was the firft Author of that kind of Study j who
was Satan's firft Correfpondent in the new World^
or firft dealt with the Devil after the Flood ? I
cannot think indeed that the Devil fuffcred Man-
feifid to live long unmolefted by him, or that M^nt-
1/ kind
1^6 A s r s r E M
kind could go on long without fome Bufinefs be-
tween them : they would be both eager to renew
the Acquaintance, and reftore the ancient Familia-
rity 5 and it could not be long before they found
fome means or other to bring it to pafsj for Lovers
you know will meet, whatever are the Difficulties
which firft obftruft: and efpecially the great Artift
on his Side had many dark Defigns in view, and
new Foundations to lay for the Overthrow of a
rifing Generation, which required to be laid deep
and Ibong, and the fooner they were begun, the
better for him.
As to Cham being the Author of Magick in the
new World, that indeed I cannot grant, that is to
fay, not as the Ancients bring in the Story j namely,
that he invented the Seven liberal Sciences, and
wrote them in fourteen Pillars of Brafs or Stone,
i^c. as above 5 that Cham^ as he was, notwithftand-
ing the Curfe he incurred by his ill Behaviour to
his Father, one of the immediate Progenitors of the
new Race, and particularly of thofe great and
mighty Nations the jEgyptians^ Arahians^ Africans^
and Phcenicians^ among whom all human Wifdom
and Learning firft flourifhed, and indeed firft be-
gan J fo I doubt not but he was capable to inftru6t
them in much of the antediluvean Knowledge, and
that of even the beft things, and did fo : That he
reigned afterward in jEgypt a very long while, is
confirmed by all the antient Writers j particularly
in the Catalogue of the Mgyptlan Kings, of which
Cham was certainly the firft, they are faid to reign
and fucceed one another thus,
Cham peopled Egypt the Year of the World 1847,
191 Years after the Flood.
Ofyris ox Mizraim the Son of Chum^ 2008, }fz
Years after the Flood.
N, B. This was the King who elevated Jofephj
and who built the Pyramids, not for Tombs
and
of M A G 1 C K. 147
and Monuments only, but for Magick, that is,
Aftronomick Obfervations, as Semiramis did
the great Tower of Babylon.
Prom hence it appears that Cham came to jEgypt
when he was near three hundred Years old j fup-
pofe him to be an hundred Years old when he
came out of the Ark, which was the moft, for his
elder Brother Sent was no more, and that he reign'd
in Mgypt one hundred and fixty one Years, in
which time he made the Egyptians and the j^ra-
hiansj and alfo the Phoenicians^ for they were all
his Offspring, very polite Nations.
The Arabians were his Pofterity by his Son Chus.
The Phoenicians by his Son Canaan whom Noab
curfed.
The ^Egyptians by his Son Mizraim^ which was
the King Ofyris above.
The Libyans and Ethiopians by his Sons Phut and
Lud.
So that in fhort, Cham was fo exceeding fruitful,
that he peopled all Africa^ and fince that, from
Africa all America^ and thofe particularly populous
Parts of Afia called Arabia and Syria,
I expert my light-headed Readers, whofe Wits
are too volatile for this remote Story, will call this
a dry Subjed, tho' to me I confefs *tis juft the
contrary j but as it is too grave for them, I will
endeavour it ihall not be too long for them > fo to
oblige Folly, and I am fure to the Diflike of the
truly wife and folid Heads, I leave off before I have
done, that I may not abate that moft fafhionablc
Cuftom of writing moft of that which is plcafant,
and Icaft of that which is profitable j fo willing is
your humble Servant to be a Man of Mode, and
fuch a Weight does he put on thofe who have real-
ly no Weight in themfelves.
In favour then of the Ufage of the Times, and
tfpecially of the Genius and Temper I mention
L 1 above.
,48 A S Y S T E M
above, I am to leave off thofe grave tho* ufeful Di-
greflions, and come back to the Progrefs of Ma-
gick, the particular Subje6b before me.
That the Devil was the Aggreflbr in his new
Correfpondence with Mankind is not to be doubted,
but that is not fo much our Bufinefs j as to know
when this Correfpondence began, who was the firft
among Men that carried on the clandeftine Deal-
ing, and how it was managed on both Sides.
We have cleared Cham of the Charge, as far as
Probabilities will go in his Favour^ and the Truth
is, Cham grew quickly too great, was above the
Occafion for it, and being the firft, and perhaps
the greateft Monarch upon Earth, even before
JSlinus or Bell {Baal) he had no need of turning
Conjurer and Magician, which became prefently
the Work of a meaner Race of Men than Cham%
for the Magicians, efpecially fpeaking of them now
as Witches and Inchanters, were not Kings and
Empciors, but the Servants of Kings and Empe-
rors 5 kept and maintained for the wicked Works
and Services which they did for them.
Indeed the Magicians which I mentioned at
firft, were Worfliippers of the divine Being, or
eminent Examples of the Homage Men owed
to the true God 5 nay, and even after fome
time were Teachers of divine things too, tho'
under the miftaken Mediums of Idols and Images
;
Thefc Magi^ or Magicians, as I have obferved,
were at firlt fo reverenced and honoured by
the Nations they ferved, as often to be made Go-
vernours of the Common- wealth -, Publick Be-
nerfldors having the moft Right to the publick
Honours and Advancements in thofe Countries
where they had been accepted for their Merits.
Hence it feems moft natural, that all Kings
fhould be Patriots, feeing the very Name and Dig-
nity, much more the Office, began in the Thing 5
but
of M A G I C K. 145,
but that by the ways ^ow far the Patriot and the
Royalty go together in thefe Days, how the Name
and the Dignity correfpond, lee the Kings of the
Earth examine, whofe Bufinefs it is to mend it
where it is not fo, and to let it be more known
where it is.
It is then pretty hard to find out who were the
firft Magicians, taking the Word Magick as I now
underftand it, viz. in the worft Senfe; and yet it
does not feem to be very long after the Flood be-
fore we {hall find fome of them at workj for in the
immediate Reign after Cham^ that is, in the Reign
of Mizraim or Ofyris^ which Hillory makes to be
the Pharaoh whofe Dream Jofeph interpreted, and
who reigned two hundred fixty one Years 5 in his
Reign 'tis evident there were fuch People. See the
Place, Gen. xli. 8. He fent and called for all the Ma^
gicians of yEgypt, and all the wife Men thereof.
It is true it does not appear pofitively that thefe
were Magicians of the worfl: Sort, but it feems to
be fo, becaufe Heaven referved from them the re--
vealing to Pharaoh the Interpretation of his Dreams j
which however might be to preferve the Honour
to Jofeph^ and to make way for all the great Events
which followed J but ftill, I fay, we do not know
that here were none of the prefent kind of wicked
Magicians, and we have much reafon to believe
there were.
But within the Space of about two hundred Years
after, we are fure to find them > nay, the Text is
plain, they were there when Mofes and Aaron ftood
before the laft Pharaoh who held the People ia
Captivity 5 for then they imitated the Miracles of
Mofes and ylaron by their Inchantments, that is, by
Sorcery and Witchcraft \ now even this was but a
little above eight hundred Years from the Flood 1
and thus much may fufficc for the Chronology of
of Witchcraft and Sorcery,
h 3 Bu^
,/
JO A SYSTEM
Being thus come to a tolerable Certainty as to
Time, when this Art was firft pra6bifed, wc fhall
be led more diredly to the Perfons, by entring
a little into an Enquiry after the Pra«Si:ice, that is,
the Manner made ufe of in thofe early Times of the
Art 5 for by difcovering what they did, we fhall dif-
cover alfo who did it : They a6ted certainly from
the Beginning, by certain Myftick or concealed
Conjurations, fuch as uncouth Noifes and Sounds,
llrange Geftures, Poftures, and barbarous Magick
Noifes, of which we fhall fay more in their Place.
But what, fay our Enquirers, were thofe things
called Inchantments, which conftitute what is called
the Black Art^ or the Craft Magical ? The Text
fays the Magicians did fo and fo, by their InchanU
nients'i that is, whatever Wonders or Miracles the
two Prophets of God wrought by the Finger and
Power of God, thefe Men imitated by the Power
of the DeviL
Thofe Inchantments I take to confift of certain
agreed Geftures and Noifes, certain barbarous
Names and Words, and fuch inexplicable Terms of
hellifti Art, which upon Concert between Hell and
the helliih Agent, are to be fo and fo underftood
between them 5 on exprefling of which, and mak^
ing fuch Circles and Figures on the Ground as is
agreed, the evil Spirit with whom they have con^
Certed the Affair beforehand, fhall appear, and ap-^
pear too in fuch and fuch Form as they appoint to
bring him out inj and this I give as a brief Defini-
tion of what they call Inchantment.
And here, not to preach upon the Point, or to
infift that even what is thus aded muft be by the
JPower of Heaven concurring, for this is what all
that are not Atheifts acknowledge j but, I fay, not
to dwell on this Part, I make fo free with our
Fellow-Conjurers as to fay, they put a great deal of
Cheat upon the World, in pretending to a£b by
fu-
of M A G I C K, ij
fupernatiiral Powers in thofe Inchantments, let
them be of whac fort they will, whereas they really
a6bed much by Cheat and Trick, Legerdemain or
Slight of Hand, and pretended the Prince of the
Air, when he had nothing to do in it> that how-
ever fome of thofe things were certainly by his,
the Devil's Aid and Aflillance, as it was with Alt
Alhrahaxen^ and has been with others to this Day,
which we fhall not and cannot deny, yet 'tis appa-
rent much of it has been, as I faid, meer juggling
and deceiving.
As the Devil has not tied himfelf up to Methods
in his a6bing with Mankind, fo neither have the
Magicians of the World kept to any certain Me-
thods, as to a ilated Rule in their Adings among
us, but have, on many Occafions, made ui'e of ait-
fering Methods 5 1 mean as to their Management
between the Devil and them •, and alfo as to their
apparent putting the Belief of it upon us.
How we Ihall do to know and diftinguifh when
the Magician puts the Devil upon us, and when he
only a6i:s the Juggler, would be worth while to
find out 5 and did either the Devil or the M^^gician
a6t by any flated Rules and Methods, we might
make fome Judgment about it 5 but on the othef
hand, they are fo much and fo often both Devils and
both Jugglers, that 'tis very difficult to fix them.
For Example, in their coming to Audience, ob*
taining Admittance, or call it what you will, the
great Queftion is, How do they let the Devil know
they want to fpeak with him ? either he is always
at their Elbow, and can hear them whenever they
call, where-ever they are, and on whatever Occa-
fion i and that would be to afcribe either great
things to him, as a Perfon, or a great N.'mber to
him, as an Hoft.
Be that as it will, 'tis certain thefe People have
certain concerted Terms agreed, as I faid above, up-
on repeating which he is to appear to theois and
L 4 aft
ija A S Y S T E M
aft for them as they fhall agree, and thofc I call
Inchantments. There arc alfo other agreed Signals,
upon making which, the Devil^ according to the
Terms agreed on between them, flaall a6t in fuch
and fuch a manner without appearing j and thofe
I call Charms.
Thus, it feems, the Devil and Dr. Boreman agreed
.the Matter 5 the good Dodor having a mind to
pay home an old Jeft upon a young Gentleman that
had abufed a poor Girl, a (>lientof his> theDoftor,
it feems, told her, that if fhe could perfwadc him
XQ get into her Smock upon their next Intimacy,
he would certainly agree to marry herj upon which
the poor Girl makes herfelf a new one, and very
large for the Purpofe, and getting the young Fel-
low into it, the Do6tor, as was faid, laid fuch a
Charm upon it, or the Devil by his Order, that
the Fellow could never gee out of it till he gave
the Girl a Note under his Hand to marry her the
jiext Morning, and accordingly did it.
If the Story be Fad, as is loudly affirm'd, the
JDevil afted upon the honeft fide it feems 3 which I
do not however charge upon him as a thing that
he is often guilty of > but now and then, for the
Credit of his Employers, he may be allowed to go
out of his Way a little.
What thofe things called Charms are, and how
made ufe of, may occafion fome Speculation as we
go on, and when we come to fpeak of Charms
as they are ufed between the Magicians and the Peo*
ple> but I am now upon the Subjeft of Charms
and Inchantments, as they relate to the proper In-
tercourfe between the Magician and the Devil, or
the Spirit whom he a£l:s with, or by or for whom
he afts, for 'tis not eafy to exprefs it right.
I fay, 'tis not eafy to fay in what Capacity the Ma-
gician is to be undcrftood to aft. i. Whether WITH
(that is) in Concert and Agreement, or, z. as wc
might fay, in Partncrfhip with the Devil; or whe-
ther
cf M A G 1 C K. lyj
ther in a fuperior Orb, as a Magician of Quality,
making ufe of an attendant, obfcquious, commanded
Z)m/, always at his call, to do what he bids him,
jump over his Stick, run and go^ fetch and carry
like a Dog, as fome eminent Magicians of Stare
have been laid to ads or as St.Dunftan^ St. Francis^
the Abbot of Crowland^ and others did by him,
who they tell us fet him to work, fent him of
Errands, made him ring the Bell to Vefpers, fwecp
the Church, and a thoufand good things the ler-
viceable Devil did for them, if his good Hu-
mour is not bely'd by the Priefts knavery, and
Satan charg'd with more Complaifance for 'em, than
ever he was guilty of: Or, i,. Whether the Devil
is Mafter, which I muft own is more likely, and
the Magician Servant 5 and then he does not aft
the Devil^ but the Devil a6ts him, and makes him
do every thing he bids him> I fay all thefe arc
doubtful Points, and not yet fully underftood by'
us, or at lead not eafily.
But be it which of thefe it will, there mufl be
fome concerted Terms of come and call between
the Devil and his Correfpondents j like Ships at
Sea, they muftconverfeby Signals, they muft know-
when to meet, and when tofummons for a meetings
when to appear, and when to difappear j and to do
this, is one of the conftituting Parts of Magick 5
for without it the Magician is as good as no body,
and the Devil in fliorc would appear of no ufe to
him.
In fome Parts of India they alledge to this Day,
that heistalk'd with in theapparent Shapeof aMan,
and in the Habit of their Prielts> but that is not the
Bufinefsi they add that whenever they want tofpeak
with him, they go up to fuch and fuch Mountains
in Troops or Affembliesi fuch as ours at Ne-w^
Hall perhaps, only v/ith fome fpecifick Differences,
which I might mention but that they are too
trifling
,j4 A S Y S T E M
trifling to trouble you with. When they are all
together, they call him with a little Kettle-Drum,
juft as I told you the good old Wives hive their
Bees, fave that they beat it on the wrong fidej
then they pronounce fome Words which they call
Charms, and the Devil comes without fail.
It is hard to find out in Hiftory, what Words
thofc were, that were us'd for Charms in jEgyptj
and Arabia^ between the Devil and the Magicians
for fo many Agesj it is certain they difFer'd in dif-
fering Countries, and 'tis as certain they difFer'd as
the feveral Perfons a6i:ed together or apart j but
I am as much at a lofs to find out what the Devil
fhould mean by fuffering thofe Words, or any
Words at all, to charm, call, awaken or alarm him,
as I am to know what the Words wercj but at
prefent let us think of the Words.
The Greeks have left us a Word, which was us'd
by the Magicians of Antiquity among them, upon
thefe and many more fuch Occafions. This is that
famous Trine, or Triangular Word call'd Ahraca"
dahra^ which drawn out in its Equilateral Sides
ftands thus.
ABRACADABRA
ABRACADABR
ABRACADAB
ABRACADA
ABR A C AD
ABRAC A
A B R A C
AB R A
ABR
AB
A
There is abundance of learned Puzzle among the
Ancients to find out the Signification of this
Word 3 the fubtle Poilcioa of the Letters gave a
kia4
of M A G I C K. lyj
kind of Reverence to them, becaufe they read ic
as it were every way, upwards and downwards,
backwards and forwards, and many will have it ftiil
that the Devil put them together: Nay, they be-
gan at laft to think it was old Legion's Sirname, and
whenever he was call'd by that Name, he ufcd to
come very readily j for which reafon the old Wo-
men in their Chimney-corners would be horribly
afraid of faying it often over together, for if they
fhould fay it a certain number of times, they had
a Notion it would certainly raife the DeviL
They fay on the contrary, that it was invented
by one Bafilides a learned Greeks that it con-
tained the great and awful Name of the Divinity, and
that it was ufed for many Years for the oppoling
the Spells and Charms of the Pagans j that is, the
Diabolical Spells and Charms of the Pagan Magi-^
cians.
But be this as it will, it fell into Contempt in
after- Ages, and was ufed by the Magicians them-
felvesj fo that its containing, or being intended to
contain the Name of God^ feeras to me to be a
Pretence only, to add a kind of Veneration to the
Word J whereas it it now drop'd, only that fome
of our old Women, and quack Magicians^ ufe it
for a Spell or Charm, as they would have it call'd,
to cure Agues, being written on a piece of Parch-
ment, and hang'd about the Neck of the afili6ted
Perfon.
It would be nothing but crowding our Work
with old Stories, to colle6fc together what they call
Spells and Charms, which our People here make
ufe of, (where-cver they had them) to cure Diftem-
pers. I know an old Book-ridden Bunyanift^ that
is to fay, a Baptift Preacher in Beclfordfiire^ who
cur'd Agues, by only faying fome Words, while he
gave the Patient a piece of Paper to pur. mro his
Pockets others I have l^nown cur'd by laying
fome
t^6 A S Y S r E M
fome Words only, and giving them nothing at alL
I could give you many Examples, and you will find
many more in the learned Colledions of Mr. Auhery^
and others, where in particular there is the Que-
Hion anfwer'd, Why faying fome Words which
have no Signification, and which neither the Per-
Ibn to whom they are faid, or the Perfon himfelf
who fays them, can underftand, fhould work a Cure j
and the Anfwer is, becaufe the Gods underftood
what the Perfon meant, who firft implor'd their
Aid in thofe Words, and to which they have- flill
regard.
This fhews a little, what I am ^bringing all
thefe things toj namely, that this was the Remains
of the old Pagan Magick, and is all derivM from
it, tho' perhaps it is pra6bis'd with lefs crimi-
nal Correfpondence than it was then, the People
that now do thefe things not knowing what they
fay, or to whom they fay it, yet certainly the thing
is the fame.
And this too gives us a light into the ancint Pra-
flrices of the Magicians in Arabia^ and JEgyp^ and the
Nature of thofe things which the Scripture calls
Jnchantmentsj and how, and to what ufes thofe
Inchantments were obtained and apply'd. take The
whole in this fummary Account, which I gather
from the exacteft Obfervation of the ufage of thofe
Times, and of the behaviour of the People in the
following Ages.
Of the Nature and Original of Inchant-
ments,
The Story of the Devil Sind Alt Alhrahazen the Sa^^
hean or Per/tan^ {lands as a good Foundation j wc
have another without a Name, an Mgyptian^ 1 will not
add a Name by way of Invention^ becaufe I will nox.
of M A G 1 C K. ,j7
put my Sanftion to the Truth of all the Particulars,
but the Story is of the fame Ufe, whether one
Word of the Fad be true or no. And fo, the' I
might take up fome time with Vouchers for the
Relation, I leave it upon yotir Hands as a current
Tradition, for thofe things are too ancient for
Quotation of any fort.
N. B, There is no room to queflion, but that
in Arahia^ -^gJPU S)riaj and thofe Countries,
where fo much Magick was at firft pra<5bis'd,
and where the Devil's Correfpondence with
Mankind was begun, where Magick was in
its Perfection for fo many Ages, and praftis'd
with fuch apparent Succefs, there are a great
many ftrange Stories current to this Day, and
the Mouths of the People are ftill fiU'd with
Traditional Accounts of the Wonders of the
Ancients 5 their ftrange Perfomances, and the
Effects of their Magical Skill 5 the People are
full of them, and even our Europeans, when they
travel into thofe Countries, bring away innu-
merable Tales of this kind, which lofe little in
the coming, as perhaps this among the reft.
The Account I am now going to give, relates to
a Magician of great Note it feems, tho', as I have
faid, I have not his Name, whom the Devil^ if it
was the Devil^ managed much in the fame way as
the other, and 'tis of like ufe in the Cafe before us.
For as it confirms the DeviPs Condu6t to be much
the fame with Mankind, tho' in different Places,
fo it ftiews us that the fame occafions fuit him to
make ufe of : Before, he frighted the Sabeans with a
Meteor or Ball of Fire in the Air 5 Now he alarms
jEgypt with a Comet 5 either of them things of no
Signification in themfelves, and which we in thefc
days can look on without running to Conjurers
for their Interpretation: But in thofe younger
days
,j8 A S Y S T E M
days they were furprifing and terrifying, and there-*
fore very proper to amufe the World with, and
to make even Kings, as well as People, fend for
their Magicians^ to enquire after the Events of
them.
In like manner we find in both thefe Accounts,
the Devil nor only making ufe of Dreams for di-
flurbing the Fancies of the People, as well their
Kings as others; but we find him in both w^m^
that Power peculiar to him as a Spirit, namely, of
caufing People to Dream of this, or that, (whatever
he pleafes) on purpofe to furnifli a Counterfeit In-
terpretation to his Favourite Southfayer, and raife
his Reputation at Court, in order to ferve his (Satan\)
Intereft in other fubfequent DeluGons : But I refer to
the Story.
KnArahan of Ancient Fame, and Eminent in the
JEgyptian Court for his great Skill in South-fay-
ing, having long ftudied the Knowledge of hidden
and fecret things, and arriv'd to great Skill in the
Motions and Revolutions of the Stars and Planets,
had made himfelf famous on that Account : Having
alfo much ftudied the Appearances and Nature of
the Planets, Vapours, Meteors, and other the
Phenomena of the upper Regions, from whence he
made great and accurate Improvements in Natural
and Experimental Philofophy j he alfo ftudied and
underftood the nature of Plants, Flowers, Drugs,
Gums, £5?^. and the Influences of the Hea-
venly Bodies upon them, giving them Virtue, Co-
lour, Aromatick Flavour, and moft healing and
comforting Powers-, and by this Knowledge, our
Learned Arabian obtained the Fame of a moft excel-
lent Phyfician, as well as of a wife Man, and
Southfayer, and was had in univerfal Efteem,
but efpecially I fay in the Court of Pharaoh King
of Mgypt,
N.B.
of M A G 1 C K. ijt^
iV. B, They do not tell us which Pharaoh this
was, fo that the Chronology of this Ara^
hian is fomething defedive in that Partj but
neither is this very material, becaufe much of
it will bedifcover'd by the other Circumftances.
Unwearied in his Diligence and Studies, and
eaten up with the Defire of Knowledge, this^r^^;^;^
Dodor (for fuch we fhall now call him) not at all
abating his Search after Wifdom by the Fame al-
ready obtain'd j but feeing daily that there was an
Abyfs of Knowledge yet behind, and that all he
knew was as nothing, compared to what he was ftill
ignorant of, he purfued his Search into Nature
with the utmoft Application: All Night, yea many
Nights together, he continued upon the Hills, and
in the Defarts, whither he wandered j for Mgypt is
a plain Country for many Leagues together, from
Memphis where he redded. I fay, all Night he fpent
in looking up into Heaven, and all Day in poring
upon the Earth, fearching into the Secrets of Na-
ture, and trying and proving the Virtues of the
Plants and Fruits, and other Rarities, the Produd:
of that rich and fertile Soil : And thus he wailed
and exhaufted his vital and animal Strength,
to feed and nourifli the Strength of his Mind, and
fill his Head and Heart with Divine Wifdom and
Underllanding. Thus far it muft be acknowleg'd
he was a true Original Magician, and a Man of
Merit as well as Fame.
It happened in his wandering through the De-
fart, to the Station where he ulually fix'd his Place
of Aftronomick Obfervations, that he faw rife up
out of the Sea, Northward from his Situation, a
Body of Fire, which at firft feem'd to him one
plain Flame, making an oblong Square, of an im-
menfe Length and Breadth. But as it afcended with
the ordinary Motion of the Heavens, or rather ac-
cording
iSo A S r S T E M
cording to the new Syftems^ the ordinary Motion of
the Earth, it lefTen'd in its apparent Dimenfions^
and alfo came to bear a more regular Form than be^
forej till coming to its full Height it appcar'd af-
ter fome time to be a Comet or Blazing-ftar^ which
was vifible above the Horizon, as is ufual in fuch
Bodies, for about twenty fix Days (or Nights rather)
fucceffively, and then was feen no more.
This Appearance being entirely new, furmount-
ed all the powers of his Underflanding,and extreme-
ly perplcx'd him 5 and being one Night more than
erdinarily afflifted about it, he broke out into
Words to this purpofe, tho' not dire61:ed to any of
the Gods, not knowing it feems which of them
were able to inform him, and which not. Of that
fome of the blejfed Inhabitants of the unseen
World would affift me in fearching out the Myfiery
of this firange Phenomenon,
He was the more anxious about it, becaufe, at
his return to his own Houfe at Memphis^ he had an
Account, that Pharaoh had fummon'd all the Ma-
gicians and wife Men of Mgypt^ to give him their
fcveral Opinions of the meaning of this flrange Ap-
pearance i for the King had either feen ir, or heard
of it from others. The Appearance of it, as I
have faid, being conftant for about twenty fix
days after the Arabian had firfl difcover'd itj and
the wife Men differing very much in their Accounts
of ir, their Judgment had encreas'd the King'^
Curiofity very much 5 bcfides, the Arabian South-
fayer had notice given him, that he would receive a
Summons or Order to come to the King's Palace
upon the fame Occafion.
Being thus, as is faid, extremely puzzled with
this Affair, and believing perhaps that he fhould
do no more when he came to the King, than dif^
cover his Ignorance, as the refl of the Southfayers
and the Magicians had done, he was very uneafyy
andi
of M A G I C K. 16
«nd refolv'd to retire into Mthiopia for fome time,
till the Enquiry might be over> and as he was not
fent for to the King, when the refl of the Magici-
cians were, it would be no Impeachment of his
Fame, that he was gone abroad for fome time.
'J. One Day, while this publick Uncafinefs lafted,
as he was walking towards his ufual Obfervatory as
above, there joynM him a grave and venerable old
Man, who faluting him with the ufual Blefling of the
Times, and in the Arahick Tongue, falls into Dif-
courfe with him upon divers Subje6bs, fuch as feem'd
to fhew that the Stranger was, like himfelf, an En-
quirer after Knowledge. Among the reft of their
Difcourfe, the Arabian particularly gave the Stran-
ger an Account of the late Appearance which he
had feen, as above.
They walk'd together till they came to the Foot
of a gently rifing Mount, on the Top of which
the Arabian had ere6ted for himfelf a little Hut, or
Bower of Palm-tree Leaves 5 here the Stranger
feeing him ready to go up to the Hill, ofFer'dto take
his Leave, but he entreated him to go up to his
Obfervatory (as he call'd it^ with him, and to ftay
with him that Night, that he might fhew him the
faid Appearance, and that in the Morning he fhould
go whither he pleas'd.
When they were come up to the Afcent of the
Hill, the Day being Ihut in, -and the time for Ob-
fervation of the Stars come on, the Heavens being
clear, and the Moon abfent under the Horizon,
leaving them a fair View of the Stars, perfectly
bright and clear; the Stranger ask'd him, in what
part of the Hemifphere he had {czw the Comet rife
and fet, and what was the particular Sphere of its
Motion; all which he fnew'd him m 'ft exadly,
and at laft the Comet it felf, not forgetting at the
fame time to let the Stranger know, how anxious
and concern'd he had been to undcrftand the Na-
M ture
i6t A S T S r E M
ture and Reafon, as well as the Import of the Ap#
pearanceof fuch a Body, and to what particular Na-
tion it had a Reference 5 and at laft told him, how
vehemently he had call'd out to the Gods, to give
him fomc wife Interpreter, to inllru£t him in the
Nature of fuch Appearances, and of that in parti-
cular.
The Stranger took no notice of his knowing that
he had done fo, but began with a Philofophical
Difcourfe of Comets 5 as of Stars, which, in their
ordinary Revolutions, are but feldom vifiblcj and
therefore when they do appear, fays he, it is generally
fuppofed that they import great Changes and Trou-
bles among Men, which, fays he, may in one
Senfe be true, becaufc they frequently are very
much the occaiion of them.
But, fays the Arabian^ how fhall we know when
they have Important Significations, and when not,
and to what Nations and Countries their Significa-
tions are dircded, and which are not concern'd in
them ?
Says the Stranger, There are Methods to know
thefe things alfo j and the Gods, when they arc
minded to communicate thefe things, do it their
own way. But Father^ fays the Arabian^ if you can
relieve my Thought in the Signification of the
prefent Difficulty, pray be fo kind j for I acknow-
ledge my Ignorance, and that which perplexes m«
the more about it, is, that I cxpe£t to be call'd be-
fore Pharaoh to-morrow, whom I reverence in the
higheft manner. I befeech you inform mc what I
am to call this ftrange new Appearance, and what
are its Confequenccs to the World.
Here the Stranger looking upon him with a fmiling
Afped, reply'd > I have great Regard for your be-
ing efteem'd by Pharaoh^ and fhall let you into the
Knowledge of what you defire, for your farther
good Fortune. Know then, added he, with an
Afped
of M A G I C K. x6^
Afpeft all fliining and pleafant, ^ The Appearance
' we now fee, is a Comet or Blazing- ftar, the like of
* which has not been feen in ^^7/>; in the Memory of
' the moft ancient Man in the Kingdom, which
* makes the wife Men entirely at a lofs about irj
* neither have they receiv'd any traditional Account
' of fuch a Phenomena from their Fathers.
* Comets, continued he, are not, as fix'd Stars, Bodies
' of Fire, burning in the fame manner as the Sun > but
' Bodies of a different Nature, compos'd either of
* prepared created Matter, fuitcd from the begin-
' ning for Inflamation, or of vaft Colleftions of ex-
* hard and condens'd Matter, fubjeft to Inflama-
' tion, and more or lefs inflam'd according to the Po-
^ fition of their Orbits and Motion j and therefore
* the Eruption of their Flame is but on one fide,
* or on one fide chiefly, (as we fee this burning)
* with a continued and vehement Eruption : They
' move in the utmoft Extent of the Wafte or Ex-
* pancc of Space, which you call the jEther or Air,
* and their Diftance is fo great, and their Revolu-
* tions fo tedious, that they fometimes do not come
^ fo near this Globe as to be vifible, no not in ^wq
* hundred or a thoufand Years j and this is the fe-
' cond that was ever feen in this Hemifphere, fince
* the great Deluge of the Earth, in the Years of
' Pharaoh's Great Grandfather's Father, being now
* above eight hundred Years paft.
' The long Tail, or extended Flame which you
* fee at one fide of the Star, is the Eruption of
' Flame, which, as I fay, continually Burns with
' great Violence, and is fometimes extended to an
* immenfe and unmeafurable Length, even to that
^ of many hundred thoufand Millions of Stadia^
' and blazes out for ever.
The Arabian heard this with a furprife of Plea-
fure, and was even ready to kneel down and wor-
ftiip him i which you will fay 'tis much the Deiil
Mi {hould
1(^4 A S r S T E M
fliould refufe : But when he was juft going to en-
quire of him what Import this Appearance was to
the World, and to jEgypt more efpecially, and a-
bove all to the King in particular, he was not only
. difappointed to the laft degree, bur moft miferably
afflicted and furpris'd 5 for that turning his Head
cafually from him, or rather his Head being turn'd,
or his Eyes turn'd from him, he in that very Mo-
ment difappeared, and was gone.
It was in vain that the AraVian Doftor ran out
of the Hut or Bower, and down the Hill after him,
to his two Servants, who always attended him at
the Foot of the Hill, enquiring of them if the
Father, the venerable Stranger, came not to them 5
they conftantly and faithfully afErm'd that they
had watch'd, as was their Duty, againft wild Beafts
for his Security, and that nothing had pafled by
them.
It was in vain alfo, that he went back lamenting,
and calling aloud upon the Stranger, whom he ftyPd
Father^ to return. How is it^ faid he, that you could
thus far illuminate my Underftanding^ and reveal the
fecret of Wifdom but in part \ promiftng to me a clear
and perfect Knowledge^ and then leave me uninftru6led^
and in the dark^ in the main and grand Inquiry? But
no Voice, no Appearance returned, which affli6ted
him fore 5 and the Day appearing, herefolv'd to con-
tinue there the next Night, in hopes he might fee
him again in the Evening, as he had done before.
After refolving on this, and having been waking (as is
faid) all Night, he laid him down to fleep. He was
no fooner fallen into a deep Sleep, but he dream'd
that he faw, (or, to fpeak it in the Language of the
Eaft,} the ancient Father, the venerable Stranger,
appeared to him again in a Dream,
He was moft agreeably furpriz'd with the Sight
of him, and according to the Eallern. Cuftom fell
at his Feet, embracing his Knees, and with all the
paflionatc
of M A G 1 C K. i6f
paflionate Expreflions which he had iifed before, ex-
poftulated with him, that he (hould leave him fo
in the dark, and half inform'd, after having afTur'd
him that he would fully let him into the Know-
ledge of that moll important Secret.
The Vifion on the contrary feem'd difplcas'd,
and look'd at him with a lefs fmiling and pleafanc
Countenance than he had done before, when he
was awake 5 and with a Hern Voice ask'd him
wherefore he calTd after him fo importunately,
when he had llaid fo long with him, and had lb
fully inform'd him of all things he could defire.
O my Father! fays ihc Jrahian^ (tho' himfelf a
hundred and fifty Years old) did not you put me in
Expedation, that you would likewife inform me
of what mighty Importance this frightful Comec
ihould be to Pharaoh^ and to his Kingdom, and to
the Country where we are, that I might obtain the
Favour of the King, and be accepted for my extra-
odinary Wifdom and Knowledge among the People ?
' thou Fool! fays the Vifion hardily: O thou of
' "weak and empty Judgment ! was it not fufficient to
' thee, that I had let thee know it was no new
' thing, nothing out of the courfe of Nature, but:
' a Comet or Star of a different kind from, and
' remoter Pofition than the reft 3 that it came to
' be vifible here only in the Courfe of its ordinary
' Revolution, and may perhaps appear juft in the
' fame Manner, and in the fame Place again, about
' feven or eight hundred Years hence?
^ Can any thing be more natural, than that when
' I had told thee this, thou fhould'ft know alfothat
' there are no extraordinary things portended in
* Nature's common and ordinary Events 5 no Por-
' tentous Threatningi no ill Omens or Bodings in
^ the common Appearances of the Heavens 5 no
^ more in one Star than in another? When I had
* therefore told thee, that it was only an ordinary
M 5
' Revo-
%66 A S r S T E M
* Revolution of a Comet, I in efFed told thee that
^ it imported nothing, either to Pharaoh or to
' thee, or to any Perlon or Place whatever.
The Arabian^ furpvis'd, and yet informed by this
Difcourfe, flood juilly reprov'd, and for a while an-
fwer'd not a Wordj which the Vifion as it were
obferving, fpoke again as follows.
' Tho' 1 have given thee iufficient Light, where-
* by to expole the If^norancc of the wife Men,
* who have been call'd before Pharaoh^ yet there
* are many things which thou mayft fay to the
' King, which are of great Importance to him and
* his Kingdom to know, which thou (halt be
* enabled by me to give him the Knowledge of,
* and which, if thou diligently liften to my Inftru-
^ dions, ihall fet thee at the right Hand of the
* King in all his Councils, and caufe thee to be c-
* fttcm'd the wifeft Man in his Kingdom: But
* then thou muft be very careful to obferve all the
* Rules which I fhall give thee, and to afi: in ex-
* aft Obedience to them.
The Doftor awaking, and the Vifion being end-
ed, he now began to underftand who it was he
had been converfing with, namely an Angel of the
invifible World, (I fuppofe the Word Devil was
not known among them at that time,) and that for
the future he had a fair Opportunity of good In-
telligence from the other World, upon all necef-
fary Occafions, and upon the mod important En-
quiries.
Comforted exceedingly with this Intelligence,
he haftens back to the City, and being fent for to
appear before the King, as he expeded, Pharaoh
told him the Occafion of his fending for him, and
how the Southfayers and wife Men were puzzl'd
and perplex'd about it, but could give him no Ra-
tional Account of it.
Upon
oj M A G 1 C K. 167
Upon this the Arahian told the King, that he
was forry to find him, Pharaoh^ made fo uneafy by
the Apprehenfions of a thing, which tho' above
the Reach and Underftanding of the Magicians,
had yet in it nothing Extraordinary, nothing ouc
of the Courfe of Nature 5 that there was nothing
in it more than the neceflity of its own Motion
occafion'd, and that it had therefore no portentous
Import or Signification to Pharaoh^ or co any of
his People, or of his Dominions^ and that this he
might be aflur'd of.
Then he went on, and gave the King an Ac-
count of the Nature of the thing, as a Comet or
Blazing'ftar •, and that Word for Word as the an-
cient Stranger or Spirit had deliver'd it 5 and this
he did too in the Audience, not of Pharaoh only,
but of his whole Court 5 and that with fuch a ge-
neral Applaufe, that all the other Magicians and
Southfayers acknowledged the Juftice and Reafon
of what he faid, and the King was made perfedly
cafy upon that Account. From whence they tell
us, that the Mgyptians^ tho' in other Cafes the
moft fuperftitious People in the World, and that
ufed formerly to be the mod concerned upon all
new Phanomena in the Heavens, or upon any un-
ufual Appearances, flying immediately to the Divi-
nations, and to their Southfayers, and Magicians, to
interpret and account for fuch things to them, are
yet, ever fince this Difcovery by the^r^^/^»South-
fayer fo long ago, under no Concern at all upon
the Appearance of Comets or Blazing-Jiarsy on any
Account whatfoever.
But I return to the Arabian, It was no fmall
Fame which he gain'd by the Solution he had given
of this Appearance of a Comet y Pharaoh preferred
him before all the Magicians of Mgypt,^ and exalt-
ed him to divers Honours, but particularly to that
of being near his Perfon, to eounfcl and advifc
M 4 hiru
i58 A SYSTEM
him upon all extraordinary Occafions, as well in
Matters of State and Politicks, as Matters of Dif-
ficulty : Nor did the reft of the Magicians envy
him the Honours he enjoy'd, for they were
convinc'd he merited all the King had done for
him^ and which was more, fhey did not find they
could come at any Part of the extraordinary Intel-
ligence or Underilanding in things, which he was
JViafter of.
In the mean time, as he was too wife to commu-
nicate to any body the fource of his Information, fo
he was too well fatisfied with his new Intelligence,
to neglc61: the Part he was directed to a6b, which
was frequently to meet with the Vifion, which had
once been lo favourable to him : In a word, he foi-
lovv'd with the greateft Affiduity the begun Inti-
macy, and fail'd not to attend the very next Night
in particular, after he had made his Speech con-
cerning the Comet before the King.
On that occafion, going towards his Obfervatory
as ufual, he was encounter'd by a Man, in the Ha-
bit of an uEthiopian^ riding upon a Mule, and having
a Bow hanging over his Shoulder, a Sheaf of Ar-
rows at his Side, and a Lance in his Hand > the Man
feem'd to fliun him, and ofFer'd to go forward, but
prefently turn'd back, and with a kind of Compli-
ment to the Arabian Do6i:or, enquir'd of him, if there
were any way for him to Foord through the River
ISIilus^ which at that time of the Year was fo low,
as to be in fome Places almoft dry, and eafily paf-
fable on Horfe-back. The Arabian courteoufly an-
fwer'd him, that there was not any Place near the
Road or Track which he was going in, and that he
being as he perceiv'd a Stranger and alone, it
would be hazardous for him to venture 5 but that
if he would be pleas'd to ftay, and go with him to
a little Hut which he had hard by, for his Retreat in
the Night, he would guide him in the Morning
to
of M A G 1 C K. i6^
to a Place where he fliould pafs the River with
Safety.
The Traveller thank'd him for the kind Offer, but
leem'd rather inclin'd to go on > Sir, fays the Arahiayiy
the Night approaches, and you may meet with o-
ther Dangers in the way from Crocodiles, Lions,
i^c. prefling him again to flayj but he declin'd
it again, and as to the Dangers he laugh'd at
and defpis'd them s Well then, fays the kind hofpi-
table Arabian^ leu me fend one of my Servants with
you to guide you. He feem'd at firft inclin'd to
accept fo kind an Offer as that was, but falling a lit-
tle farther into Difcourfe, the Arabian perceiv'd
the Stranger began to look pleas'd, and fancying
he would accept the firft Offer, viz. of flaying all
Night, mov'd it again, and with a little additional
entreating, the Stranger confented to that Part, and
turned back with them.
The Arabian^ tho' with two Servants with him,
was always on foot 5 he had himfelf no Weapons, be-
ing without fear but of wild Beads, againft which
his two Servants were his Security, who were
armed with Swords and Lances 5 but the Stranger,
well arm'd as above, turning back, they went on
fearlefs together towards the Hill, which was about
the Dillance of two Miles.
\x\ the Way, the Arabian was a little fhock'd
with the unufual Civility which a great over-grown
Crocodile fhew'd them 5 who rufhing out of a
marfhy kind of Bog near the Way, came forward
towards them, but on a fudden turn'd back, and
very obfequioufly crept into the lurking Place,
where it had juft before come oat from, and lay
ffill there as quiet as if it had been hufh*d by its
own Fears, as perhaps it was.
At a fmall Diftance farther they met two She
Lions, or as fome call them Lioneffesj and as they
heard them growling at fome Didance, before they
were
170
^
A s r s r E M
were feen j they, that is, the Arabian and his two
Servants, began to fhow Ibme Concern about itj
but behold, when the Lions appeared, they imme-
diately turned about, and fled with the utmofl Pre-
cipitation.
After a little farther walking, the Arabian turn-
ing to his Gueft, told him, There, pointmg to the
Hill which was clofe at hand, was his little Re-
treat, to which he had invited him, and defired
him to leave his Mule with his Servants, and to
walk up the little Mount with him j which the
Traveller very readily did, bidding his new Land-
lord go before to (hew him the way, and he would
follow him, as alio he did > but what a Surpnfc
think you was the poor Arabian in between Joy
and Fright, when turning about at the Top of
the Afcenc to receive his Gueft, he faw nobody but
the ancient venerable Stranger, who had at firil ap-
peared to him, and from whom he had received
ib much kind Lilhtidtion and Affiftance before.
The Apparition (for fuch I fuppofe it fliould be
now called) perceiving him in fome Confufion,
bid him not be furprifed, for he was ftill his Friend,
and in the fame Difpofition to ferve him as before,
and asked him whether he came that Night in Ex-
pc6i:ati<;a of meeting him or not 5 to which the A"
rabian replyed, He did, hoping to fee him in Perfon
or in Vifion, having fomething to offer, which he
hopfd he would be fo kind as to comply with
him in.
Upon asking what it was, he told him, That
Pharaoh had a great Difficulty upon him, and had
asked him his Opinion therein, and he knew not
what Anfwer to give.
What is this Difficulty Py^j'i the Apparition.
Why, fays the Arabian.^ he has a private Account
from his Spies, that fhermesbus^ the General of the
Armies of Mthiopia., deligns t^ invade him in the
of M A G I C K. 171
Beginning of the Year, with an infinite Number
of Troops 5 and as the King is in greater Readintfs
to begin the War, than the other, he wants my
Opinion whether he fliall make War upon ^thi-
opia forthwith, or flay till he is obliged to do it
in his own Defence.
Go you back, fays the Spe5lre to him^ and wait
till the King fends for you to interpret his Dream
or Dreams.
What Dream ? y^jj /^^ Arabian,
Why to-morrow Night, fays the SpeBre^ the
King fliall dream, that a black Elephant came up
to the Gates of his Palace, and that with his mighty
Tusks or Teeth he broke down the Gates, and
was entring in to make farther Spoil 5 when the
Gates being, as I fay^ broken down firft, the
Tower which was over the Gates being ihaken
with the Fall, fell down foon after upon the Ele-
phant, and well-nigh crulh'd him to death 5 but
that, tho' by his great Strength he bore up the
Weight, yet he was fo terrified with the Fall of
the Tower upon him, that he withdrew into the
Defart and went quite away.
And what Interpretation fliall I give of this
Dream ? fays the Arabian,
You fliall tell him,y^jV^ theSpe6lre^ That the black
Elephant is the King oi jEthiopia-y that he fliall fend
his General to invade him, even to the Gates of his
Frontier City of Zaba^ and fliall enter the Gates
thereofJ but that the ^Egyptians in Garrifon within
fliall break out and fall upon him, and tho' by the
great Power of their Troops they fliall efcape, yet
that they fliall retire and go back into the Defarts
o£ uEthiopiaj and not dare to look upon him any
more.
But what then fliall I advifc to be done ? fays the
Arabian,
Ycu
tyr A S r S T E M
You will find it moft rational, fays the SpeHre^ to
advife him to begin the War 5 and may promife
him Succefs, withoutiFear j but if not, let him place
very grear Garrifons in all the Frontier Towns of
his Dominions, South, and efpecially in Zah.t or
Zahda-y and let him wait in a good Pofture of De-
fence, till the Ethiopian Army advances to the Siege
of that Place i and fo his Dream will come to pats.
This was all wonderful 5 the ^rab was furprifed
with being thus furnifhed for ingratiating himfelf
with his Mafler the King o^ jEgypt j he knew well
enough, that to be able to make Pharaoh dream
what he plcafed, and then to interpret it how he
pleafed, muft needs make him pafs for a great
Man, in a Country too fo fuperftitioully addidcd
to Dreams, and fo uneafie to have thofe Dreams
interpreted, as the People o^ jEgypt were.
Thus furnifhed, he goes back to the City, where
he heard nothing till the third Day in the Morn-
ing, when the whole Court was in Diforder, all
Faces feem'd cloudy, and every Mind difturbed
;
The News was foon fpread into all Parts of the
City, that the King had had a frightful and
terrible Dream, which had fo diftraded his Mind,
('tis fuppofed they did not call him His Majefty)
that he could not reft.
The wife Men and the Southfayers, Magicians
and Aftrologers were immediately fentfor in a great
hurry to give their Opinion, and interpret Pharaoh^
Dream : The Circumftances of the Dream were
much the fame with thofe already mentioned with
this Addition, that at the Beginning, Pharaoh be-
ing in a deep Sleep, heard as he thought a fudden
great Noife, that it alarm'd the whole City, and
that his Guards, as we call them, or Soldiers which
were about him, were awaken'd, but all fled away,
and that the City was even left without Defence,
only that the Gates were fliut.
That
of M A G 1 C K.
Tbat in the midft of this Hurry, a monftrous
black Elephant, breaking down all before him, and
even overthrowing the Houfes and Buildings which
were without the City, came on, no one refilling
him, to the Gates of the City or Caftle where
Pharaoh flept ; that with the Force of his mighty
Tusks, or Teeth, he beat down the Gates thereof^
but that the Tower being iliaken alfo. Part of the
Building fell down upon the Back of the Elephant,
and, as the King thought at firft, had crulhed him
to Death.
But that notwirhftanding the Weight of the
Building which fell down was very great, yet that
the Elephant by his mighty Strength bore it felf
up and received no Injury by it y but being made
afraid by the great Blow it received, it withdrew,
and retired into the Defart towards the South.
None of the Magicians could interpret this
Dream, or rather, they could not agree in their In-
terpretations of it 5 fome faid one thing, fome ano-
ther, fo that Pharaoh received no Satisfaftion from
their Interpretations 5 whereupon the Arah^ who
appeared at Court purpofely to be called in, was
fummon'd, the King being told that he was there.
He came without any Hefitation at the firft Call j
and the King, with great Appearance of Diftur-
bance, tells him what a ftrange Dream he had had,
how it had difturbed him, and the like, and added,
that none of the Interpretations which the wife
Men had given of it, were fatisfa6tory to him,
or agreeing with one another. The Arab ha-
ving then demanded a Particular of the King's
Dream, had it related to him as above 5 then he de-
fired to know what Account the Magicians had
given of it, and how they had interpreted itj which
when he was told, he exprefs'd fome Wonder thac
they fhould all amufe the Kingin fuchamanner, and
fhould fay nothing but what was perfe6lly remote
from the Cafe. But
71
174 A S Y S T E M
But turning to the King, ' Let not Pharaoh
* (fays he) be any more difturbed about the Intcr-
' pretation of his Dream, feeing the Event fhall
* redound to the Honour of the King and Profpe-
' rity of his Dominions > for that the Dream being
* interpreted, is a Reprefencation of what fhall im-
* mediately come to pafs
:
' and then he went on to
interpret boldly the Dream thus.
* The Noife, O King, fays he, which thou waft
* alarm'd with in the City, and which thy Soldiers
* were intimidated with, foas to run out of the City 5
' this is nothing elfe but a Rumour of War from
* the South, and a certain Alarm upon the Approach
' of an Army upon the Borders, at whofe Approach
* all the Inhabitants of the Country fhall fly into
* the Mountains and Cities for fear of the Invaders.
* The black Elephant afTaulting the Gates of the
* King's Palace is the General of the Armies of
* jEthiopia^ who fhall make War upon Pharaoh^
* and fhall invade his Kingdoms with a great Ar-
* my, and fhall break down the Gates of his flrong
* Cities 5 but let not the King be difmayed at the
* Strength of this Enemy which is fo great, for
* the Power of Pharaoh fhall fall upon him, and
* fhall flrike him with Terror and Amazement;
* fo that he fhall flee away with all his Army into
* the Wildernels, and into the Defart Country,
* and fhall be feen no more.
He had no fooner delivered his Interpretation,
but Pharaoh embraced him with Joy, and told him,
That he had indeed given him a right Interpre-
tation of the Dream j and that he fully believed it
would come to pafs in the fame manner: Where-
upon Pharaoh forthwith caufed Preparations of War
to be made, and fent AmbafTadors into ^Ethiopia to
denounce War.
The fame Year that the AraUan had given this
Interpretation of the King's Dream, the Ethiopians
with
of M A G I C R, 17;
with a great Army invaded the Coalls of J^gypf^
wafting the Country and flaying the People, even
to the Gates of Zaba or Zahda^ a fortified City oa
the Frontiers of the Country, which they befiegcd,
but in vain j and the King o^ jEgypt marching a-
gainft them with all his Chariots and Horfes, at
their Approach the ^Ethiopians fled, and retired in-
to the Defart Country, and were feen no more.
This Story, fuppofing it, or the Subftance of it,
to be true, lets us into the Manner and Method in
and by which the Devil firft introduced aCorrefpon-
dence with Mankind, and how he tranfafted the
fame with the Magicians of Mgypt^ which was cer-
tainly continued by him for many Ages afterwards,
in the very fame manner, and by which the Magi-
cians of Mgypt obtained fo much in the Opinion of
Mankind, that they pafTcd for the wifeft Men in
the World 5 whereas all this Knowledge, if we
may believe Tradition, was neither more or lefs
than a mcer dealing with the Devil^ a plain down-
right Hcllifh Correfpondence, managed by a magi-
cal Scheme, dictated by the Devil himfelf, and ob-
fcrved by the Magicians with but too much Exa<3:-
ncfs on all Occafions.
By this Diabolical Magick the Devil converfed
freely with the Magicians, and they with him > and
whatever fome may pretend, that the Devil cannot
alTume a human Shape for his Correfpondence with
Mankind, 'tis moft certain that he did appear in
divers Shapes, and on many Occafions, or elfc all
the Accounts of fuch things which Tradition has
handed down to the fiicceeding Ages muft be falfe
and fabulous, made up by the Invention of the Ages
in which they were written.
But that this was not fo, is apparent from the
Scripture, as alio from the firft Writers of the
jEgyptian and Phcenician Hiftorics, by all which we
read of the Wickednefsof the Magicians 5 as parti-
5 cularly
7(J A S r S T E M
cularly in the Story of the Wonders wrought by
Aaron and Mofes in the Prefence o£ Pharaoh^ where
it is allowed that the Magicians wrought by Inchant*
ment, which I always underftood to mean by In-
voking the Allillance of the evil Spirit, and by re-
ceiving Help and Secret Powers as well as Intelli-
gence from thofe evil Spirits 5 andbefides the work-
ing by Inchantment or Sorcery, fo taken Notice
of there, we fee it mentioned again in the Book of
Wifdom^ Chap. xvii. fpeaking of the Plague of
Darknefs, he fays, 1'hey were fcattefd under a dark
Veil ofForget
fnine
fs^ being horribly aftonijhed and troubled
with (ftrange) apparitions^ Noifes as of Waters falling
down^ founded about them, and fad Fiftons appeared
unto them with heavy Countenances. Ver. 6. Only there
appeared to them a Fire kindled of it felf very dread-
fuls for being much terrified^ they thought the things
which they faw more terrible than the I'hings they
Jaw not,
Ver. 7. jIs for the Illufions of Art Magickj they were
put down^ and their vaunting in Wifdom was reproved
with Difgrace : For they that promifed to drive away
terrors and 'Troubles from a fick Soul^ were fick them--
felves with Fear^ and worthy to be laughed at.
This whole Quotation is a Defcription of the
Darknefs of Mgypt^ in which, according to this
Text, there were ftrange Apparitions, being evi-
dently the Devil and evil Spirits with human
Shapes, horrible Appearances and heavy Counte-
nances.
I think this is fo plain, as to need no Confir-
mation from other Opinions :Magick was reproved,
that is to fay, difgraced, becaufe the Devil could
not affift the' Magician, fo as to make any Abate-
ment of the Darknefs, which was wrought by Hea-
ven 3 for even the Fire could not be made to give
any Light, fo the Power of Art, nay even of Ma-
gick ic felf, was at an End.
la
of M A G I C K. 177
In this terrible Cafe, the Devil or rather Devils
were, it feems, permitted to appear in horrible and
frightful Shapes, with heavy Countenances, £5?^.
In like manner I cannot doubt but he appeared
to the Magicians when he and they had Occafion
to meet and converfe, and carry on their Hellifh
Combinations, and Confederacies for doing Mifchiefj
and this brings me of courfe to fpeak of the Man-
ner of the Magicians converfing with i\\c Devilj
for hitherto we have only fpoken of his coa-
verfing with them.
TheCale is this: Whenever the Devil h^d an Oc-
cafion to fpeak with the old ^rai^j or in Ages af-
ter chat (for the Jrabw^s firfl) with ^U jilbrahazen.
the Magician o^ Saba in jfrabia^he knew well how
to find them out, and could go to them, meet
them in Apparition^ or fpeak to them in Vifion %
But what was to be done when they wanted his
Afliftance upon any Emergency ?
The Story of Ali^ mentioned already, ftated the
Matter for him, namely, that he was to go into
the Defart to a certain Palm-tree, furround it fo
many times, call the Devil fo many times in every
Circle by fuch and fuch a Name, and then he would
come.
Here was indeed a great deal of Ceremony, be-
fore his Worfhip would be fpoken with 5 and I
cannot but think our Friend Roger M •
(Ac-
cepted Free Mafon,£5?0 Tpeaks with him fometimes
upon much eafier Terms > for the World is grown
much nicer of late, than they were then, and the
Devil is obliged to treat with them on Terms of
lefs Ceremony.
But the retl of the Story of the old Arabian will
ftate this Matter much clearer, and to the Under-
flanding of every Reader 5 and will let us fee a little
what Methods they took to raife the Devil in King
Pharaohs time, and before our modern Experiments
were in uie. N The
178 A S T S r E M
Tlie Jrah was now a great Perfon, all Mgypi re-
ceived him as a wonderful Manj his Words were
the Oracle of the Day, for whatever he faid came
to pafs y he was fent to far and wide, and MeG*
fengcrs came from Perfta^ from Phoenicia^ nay
from jEthiopia^ for him to come thither, and give
the Interpretation of their Vifions, and explain to
them every doubtful Cafe j but he would not
leave the C^ourt of Pharaoh^ and he was in the
right, for the King highly honoured him.
All this while his Reputation wholly depended
Upon the conftant Intelligence which he kept up
with his familiar Spirit (fo I may now call it) I
mean the Apparition which came to him in the
Defartj but as this Appearing was arbitrary, and
when it pleafed, and might not be at hand when
he might have a more than ordinary Occafion for it,
it occurr'd to him one Night to propofe Methods
of a more conftant and lefs difficult Correfpondence,
and that the Apparition might be brought to a
greater Familiarity, fo as that when any Exigence
was upon him, he might be fure of his Aid, might
be able to call him to his Affiftance, and that he
would not fail to appear.
Story does not record what Condition the Devil
might make with the old^fr^^; as for felling Souls,
figning Contra6ts, and the like, it feems to me
there was little need of thefe things in thofe Days,
if there had, and the Devil had inlifted on it, I doubt
not the Jrabian would have made no more Scruple
of ir, than our Brother of the Trowel, who adorns
fo often his blue Ribband with the moft honour-
able Badge of the Leather Apron 5 and being firfl
incorporated, as above, in the ancient Society of
free Th s may, for ought we know, build two
or three Churches abroad, feeing the Devil and he
are known to be upon their Travels together.
You
of M A G I C K, i-j^
You have thus a Sketch of Satan's profefs'd
Correfpondence with his Agents in the firfl:
and mod early Days of the Magick Art> if by
thofe Subtilties he brought them into great Re-
putation among the People, and in the Courts of
Princes, you are not to doubt but he found his
Account in it > for by gaining a Reputation to his
Agents, and at the fame time keeping them at his
Command, for the fake of the Illuminations which
they gained from him, he had them always at his
hand, ready to do or undertake any thing how-
ever black, which in the courfe of their Witch-
crafts came in their way. We ihali find fome fla-
ming Examples of this kind very quickly.
But for the prefent let us keep to our Jrah as a
Sample or Inftance of the ordinary way of fuch
People in their future Correfpondences j hitherto
you fee the Devil very affiftant, and, in his way,
obliging to the lafl: degree, to his new Acquain-
tance the Arab. I will for the prefent fuppofe he
had no other Correfpondent, at leaft not in Pha^
raoh's Court, nor was there any need of another 5
but you are to fuppofe he had more fuch, or fuch
like, in other Places.
He had, it feems, found out the Way to make him-
felf necefTary to the Arab^ fo that the Dodor could
not bear the Thoughts of wanting his conflant
Afliftance ; The Senfe of this puts the Arab upon
propoling to him, that for the future the Devil
fhould be fo favourable to him as always to come to
him whenever he had Occafion, and this with-
out obliging him to go into the Defart and up the
Hill, in fearch of him, which many times the ex-
traordinary Demands of the Court would notadmir^
nor allow him time for.
If the Devil did concede this Favour, which was
more than he granted to Ali Jlbrahazen^ (for he
obliged him to come to the Palm-tree, walk fo;
N z many
8o . A S T S T E M
many times about ir, call aloud fo many times upon
him every Circle he made) before he would comej
1 fay, if he yielded to this at the Defire of his Ac-
quaintance the Jrah^ it was certainly for the great
Ends which were to follow.
Upon his new Propofa), Meafures were ftated be-
tween them that upon fuch and fuch formal ma-
naging, (for there was fome Reafon, it feems, to
make it a Piece of great Formality,) the Devil
fhould always, that is fome of the innumerable Le-
gions, fhould always appear^ whether Satan himfelf,
or fome of his Meflcngers, Servants, or Gentlemen
in waitings Hiftory indeed is not fo particular as that
.1 {hould be able to give you the Names of them,
whether Chriflian Name or Sirname, as in other
Cafes might be expe6ted.
The Forms of his appearing, the Occafion, the
Conditions, i^c. being thus left to the Jrab to de-
termine as fhould be for his Occafion 5 let us fee
how near we can come to the Particulars.
Circles and Figures vifible to others, with fome
r.eedful Cant or hard Words which might be made
ufe of audibly, as there might be Occafion j thefe
feem to have been appointed as the Pomp and Ce-
remony of the thing called Conjuring and Magick,
and might be found neceflary for many Reafons :
and in feveral Ages thefe were varied and changed,
as the Magician and the Devil night agree abouc
it between themfelves.
It was no doubt a great Condefcention that the
Devil would floop to be always at hand, and to
come when he was called 5 but he found his Ac-
count in it : the Jrab now had him at his Beck, and
whenever Pharaoh had any difficult thing to pro-
pofe, the old jirab could as they call it raife the
Devil^^ when he pleafed, to affift in it.
This is what After-times called having a Familiar,
and a familiar Spirit, and is acknowledged to this
time
of M A G I C K. i8i
time to be frequently pra6l:is'd by Witches and
Warlocks, and what we find mention'd in Scripture.
Menaffeh in particular, tho' one of the Kings of
Judah^ the Scripture is exprefs in it, T'hat he ufed
Inchantments and dealt with familiar Spirits and
Wizards^ i Kings xxi. 6.
Several hundred Years before this 'tis apparent,
by the Laws againft fuch as thcfe, that fuch were
5
and that doubtlefs while they were in JEgypt^ nay
it mud be there 5 the Law is very exprels, and
reckons up feveral Sorts, Dcut. xviii. 10, 11. 'There
Jhall not be found among you^ (mark the Kinds,)
1. One that ufes Divination.
2. An Obferver of Times.
3. An Inchanter.
4. A Witch.
f. A Charmer.
6. A Confulter with familiar Spirits.
7. A Wizard.
8. A Necromancer.
then follows the juft Charafter of thofe Praftices,
ver. 12. For all that do fuch things are an Abomi-
nation to the Lord.
Now from the fame Text we {hall prove that
thefe were Prafbices in the Nations of that Part of
the World, even long before the Children of Ifrael
came into the h^ndoi Canaan. See the fame Chapter,
Verfc II. And becaufe of thofe Abominations the
LORD thy GOD doth drive them out from before thee.
And again, Ver. 14. For thefe Nations which thou,
ftjalt poffefs hearkened unto Obfervers of Times^ and un-
to Diviners.
Now fuch a one was this Arab y let him aft as
he did, and be that how it will, 'tis evident he
h:id a Familiarly the meaning is, he was in or under
a Covenant with the Devil \ he had made an Agree-^
ment with the Apparition for continuing the Cor-
refpondence, and for attending him conitantly, to
N ?
fur-
zt A s r s r E M
lurnifli him for his Prediftions, foretelling Events,
and acquainting them with fecret and hidden
things.
Thefeare the known Interpretations of thefefeve-
ral Exprellions, having a Familiar^ ^fi'^g Divination^
Inchantments^ &c. All imply a Corrcfpondence with
the Devil^ to help them in fuch extraordinary
Cafes.
Such a fort of People it feems there was among
the Canaanites^ that is to {^lj tht Phoenicians -y and the
Abomination was come to fuch a height, and God
had born with it fo many Ages, that now he was
refolded to drive out thofe Nations, for this very
Crime : Now, as there were fuch People among
the Phoenicians^ no doubt but there were fuch a-
mong the Egyptians too, from whom thefe People
of Ifracl came out, and who, tho' with the /r/?-
lorn oi t .cir Children {lain in Jp^gypt^ the Lofs of
their Army and King in the Waters of the Red-
Sea and other Calamities, they were reduced low
enough at the Time that we read of them, yet
were a ftrong and powerful Nation, even from the
time of Mizraim their greateft Monarch after Cham.
As they were a powerful and great People, fo
they were a wife and learned Nation, as Wifdom
and Knowledge went then in the World, and there-
fore we find, that however the Chaldeans and Jra-
hians boaft that they were the firft Searchers into
the Myfteries of Wifdom and Knowledge, and that
the firft Rudiments of the celeftial Studies were
conceiv'd among them, which yet docs not appear
other than in their Pretences 5 yet fuppofe it, or
fuppofe we were to grant it, we ftill find that they
went to Mgypt for their Pradice and Encou-
ragement j that perhaps in Jrahia they might
drink in the firft Knowledge and Principles of
things J But /Irabia^ a Country always poor, and not
able to give Encouragement to Learning, as we
fay
r
of M A G I C K, 183
fay of a Neighbouring Country, afforded Nothing
but the dry Study, they muftgo farther for the Im-
provement of it} in fhort they might flay at home,
and get Knowledge, but they muft go abroad if
they would get Money.
This was the Reafon that, as it is at this time fo nc-
where elfe, as foon as the Poor Wretches had got
a little fmattering o^ Arabian^ Mountain Wit, and a
little Star-gazing Knowledge, away they went to
jEgypt^ and there they fet up immediately for wife
Men and Conjurers, and we fcarce know what of
Philofophers.
The jEgyptians^ a wealthy but from the very Be-
ginning a fuperftitious kind of People, always hunt-
ing after fecret Interpretations, and hidden referved
Events, poring upon rather than underllanding myfte-
rious things, and loving to have llrange Stories told
them by any one, efpecially Foreigners, gaped eagerly
after the fine Tales of thefe fecond-fighted jlra*
bians^ drank in their Magick as it was then called,
and freely parted with their Money to have their
Fortunes told them, and the Lines in their Palms
explain'd to them by the crafty wandering Arabs,
On the contrary, the cunning Anills, that, tho*
they knew nothing of the matter at firft, yet fee-
ing plainly that even that little was efteemed a
great deal, while the People they talked with knew
lefs, and finding the ^Egyptians eafie to be impofed
upon, willing to be cheated, and particularly con-
tented to have their Pockets pick'd for the Satis-
fying their fimple Curiofity 5 I fay, the cunning
wandering Strangers made a good Market of them,
grew rich and famous among them, and kept up
the Reputation of their Craft by all the Subtilties
of Wit and Invention.
This Succefs encouraging their Studies, we may
eafily fuppofe they pufhed into all manner of na-
tural Enquiries, and as far as they were able im-
N 4 proved
84 A S r S T E M
proved themfelves, and furnifh'd their Heads with
the Knowledge of human Things, fuch as Reafon,
Philofophy, and natural Experiments might fup-
ply 5 and at length pufhing at every thing, they
found the way, or he found it out for them, as I
have already obferv'd, to deal with the Devil, And
thus we are come at the Original of Magick, as we
now underftand the Word, that is to fay of Diabo-
lical Pradices, or a certain fpreading of Delufions
by the Affiftance of the DeviL
CHAP. VII.
Of the VraEfice and ^Frogrefs of Magicky
as it is now exflain'd to he a T)iaboHcal
Art ; how it fpread it felf in the Worlds
and by what T^egrees it grew up to the
Height which it has fmce arrivd to.
WE have pitch'd upon jEgypt xo be the Spot
where the firft hellifh Ar-ifts ftudy'd this
that I now call Diabolical Magick. I fhall not keep
you long upon the cold Scent. It was pradis'd there
very early, and very long, before we heard much of
it any where elfe; but when it took a run, when
it ftartcd from thence, we fhall foon hear of it a-
broad ; For however fecret the Black Part may be,
and however private the Magicians and their great
Maftcr rhe Devil manag'd their Corrcfpondence,
yet the Pradice of it, and the Game they play*d
upon Mankind by it, was always publick and open,
as we ihall havereafon to fay, among other Nations,
as well as among our own.
>. As to the Chronology of it, and when it began,
in what Ages of the World thofe Arabians began
to pradife as above, when they fuic dealt in this
Craft,
of M A G 1 C K. 185
Crafr, when the jEgyptians began to be their Scho-
lars, and they the Devil's^ it is not (however ancient)
fo difficult to come at the Knowledge of in ge-
neral, as fome other things in the World, which
yet we think our felves very certain of.
7'he Scripture^ whether our good Friends that
read Books in this Age will bear with our quoting
it in Matters of Religion or no, yet is generally
allow'd to be a tolerable good Hiftory. Nay, if
we may believe fome good Authors, it muft be al-
low'd to be the mod ancient Hiftory, and the
Writing from which all other Authorities take their
Rife 5 that Mofes was long before Berofus^ Horner^
Hejiod^ or in a word, any of the Writers on Earth.
Nor could it be well otherwife, if what is lately
advanced is true, that the firft Knowledge of Let-
ters to write by, and to read upon, was di6tated
to Mofes from Mount Sinai^ by the immediate Re-
velation of Heaven. I fay it could not be otherwife.
For howfhould they v/rite before they had Letters, ^
and knew how to form the found of Words upon
the Tables, where they were impreft?
As Mofes had the firft Knowledge of Letters, (p
he had the firft Knowledge of Things too, and was
therefore the beft qualified to be a Colle6lor of
Antiquities 3 nor was it fo difficult a Matter for A/o-
fes to write a Hiftory of the Creation, and of all the
material Events of things that had happen'd before
his time, as fome may imagine: Since by the Cal-
culations of Time, Mofes might eafily have an Ac-
count of thofe things by a fucceffive Supply of
Oral Tradition from Noah himfelf, as you may ga-
ther from the Times wherein he liv'd, and the
Perfons with whom he had convers'dj of which
take the following fhort Sketch, as a leading
Thread or Chain of things diredly confirming my
Argument.
If
%6 A S Y S T E M
If Mofes then had the moil early Knowledge of
things by a fhort Succeilion of the Perfons relating
th.m, and that even from Adam and Noah in a
right Linej and if Mofes had the firft Knowledge
of Letters, even immediately from a fuperior Hand,
then at lead you mu(t allow me, that Mofes was
certainly the beft qualify'd to form a Hiftory of
the firft things tranfaded in the World 5 and was
the firft Man, or at leaft the Man beft able to
write th.it Hiftory down. For who could form a
Hiftory of things they did not know? and
who could write before they had Letters to form
the Words he was to write by? and who could
read what was written, unlefs thofe Letters had
been known, and made publick in the World ?
Hence I infer that Mofes was the firft Hiftorian,
and the Books of Mofes are the firft Hiftory in the
World ; and if the firft, confequently moft likely
to be the beft Authority > at leaft, as I have faid a-
bove (and that my Readers may not be pulh'd upon
too hard, to believe thofe Books which they have
fo ill a reliili of) I fay at leaft, they will allow that
the Scripture oz Pentateuch is a tolerable good Hi-
ftory, and that is all I ask of them as a Favour.
Now to begin with the Chronology of things:
The Law given to the Jews from the Mouth of
the Oracle upo.i Mount Sinal^ of which Mofes gives
us the Hiftory, was, according to Sir ff^alter Raleigh
y
publiilicd Jm$ Mundi
'
^f H*
Jofeph died ^97®-.
Alofes was born MH*
The Children of //r^^/ came out of JEgypt 2fiJ.
But we find in the Hiftory of Jofeph^ and we
find by the Commands to extirpate Witches and
Sorcerers, mention'd in the firft Law given the
Jfroeliies'y I fay, we find the Praftice of Diaboli-
cal Magick was much more ancient than MofeSj
nay than Jofeph^ and that it was praftis'd fo long
ago,
of M A G I C K. ,87
ago, not only in Mgjpt^ but in Phoenicia alfoj and
perhaps in the laft, as Toon as in the firft.
Firft, It feems that God refolv'd to drive out the
Phoenicians^ that is the Canaanites^ before the Chil-
dren of Ifrael^ even for this very Offence among
others 5 and I cannot come up to the modern rate
of Scepticifm, as to believe God would have driven
them out of their Country, for a Crime which
they were not guilty of 5 and efpecially too, that
he would have aflign'd that for a Reafon of it,
which the poor People could have ftood up and elear'd
themfelves of, and have faid they did not under-
ftand what it was.
This goes far to a Suggeftion, that the Canaa"
mtes were guilty of it even four hundred Years be-
fore, and before God's Promife to Ahram to give
him that Country \ or elfe we muft fuppofe the Ca-
naanites condemned to an Explufion before the
Crime for which they were to be expell'd was
committed j and I can no more come into that than
the other.
Certainly, God's Promife to turn out the Inha-
bitants for Jbram's Pofterity muft be allow'd to
be a Sentence of Condemnation upon the Canaa-
nites even at that time > and he would not have con-
demned them to Banifhmenr, I mean as a Nation,
for Crimes which they were not even then guilty
of5 efpecially that very Crime being afTlgn'd as the
Caufe of their faid Condemnation and Sentence.
If this Argument is juft, as I think it muft be,
then I have gain'd the Point as to the A-ntiquity j
for then this Crime ofDiabolicalMagick is as ancient
as Ahrams and 'tis evident Abram was born above
fifty fix Years before Noah died. How long this
wicked Trade was known before Abram^ we can-
not determine, but may grant it might be fume
confiderable time.
It
'i88 A S Y S r E M
It is certain however that in the Reign of Miz-
raimy who was but the Grand Ton of Noah^ they
"were grown very con(id arable, I mean as to their
Reputation, in the Egyptian Court j and I am wil-
ling to fuppofe my old Arab was one of the Chief,
if nor one of the firft of them in Mizraim's Reign,
and perhaps near the Beginning of it : For as the
Devil introduc'd himfelf as it were Voluntier to
him, it Ihould feem that he had no Correfpondents
of that kind there before, and took that Method to
begin his Acquaintance 5 perhaps allowing his
Correfpondents to convey the fame Method of In-
telligence from one to another, and perhaps to re-
new the Contradt as often as he their Inftruftor
thought fit.
But be that how it will, 'tis certain the Devil
muil bcAggrefTor, in all Ages, of this Art. He knew
well enough how to break in upon them, how to
fhow himfelf, and make his Appearances to them
as often as he thought fit j and could begin it, or
renew it, how, and whenever he pleas'd. But the
Cafe was quite different on their Side, for no body
knew how to come at him, they did not fo much
as know him when they faw him, or know where
he liv'd, where he kept his Refidencej how to go
to him, or fend to him; or, in a word, to have any
Correfpondence with him, but jufl as he thought
fit to enter into a Familiarity with them, and give
them Methods and Rules by which they ihould ob-
tain Audience of him, when, and as often as they
had occafion.
This being the cafe, it is not to be wonder'd that
the Devilj and thofc Men of Craft, became ac-
quainted very foon in the World; for the Devil is
too diligent to negle6b his own Affairs any longer
than till they were ripe for his Agitation.
Having then brought all theSouthfaying and Ma^
gick of the firft Ages as it were within his own
Manage-
of M A G I C K. i8«)
Management, and eftabliih'd a Correfpondcnce with
the wife Men of the mod early Times, we are
next to examine how it proceeded, and what Pro*
grefs it made: And in making this lnquiry5it comes
directly in my way to tcil you a very unhappy
Truth 5 namely, that the Clergy of thofe times
feem to m^ to be the firft Conjurers, and Dealers with
the Devil'^ andfoin all the fubfequent Times, and in
all or mofl of the Diftant Nations of the World; I
mean next immediately after thofe jEgyptian Pro-
ficients.
I hope our Moft Reverend, and Right Reverend
of the facerdotal Order in thefe Days, and in this
wife Magical Age, will take no Offence at me for
this, at Icaft till I have farther and fully explain'd
my felf. Far be it from us (and fad would be our
Circumftances fliould I venture) to fuggeft that any
of our Clergy fhould be Conjurers, and deal in
Magick : no, no 5 plenty of Grace,* and paucity of
Brains, I hope, is our eftablilh'd Protedion from
fuch a difmal Eruption as that would be upon
us.
In order therefore to explain my felf fully upon
this Subjed, I muft go back to the early Ages of
the World, even juft where I was before. The
Devil^ after the Flood, obferving the World begin
to fill, and that the People fpreading themfelves
over it, began to People it again, and form them-
felves into Nations, and Governments; one of his
firft Cares was to debauch ^ their Principles as to
Religion, to didtate falfe Notions of Homage and
Worfliip to them, and, in a word, to introduce Ido-
latry.
As he knew perfedly well the End he aim'd ar,
fo he was not at a lofs to find out the Means. Ic
would be too long a Story to tell you, in what
manner he found out Gods for them to worlhip,
and how he canoniz'd their Heroes for them. The
Tale
ipo A SYSTEM
Tale of Ninus or Nimrod appearing to the wife
Men in a Flame of Fire, and telling them, he was
going juft then up into Heaven, from whence he
would always fliine upon them in the Shape of a
Star, and that they fhould build a Temple to the
glory of his Memory > that he fhould be call'd
BaA or Bell^ which is as much as to fay a great
God^ and that he would be always ready to help
them againft their Enemies, as he was to fight for
them while he was alive 5
I fay, this Tale, fuppofe it but a Tale, was not
at all unlikely to take with the People, who had
the Memory of their dead Hero-King frefli in their
Thought, and who were ready to idolize the very
empty Sound of his Name. Suppofe the wife Men
as they caird them, only feign'd, or forg'dthis Story,
and reported it to the People as a Vifion which
they had really feen, tho' they had not feen it at
all, yet it was not unlikely to make Impreffions upon
them, in their firft Ignorance of things.
Bur fuppofe, on the other hand, theDevHj who
is always awake, fhould have really fhownhimfelf in
fuch an Appearance, and then have drawn in the
wife Magicians of that Age, upon feeing fuch a
Sight frightful and horrid like the Z)(?i;/7, that form'd
it, to relate (as they might with Truth,) the
Fadt to the People : It was not at all ftrange, that
the wife Men mentioned fhould go to the King
with that Story alfo j and that he the King, bi-
gotted by the Magicians^ and terrify'd as they were,
fhould immediately order a Temple to be erefbed.
Sacrifices to be appointed, and a formal Worfhip
fet on foot, to the Honour of this great God Bellj
whofe Memory was fo high in their Efteem be-
fore.
Hiftory is very full of the firfl Fury of idok-
trous Zeal-, and of the extravagant Branches of
their Devotion, I mean in their Princes. Ni»us
built
of M A G I C K. tj>i
built a Houfe for the Worfliip of Bell^ the Walls
and Towers are a Prodigy in themfeivesj what the
manner of Worfhip was we do not read, tho' af-
terwards we have the Defcription of their abomi-
nable Rites, as the Sacrifices to Moloch^ viz. making
their Children to pafs through the Fire j whether
they were burnt to Death, or horribly fcorcht. Au-
thors do not yet refolve us. The King of Moa3
facrific'd his Son, the Heir Apparent of his Throne,
upon the Walls of the City, only to obtain Delive-
rance from the Siege by the help of his Idol,
at the Price of his Son's Blood.
As thofe Idols were introduc'd by the Art of the
Devil^ fo it muft be that the Direftion came from
him 5 1 mean as to the manner of the Idol-worfliip,
and that he certainly held an immediate Correfpon-
dence with the Inftitutors and Managers of the
Idol Rites.
Thefe were the Magicians and Aftrologers, who
by his Direftions were inflrufted what Cere-
monies, what Rites, what manner of Worfliip to
offer to their Gods > and as they confultcd the Ma-
gicians for the Inftitution of their Worfliip, fo in
a few Ages after the Magicians •or Southfayers
were their Priefts, and their Priefts were all Ma-
gicians and Southfayers. Hence the Aurufpices,
the Sacrificers, and the Priefts of the feveral Tem-
ples, where Anfwers were given to Queftions, E-
vents predidted, and the like, were the Givers of
thofe Anfwers from the Oracle 5 that is in plain
Englijh^ the Priefts were Magicians, and the Magi-
cians were the Priefts, and the Devil brought
Witchcraft and Idolatry to be at laft but one Sci-
ence.
As he correfponded perfonally with M Alhraha*
zen^ and the old Ara^^ in the Infancy of time, and
when his Kingdom was, as it were, but juft erefting
and fetting up in the World, fo when that Perfonal
Corrc-
«9 A S Y S T E M
Correfpondence appear'd fuccefsful in fetting up I^
dolatry, he made ic equally ufeful for the Propa-
gating it, and the Magicians became Priefts in the
Temples of their Gods.
Nothing could be more agreeable to the Priefts
of their Idols, than this Intimacy with the Infer-
nal Spirits'j for the Devil^ who was always his
Craft's Mafter, fail'd not as well to delude the
Priefts themfelves, as by them to impofe upon the
World 5 nor could he have carry'd on his Game
upon Mankind without it. For if the Priefts had
not believ'd that they convers'd with the Gods,
when really they convers'd with the Devil -y if they
had been all let into the Secret, and made to pro-
pagate their Religion as a Cheat upon the World, to
\7hich they were to have been privy j if it had all been
known to be, as it really was, a Confpiracy againft
Heaven in Favour of the Devil^ and with real De-
fign to impofe upon and damn the World, they
would never have been brought univcrfally to have
kept the Devil's Council, and have come into the
Plot, at the Price of their eternal Felicity^ and the
Souls of ail their Friends.
The DeviPs Plot would certainly have been blown
long before it was, and the Priefts of the Oracles
would moft certainly have firft or laft have betray 'd
their Mafter, and expos'dthe whole Cheat. But the'
Cafe was evidently this, the Devil found the way to
delude and impofe upon the very Priefts themfelves >
and not only fuggefted to them, but made them
really believe, that the Gods convers'd with them,
that the Voices they heard, the Anfwcrs didated
by their Oracles, the Apparitions, (^c. were all the
real Appearances of their Gods, thofe in particular
whofe Servants and Priefts they were> when in
Truth it was no more than a grofs Delufton, and an
Appearance of the Devil,
I
of M A G 1 C K i5>3
I make no doubt, but that the Tumult rais*d by
the Silverfmiths at Ephefus^ tho' they in particular
were touch'd with the fenfe of their Intereft, and
the lofs of their Craft and Trade, yet was carry'd
on in the Sincerity of their Ignorance by thofe who
caird her the Great Goddefs Diana^ whom they and
all the World worjhipfds that they who cry'd Great
w Diana of the Ephejians^ believ'd her to be fo,
and had not the leaft Notion of their worihipping
the Devil
I doubt not but the Priefts of Jpollo at Belphor^.
who waited there to give out the Anfwers to the
feveral Enquirers that came with their Gifts to the
Oracle,believ'd that the faid Oracles were iflued by the
Gods, and efpccially by Apollo himfelf5 and little
thought that they (the Priefts) were Tools of the
Z)m/, to cheat and amufe the World, and propa-
gate Idolatry ; for which the true God, who was
highly affronted in the Fraud, would one Day put
them all to Silence.
Thus far, I think the Clergy are beholden to me
very much, for eftablifliing their Honefty at the
Expencc of their Heads, and telling you they were
all Fools, rather than Knaves. At the fame time it
holds ftill, and this part can never be deny'd, that
as the Devil carry'd on his Kingdom by the Arc
Magick, or what we call the Black Jrtj fo the
Priells were the Inllruments both of the Witchcraft
and the Idolatry,
How far the two Infernal Juggles are dill car-
ried on, and whether the Priefts in moft Parts of
the World (our own, God blefs us ! always excepted)
are not Magicians, and Dealers with the Devil^
even in their Sacreds, and by the meer Confe-
quence of their Office j let the Padres and Men of
the Tonfurc tell us, and give us Satisfaftion if they
can.
G Wi
,5,4 A S Y S r E M
We have now brought the Magicians of Mgypt^
and the Priefts of the Pagan Teoiples to be fome-
thing a-kin> atleailvvemay fay, I have brought them
to be all of a Trade \ and I believe 'tis not very dif-
ficult to fhovv you, that as they fervM the fame Mailer,
fo they had their Inftrudtions by the very fame
Channel, and from the fame Original : In a word,
that the Worfhip of the Gods, which was indeed
the Worfhip of the Devil^ was diftated in the very
fame way, namely, by an immediate Correfpon-
dence with the Devil, and with all the Circumftan-
ces mention'd in the Text before quoted 5 (mz.)
Divination, Inchantment, Conjuration, Appariti^
on, Vifion, Dream, Familiar Spirits, obferving
Times, obferving Seafous, and flying of Birds, En-
•iniils of Beads, and the like.
It may feem a little difficult to bring all the
Schemes of Idol or Pagan Worfhip down to a
Level with Witchcraft and Diabolical Magickj
and fome will tell us, that feveral Parts of the
Pagan Worfhip, or even Paganifm in general, was
eflabiifh'd upon pure and jult Principles, an exaS:
and regular Virtue, the height of Ivlorals, prin-
ciples of Truth, and of natural Religion, of good
•Government, and of Dedication to the publick
Welfare of Mankind 5 nay even upon Principles of
Piety, and a Homage to be paid to the Divine Be-
ing, as the firil moving Caufeof Life, and as a Debt
due to that Being, for all the good attending Hu-
man Life 5 that nothing has been wanting in fome
Pagans but a Revelation from Heaven, and an open-
ing the Eyes of the Soul by Divine Infpiration,
to know the Only True God.
Thofe that are of this Opinion, fupport it by the
Example of iSIuma Pompilius^ the Founder of the
-Roman Rites, and to whom the ellablifhing the
greater part of the Pagan Ceremonies is juftly af-
fign'd > who, they tell us, afted upon the higfeefl
Princi-
of M A G 1 C K. ipj
Principles of Morality and Virtue, and even of
Piety; that he went even to the utmoft length
that Nature and Reafon could go; that he not only
acknowledg'd a Supreme Power, to whom Man-
kind ow'd his Homage for the good receiv'd, and
who would not fail, in a Life to come, to diftribute
Rewards and Punilhments, agreeable to the Life
andCondu6tof every Man here: Butown'dalfo that
Worihip as a Natural Debt, to be paid by all Man-
kind 5 hence upon the Door of the Temple of the
fevei al Gods he caus'd to be written, as a Dire6lion
to all Mankind, this ihort Precept, a Jove princi--
pium ; intimating that every A6bion of Man's Life
ihould be begun with Application to the Gods.
They add, that Numa had a profound fincere Ve-
neration for the Creator of all things, as the
Author of Life, and the fupreme God of Heaven
and Earth, and that he wanted nothing to be a
fincere Worfhipper of the true God, but a true
Revelation from Heaven, inlightning his Mind, and
guiding him to know what way of Worihip that
God would be pleafed to accept.
They give us feveral other Examples of Great
and lUuftrious Men, who tho' profefs'd Heathens
in the manner of Worfhip, and the immediate Ob-
jeft, yet form'd their Notions upon juit and noble
Principles, ftriftly adhering to the natural Princi-
ples of Religion, clofely purfuing Juftice in Go-
vernment, Impartiality in matters of Right, pre-
ferving Virtue and Honour in the People, and ma-
king wholfom Laws for their better Government,
upon all Occalions; fuch are Lycurgus the Lacedcemo-
nian^ Confucius the Chinefe^ Solon the wife Philofo-
pher, and fundry others.
They alfo name to us the Books of the Sybils^
which, fo far as they are difcover'd, they fay are
fiird with fiimmary Rules for well- governing Man-
kind, and directing a due Homage to the great God,
O 2, But
^6 A S T S T E M
But let US look thro' all this. God for wife
Ends did not think fit to accept thefe little Ema-
nations of Natural Light, or to reveal himfelf to
the Perfons j however fincere they may be faid to
be in the piirfuit of Divine Light j as then they
were left to the dim and dusky Shadows of natu-
ral Reafonings only, fo it appeared that thofe natural
Reafoningswere notfufficient to inform the Mind of
Man concerning God 5 But that when they had
done all, for want of farther Illuminations, the Devil
was fufFer'd to chop in, and confound all their
brightelt Ideas of Worfhip, with a horrid Rhap-
fody of complicated Idolatry.
This very Obfervation is fufficient, or at leafl:
it might be expc6bed that it fhould be fufficient, to
crudi the Notions which our more Polite Gentle-
men now advance, in favour of the fludy of Ma-
gick, as an Art or Science only 5 They con-
tend that the Word Magick is greatly miftaken,
and that we do not underftand what wefpeakofj that
Magick is nothing elfe but a recciv'd well-guided
way of thinking and ading -, that it is truly the
Science of Reflexion, and the Art of making a
right Judgment of things, by giving every Objcd,
however diflant, its due Weight j thinking of things
according to the true Rate of them j that the hu-
mane Judgment is in its felf infallible, and therefore
in fome manner equal to the divine Being} a Light
iffaed from Heaven, and darted by Emanation into
the Souls of Men j which, if rightly cultivated and
improved, and efpecially it fincerely follow'd, ad-
her'd to, and obeyed, guides the Soul to underhand
things in a fuperior way 5 This they fay is Magick:
the very Word which intimates a laperior and di-
vine Knowledge, leads to underftand what it
means 5 and this, fay they, duly follow'd, would
from the Beginning have made Men be, as the Ser*
pent told them they fliould be, viz. like Gods,
knowing Good and Evil. Now
of M A G I C K. ip7
Now thefc fine-fpun Notions or Imaginations, I
fay, are fully anfwer'd, by taking Notice, that there
is apparently no fuch Infallibility in Man's Judg-
ment, unlefs affifted by a yec higher and fuperior
degree of Illumination 5 that is to fay, unlefs God,
the Author of all perfect and compleat Illumina-
tion, {hould add to it the Revelation of himfelf,
and of his Mind and Will, giving the Man Rules
and Laws for his farther Illumination, and for
the Diredion of himfelf.
This appears in the Particular mentioned above,
namely, that notwithftanding Man's infallible Judg-
ment led him to the Knowledge of a Divine Be-
ing, and that there was a great firft Caufe, Infi-
nite, Eternal and Superior, becaufe Prior to all Be-
ing, and that this firit Being had a Right to the
Homage and Obedience of his Creatures 5 yet 'till
God by Revelation directed it, all the Perfedion
of human Judgment could never lead Mankind to a
right Knowledge of the Worfhip and Homage
this Great Being requir'd. But they funk down in-
to Idolatry, worfhipping many Gods, and Images,
the Reprefentations of Gods 3 and in a word, into
the groiTefl and duUeft Conceptions of things re-
lating to their Deities, fuch as one would think it was
impoffible humane Judgment, under any manner of
Improvement, could fall intoj things unworthy of
GoD, nay unworthy of Men. Hence they made
their Jupiter^ the' they call'd him the Father of
Gods and Men, a horrid Pifture of ungovern'd Luft,
a Ravager of the World, ravifhing Innocence and
Virtue, transforming himfelf into divers Shapes, to
obtain his vicious Defircsj as into a white Bull, to
carry away Europa -, into a golden Shower, to fall
into the Lap of Dam^^ and the like. Here is the
Pidure of infallible humane Judgment ! Wonder no
more that at laft it carry'd them all headlong into
the Arms of the Devil^ and not only to be ignorant
O 3
of
15)8 A S T S r E M
of the Worfliip of the true God, but to pay the
Homage they ow'd to their Maker, to him who
was their Deflroyer and Enemy.
Thus Numa^ with all his Sincerity and Piety, re*
Iblv'd all his Ideas into a confus'd Mafs of idola-
trous Ceremonies, adorning the Priefts, forming
new Orders and Degrees of his Clergy 5 and, in a
word, drawing a Scheme of pompous Paganifm^
eftablilhing Games, and inhumane Fightings of
Gladiators, Races and Exercifes for Sport, in Ho-
nour of the Gods : Befidcs crowding the City with
Temples and Altars, to innumerable and unknown
Deities 3 fo that, in a word, after he had acknowledg'd
that there was a fupreme Power, a God of all the
Earth, a great firft Caufe of Life, and to whom all
Homage was due, I fay, after all thefe fublime
Ideas, he yet funk down into the grofleit of all Ido-
latries, the worshipping imaginary Gods, deifying
the Stars of Heaven, and offering Sacrifices, build-
ing Temples, dedicating Priefts, and making Vows
to Stocks and Stones, the Work of their own
Fingers, and the Idols of their own Brain.
Will any one think we wrong the Pagan Inftitu-
tions, much lefs the Inftitutors, to fay, that the
T>eml had a Finger in all this? does not Satan in
Policy fufFer an Appearance of Virtue and Piety
to be fet up, to mock the World into true Devil-
worfliip? How could he fet himfelf up to be
worfhip'd as a God^ and how could he make himfelf
truly \\\tQod of this World, if he did not enjoin to
his Worshippers, at leaft feemingly, fome Forms of
Life, and appearing Principles, agreeable to the
Rules of Virtue and Honour ? 'Tis by this that in
general he has carry'don the Delufion, and this, as I
may fay, has been the Magick of his Art, as well
as the Art of his Magick.
The Romans were the moft civiliz'd Heathens
that the World ever faw j their Government had
in
of M A G 1 C K.
m it all the Appearance of Juftice and Moderation}
they honour'd and rewarded Virtue and Honour,
Love to our Country, Courage, Gallantry : How
did they crown thofe that fav'd a Citizen, give
Triumphs to thofe that had conquered their Ene-
mies, give Prizes to thofe who excell'd in the moft
commendable Things? How did they honour Cha-
flity in their Veftal Virgins 5 Temperance, Elo-
quence, Learning and Philofophy in the Perfons of
thofe that excelled, and ered Statues to their Me-
mory when dead ?
Yet all this while their Religion was Devil-wor-
fhip } their Augurs and Southfayers, and the Priefts
of their Temples and Oracles, were Diviners, Ma-
gicians^ Wizards, and in the very Letter of it Deal-
ers with the Devil^ and that in the worffc Senfey all
their Sacrifices, and their Inftitution of Games, for
appealing the angry Gods, were the molt horrid
and barbarous Pieces of Ignorance, or heliilh Cru-
elty and Brutality, that could be imagined, even
fometimes to human Sacrifices) and in all thofe ex-
cefTes of their Devotion, the Devil led them on
blinded by flrong Delufions to fuch Performances,
in order to appeafe the Wrath of Heaven, as were
unworthy of God, inconliiknt with his Nature, as
a bountiful beneficent Being, as a fountain of Good-
nefs and Mercy, infinitely CompaiTionate to his
Creatures j and who could not take Pleafure in
thofe things which were injurious to Mankind,
in order to be reconcird to them, or be pacify'd
by dcflroying thofe, whom it was his glory to fave
and prote6b.
All the while that they erefled Temples to Ju-
ftice, to Honour, to Virtue, and to Peace, they
ftudicd ail poflible ways, by War, and Blood, to a-
mafs Treafures, and enlarge their Empire, 'till,
as the Roman Hillories confefs, they left no Na-
tion unfubdued, except fuch as they found it not in
O 4 their
too A SYSTEM
their Power, or worth their while to Conquer j
that is to fay, fuch as the Parthians^ who were too
powerful for them to conquer, and fo poor when
'
conquer'd, as not to be worth the Attempt 5 or the
Indians and jEthiopians^ who tho' rich, yet were fo
remote and fenc'd by wide unpayable Defarts, an4
prote6bed by the excefSve Heat of the Climate, fo
that it was not in their Power to aflault them.
Their Armies were not able to endure the March
thro' the Libyan Sands, or over the Mountains and
yaft Waters of India^ under or near the EquinoXj^
and where there was nothing to fhelter or relieve
them under the exceffive and violent Force of the
Sun.
All the reft of the World, as I have faid, they
fcontinually invaded and fubdued, and matter'd not
the Reafon and Juftice of the War, if the Reward
of their Treafures, and the Advantage of Govern-
ing them, was apparent.
Thus Cafar invaded the Gai^ls^ the Helvetians^
the Germans^ without any juft Pretence of making
War, except only that of Conqueft, Plunder and
Dominion. What Pretence of War had the Romans
againft a quiet, a remote, an inofFenfive Nation, as
the Britains certainly were? They neither ofFer'd
to difturb the Roman Government, or were in
Condition to do it 3 having no Knowledge of Arms
equal to any fuch Attempt, no Alliances or Cor-
refpondence with any of the Romans Enemies, no
Ships to traverfe the Ocean, and make them ter-
rible.
Nothing caird Cafar over hither to invade the
innocent Britains^ but thirft of Glory, and enlarg-
ing Dominion y a Principle imbib'd from the
tyrannick Nature of the Devil y to raife humane
Glory, not by Deeds truly Great, not by virtuous
A6lions, but by defiroying and infulting the Weak
in Prefumption of Strength, and by ihedding
Blood
of M A G 1 C K. 101
Blood to triumph over the Wrongs and Opprcf-
^on of their Fellow-Creatures.
And what was the Reward of C^far's Ambition
and Third; of Glory ? A Conqueft indeed he gain'd 5
but of what, and for whom ? a Conqueft of Inno-
cence, and a Conqueft for the Devil 5 the fruit of
which was thus to be fumm'd up: They, firfl and
laft, deftroyed two Millions, fome think five or fix
Millions, of the Inhabitants 5 they fpilt alfo an Ocean
Roman Blood 5 eighty thoufand Romans were killed
at one time by the gallant Queen Boadicia at Ca-
molodinum^ now Maiden in EJfex 5 and after a Pof-
feifion of above fix hundred Years, they were forc'd
to abandon it with Infamy and Scandal, and fo end-
ed jull where they began.
Whence was all this, but from the Devil? whofd'
Government of the World had this Magick in-
deed always in it, that it fpread Cruelty and Ty-
ranny in all Parts, founded Dominion in Blood, and
made the World a Theatre of Rapin and Vio-
lence.
This was the fecret Magick of his Government,
and yet this was always carried on under the Mask
of Juftice, Peace and Religion; that is to fay, Ava-
rice was Juftice, and to gain the Plunder of a Na-
tion was a fufficient Pretence to quarrel with and
fubdue it: Conqueft then brought Peace j that is to
fay, when Rapin or Slaughter had impoverifh'd or
extirpated a People, then the Romans gave them
Peace, and protected the Remnant j and as to Reli-
gion, the Subftance of it was, as above, Cruelty
and Superftition.
This is the Sum of the Roman Polity^ and of the
Methods taken in a Government and by a People
who, as above, are faid to be the moft civilized of
all the Pagan Nations and Governments in the
.World 'y and this, in a word, ferves to open the
Eyes of Pofterity, and betrays the Devil's Confpi-
racy
201 A s^ r s r E M
racy againfl Mankind in the openeft manner poP-
fible. The Magick of Hell difcovers it felf here,
that under the fpecious Pretence of juft Govern-
ment, and under the Fame of a civiliz'd Nation,
governing themfelves and the World by the Rules
of Jullice and Virtue, a Loofe was given to all man-
der of Barbarifms, Cruelty, Blood and Oppreflion.
It is clear in fo many Examples, that 1 need fay
no more to explain it, that the Roman Govern-
ment and the Roman Religion was all founded on
a Diabolical Regimen, and was maintained by the
Magick and Artifice of the Devil and his Iniiru-
menrs } which Inftruments were chiefly the Priefts
of the Idol Temples and Worfhip, who by the
Subtilty of their Arts (Religious Art, the worft
fort of Magick) made fuch deep Impreflions on the
Minds of the deluded World, that not the com-
mon fort only, not the Vulgar, or as we fay the
Canaikj the Mobb and Rabble of the People came
into it, and believed the lying Wonders 5 but the
learned World, the Philofophers, the Poets, Men of
the moft exquifite Parts, and the mod polite Know-
ledge, nay ofthe nobleft Principles of Virtue, and who
had the moft refined Ideas of Juftice and Honour,
even thefe all came into the Delufions of this Black.
y/r/, believed, and, as I may fay, relifhed the Witch-
craft and Delufions of the Magicians and Sorcerers,
and were taken with their lying Wonders j even the
Cato'Sy the ^ullfs^ the great and the greateft He-
roes, Philofophers, Scholars, 'twas all one, they were
fwallowed up by the Arts of the Magicians and
Southfayers j nay, their Kings ftooped to deal in
this Black Art themfelves. Romulus the Founder
of the City of Rome^ and the firft Father even of
the Roman Name, was himfelf a Southfayerj that
is to fay, a Magician, a Diviner or Inchanter> in plain
Englijh a Dealer with the Devil, and the great Pro-
pagator of the infernal Arc 5 I fay, the great Pro-
pagator
of M A G I C K io3
pagator of ir, for he was the firft that inftituted the
Augurs in the Pagan Worihip, and, as I faid, Hook'd
in the Magicians into their Religion, making all
the Wizards and Conjurers, Priefts j tho' I muft
infift upon it, not Romulus^ Numa^ or the Devil
himfelf , could make all the Prieits Conjurers, no
not to this Day.
Some have been of Opinion that Nmna Pompilius^
who I have faid was fincerely inclin'd to Religion,
as it was fimply underllood to be a meer Homage
due from Man a Creature, to God the Creator 3 that
he afted from a fincere Principle, and that he went
farther towards eftablifhing the true Religion, than
any Pagan in the World ever did before him.
But they add, he was loft for want of revealed
Light : that having determined by the Light
of his Reafon that there was a God, and that he
was to be worfhipped, but not knowing how or
in what manner that Worfhip was to be direded,
and not being able to find out by his utmoft Search
what Worfhip would be acceptable. He funk into
Idolatry and Polythcifm, as the only Pattern that
was before him j with this Addition, that having
thus taken his Rife from a wrong Beginning, his
devout Temper hurried him on into all the Ex-
tremes of Idolatry and Paganifm, 'till at length he
came into this very Mifchief I am fpeaking of, I
mean, Magick, Sorcery, and dealing with familiar
Spirits, that is, the Devil.
This is juft what I had faid already; but it is
moft certain, that though at firft they aftcd up-
on feme Foundation of natural Principles, or if
you pleafc. Principles of Natural Religion : Yet
they afterwards run farther into this Sorcery and
Southfaying, and that with fuch an univerfal
Guft of Inclination, that it became a chief Part of
their Religion; and there were very few of their
g^reat Men, nay even of their Kings and Empe-
rors,
r
104 A S T S r E M
rors, but what were Magicians themfelvcs 5 and
forae of them, if not all of them, took it for a
Part of their Imperial Titles, and a Badge of their
Honour, to be called Pontifex Maximus^ and fome-
times appeared in the Robes of a Sacrificer, and of
this or that Order of the Priefts, as they thought
fitj 'till at length unfufFerable Pride and Infolcnce
led them to accept of divine Honours themfelvcs, to
lay afide the Prieft, and affumc that of a God \ placing
themielves fo above the Sacrificer, as tofuffer them^
felves to be facrificed to : But this went but a little
Way.
At length the Chriftian Religion, in fpite of
Perfecution and obftinate Reliltance, both from the
Jews as well as the Pagans, began ro fpread it felf
in the World : and as Chrift himlelf fays, that he
came to deftroy the Works of the Devil^ fo it ap-
peared> for immediately the Glories of the Pagan Su-
perilition began to fade, their Oracles ceaj)'d, the
Priefts became dumb 5 and the Z)^i;/7, not able to car-
ry on the Cheat any farther, threw it up ; the Au-
gurs and Southfayersfled from the Face of the Chri-
itian Doftrine, and from the Preaching of the A-
poftles and their Succeflbrs, as not able to exercife
their Sorceries and Divinations, no not fo much as
in the Prefence of the Chriftian Minifters.
We have two remarkable Inflances of this in the
facred Text 5 one is jlcis xiii. 7. when being at
the Ille of Cyprus^ Elymas the Sorcerer ventured
to withftand St. Pauly when he preached the
Word of God to Sergius Paulus the Governourj
but for the audacious Attempt was ftruek blind
by the miraculous Word of the bleflcd Apoftlc, fo
being madeanlnltrument to confirm theGovernour
in his Faith, and compleat the Converfion which
the conjuring Wretch fought to oppofe, 'ver. 12.
^he Deputy^ when he faw what was done^ belkvedy
keing aftonijhed at the boUrine of the LORD.
of M A G 1 C K.
The other Inftance is in AEls xix. ip. where indeed
there is a double Evidence j Firft^ of the Power of
the Chriftian Do£trine prevailing over the Magick
and Diabolick Arts then in Pra6tice ; and, Secondlyj
of the prodigious Encreafe of thofc Magical Delu-
Jfions among the Romans^ however wife and polite
a People they were; the Story is fhort, and fully to
the purpofe. St. Paul^ preaching at EphefuSy made
a wonderful Progrefs in converting the Pagans of
that great City, to the Chriftian Faith. Some Hi-
flories tell us, he converted one hundred thoufand
People there and in the Country adjacent j but
that by the way: In a word, the Text fays, 'i^^r. 17.
the Name of the Lord Jefus was magnify'd. And how,
but by this eminent Vi6lory over the Devil? For
(bcfides the Conqueft of the Exorcifts who went a-
bout to caft out a Devil by their Conjunngs and
Spells) the Magicians themfelves were converted by
Paul's preaching, and that to a prodigious Number
of them, ver, ip. Many alfo of them which ufed cu^
rious Arts^ brought their Books together^ and burned
them before all Men : and they counted the Price of
them^ and found it fifty thoufand Pieces of Silver,
What a height muft the Black Art of the Devil be
come to at that time, that the Books which were
to be found in that one City iliould amount to fuch
a Sum of Money ? I give this Account, as I have
faid, to let you fee to what an extravagant height
the Devil had carried this Matter j and how and
in what manner he fupported his Interefl: in the
World. But I mufl: go back to the Beginning of
things, where I lefc off, viz. at the Infticution of
the Jugursy who were for forae Ages the Engroflers
of all thefe Delufions in the Roinan Empire.
The Augurs were a fort of Roman Priefts, who
pretended to foretell Events by Omens, by the
chattering of Birds, howling of Dogs, and other
uncouth Noifcs of any kind \\\ the Air: They were
crcfted
20J
20C, A S Y S T E M
erefted into a Society, and formed in a College or
Hall by the King's fpecial Order j the Number at
firft was but three, one being taken from every
Roman Tribe 5 and while they were thus few, the
Dignity was very valuable, and it was highly
efteemed among even the PatricH and Nobility.
Servius Tullius encrcas'd their Number to Four, and
caufed them to be taken only from the Nobility :
Afterwards ^intus and C<eneus Agellims obtained
that Five more ihould be added to their Number^
and fliould be chofen out of the Pleheii or Common
People. So ambitious were the Romans of this
Diabolical Preferment, and fo much Honour had
the Devil's immediate Servants in the World j nay,
upon this Increafe of their Number to Nine, the
Government was fo refolute againft lowering the
Price of that Reverence and Efteem they had
among the People, that they pafled a Decree a-
gainft encreafing their Number any more.
However Sylla^ one of the moft bloody and
cruel Tyrants of his Time, that he might, accord-
ing to Cuftom, join his Care of Religion to his
Third: of Blood, added fix more > fo that now their
Number was fifteen. The cldeft, whether in Years
of longeft {landing in Order, (I am not pofitive
which) was made Father or Prefident of the College,
and had the immediate Direftion of all the reft.
Their Privileges, like their Inftitution, were ex-
orbitant J for they were never to be depofed or ex-
pelled, no not for any Crime how great foever,
nor their Places filled up by another.
N. B. Crime did not render the Devil's Agents
fcandalous in their Profeflion, but rather the
wickeder they were, the fitter for the Prieft-
hood or Augurate. How far the fame Max-
im may hold in fone of the facred Order in
the World at this time, if I was of their
Number, I ihould not vote to have it examined.
And
of MAGIC K. 107
And now for the Ceremonies of the Angurs
Trade J for we muft note, that the Art Magick
bad always abundance of dark and uncouth Uftges
attending it, as it has to this Day, raiiing the
De^il was not done with a Whiftle, "like calling a
Dog 5 or with a Beck of the Head or Hand, as we
beckon to Servants when we call them filcntly
to come near us j the Dez^il knew very well that
his Affair muft be clothed with Ceremony, or it
would not take with the World, or at leaft would
not hold long in it.
The Pagan Rites were indeed loaded with Bur-
thcnfome Ceremonies 5 all the DeviPs Worfhipwas
filled with Conjurin^s and Mutterings, ftrange Ge-
flures, Agitations, Ecftafies, and I know not how
many Diftortings of the Limbs and Countenances,
wild Pradices and frightful Noifes, that filled tbci
People with Terror, and with a kind of awful
Horrour at the Majefty of their Gods.
The j^ugurs Obfervations were attended with a
great Variety of thofe things, as the apparatus to
xheir Vifions, or whatever elfe they were to be
.called. The Augur firft placed himfelf upon a high
Tower like one of our Obfervatories, and perhaps
the Tower ereded upon a high Hill, as upon the
Mons Palatinus in Rome: Here he feated himfelf in
the cleareft Day, or in a Star-light Night, to ob-
ferve what came by him, or in his Sight, by Day,
or what he might hear or fee by Night.
He held in his Hand a Lituus^ that is, a crooked
Staff, with which he ufed a great many wild Ge-
llurcs and Motions 5 and he had on, his grave Leena^
'that is, his Southfaying Gown or Mantle : He
placed himfelf always with his Face to the Eaft,
and at his firft fixing his Station he utter'd cer-
tain Sentences and exotic barbarous Words, which
none knew the Meaning of but the Be^vil and
himfelf.
Being
2o8 A SYSTEM
Being thus featcd and fix'd, as I have faid, he
quarters out the Heavens, or Hemifphcre rather, into
four Parts or Regions, each Quarter having before-
hand fuch and fuch Predidions affign'd to it : If it
was Day, then he was to mark every Bird that rofe
up, or eame flying by, or towards him ; which of
the faid four Quarters he firft appear'd in, and thert
killing his Sacrifices, and muttering over cer-
tain Sentences, joyning fome petitionary Speeches
to fuch or fuch a Deity, or Daemon rather, (which
Speeches were call'd Effata) he then proceeded to
Divination.
If it was in the Night, he obferv'd in the like
manner any fiery Meteor, any flying or fliooting
Fires, any fudden Vapour, (as the Nights are full of
fuch things,) or any Cloud eclipfing the Light
of any particular Planet or Star of the firft Magni-
tude 5 and then he proceeded in the fame manner,
only with fome particular Words and Mutterings^
as regarded the feveral Appearances refpeftively.
In the Night, it was faid, they had the Company
of feveral Spirits affifting them, and communica-
ting to them the Knowledge of the Things theyde-
iir'd. Their Divinations were arbitrary and pofi-
tive, nor durft any Man ask or enquire of them thfe
Reafon of what they predicted, or how they came
to know that it would or ftieuld be fo and fo. A
Provifion, Imuft confcfs, very prudent in the Priefts,
and which, as the cafe has ftood with fome of
them, would be very much to their Convenience
to this Day, as I fhall fhow in its Place.
By this taking fuch a kind of State upon thenif,
they politickly preferv'd the Reverence and Efteerii
of their Order, and imprinted a kind of Awe in the
Minds of the People, concerning not the Holinefs
of their Perfons only, (tho' that went a great way,)
but concerning the divine Myfteries, as they were
caird, which were put into their Hands > and they
were
of M A G 1 C K. 40^
^^c^e look'd upon as Perfons to whom the Gods
had commicted the moft fecrct Things than were
otherwife known only to themfelves, and were com-
municated to the Augurs^ Favourites of the God5,
for the good of Mankind.
A Learned Author, fpeaking of this Myftery of
Southfaying, fays, it came firft from the Chaldeans^
who taught it to the Greeksy of whom Amphiaraus
was an eminent Proficient ; but he mentions no-
thing of who taught it the Chaldeans^ in which I
believe my Account is the mofl authentick j name*
]y, that the Devil taught it to the Arab I have
mcntion'd, or to fome other^ if any was before
him; that thefe gave it to iht jEgyptians^ and Cbal"
deans^ and Phoenicians^ much about the fame timejj
and that the Phoenicians taught it the Greeks ^ their
Prince Cadmus being an eminent Southfayer: and
fo you fee its blefled Original.
. In a word, as it is a particular Familiarity with
the D'evil^ and depends entirely upon his Afliftance^
fo no body can contend that he was not the firft
Introducer of it as an Art; fince, as I obferved, he
might eafily begin a Correfpondence with Manj
but it was utteiTy impoffible that Men fiiould be-
gin a Correfpondence with him; or know where to
find him, and how to call him to their Afliftahce^
whatever the Occafion might be, without his Di^
reftion, Affiftance, and Confent. \
As to the Introducing it from one Nation to a-
nother^ it may indeed be fomething difficult to afiigii
the manner; But as to the meer divining upon th^
flying of Birds, upon Noifes, and Appearances
in the .Air, the Chattering of Pyes, the, Croak-
ing of Frogs and Ravens, and the like, I take rilucH
pf that to be meer Juggle and Legerdemain of the
Priefts and. Augurs; and they have carry'd on the
i"ggl^"g Trade to a great PerfeSign in the farn^
P Coiificry
2IO A s r s r E M
Country to this Day j [jiand clear Dominicans:)
of which hereafter.
But now for a downright Converfe with the De-
yil^ I don't underiland that Satan ever ty'd himfelf
down by Articles, that not only fuch and fuch a
"
Man as my Arah^ or Alt Albrahazen^ of whom I
have fpoken, fhould be able to call him up when
they pleas'd, by fuch and fuch Forms, Ceremonies,
Voices and Sounds 5 but that to whomfoever they
fhould communicate the fame Tokens, or Watch-
words, they fhould have the fame Power, and that
the very Words fhould call him or his Agents up
to an Appearance, whoever made ufe of them.
This would have been to have the Devil bind
himfelf Prentice to them and their Heirs for ever j
and to have chained himfelf down, Gallyflave like,
to the found of the Words, which I take to be quite
"wide of the Cafe 3 nor would it ferve his Defigns,
for the Devil loves to know his Agents, and not be
at the call of every Boy, becaufe perhaps his Grand-
mother told him the Words which fhe ufed to raife
the Devil with, or becaufe the Devil and ihe had a-
greed upon the Matter. But no doubt Satan, who
is certainly the Author of all this kind of Magick,
and which therefore and for that very Reafon is
call'd by his Name, Diabolick 5 I fay, no doubt,
as he is the only Teacher of the Art, fo he
reaches it immediately by himfelf} that is, he makes
Men Magicians^ and Wizards, and makes old Wo-
men Witches (ay and young too) by an immediate
Converfe andContra61: with them only, and between
them and himfelf Nor does he ilick at the Pains
of beginning a-new with every Perfon, and in e-
very Country j and this is the Reafon why the
Black Art, as we righteoufly entitle it, is not the
fame in all Countries, nor is the Devil talk'd to in
the fame Words, for then all the Witches and Ma-
gicians
vf M A G I C K. ill
gtclans of every Nation muft learn the fame Lan-
guage; but on the contrary, as the Devil talks all
Languages when he pleafes, fo he talks to every
one of his Difciples in their own Mother Tongue,
and directs them to do the fame to himj fo that a
Roman Wizard calls him up in Latin ; a Tufcan
Conjurer in Italian 'y a High German Doftor makes
his Circles, and calls his Figures, and talks Ma-
gick to him in the fuitable Tongue call'd High
Dutch 'j the fecond-fighted Highlander in /rj, and
the Lancajhire Lady in Englijh.
So propitious, fo civil, fo well-manner'd is Satan
to all his Drudges and Devotees, that he, to put
them to as little trouble as poflible, floops to hear-
ken to their Summons, as they think fit to exprefs
themfelves in their own, or any Language. Nay,
tho' the Magicians fometimes form a Cant of their
own, by which they amufe their Clients, yet their
familiar Friend takes it in good part, and on-
verfes with them in their own way.
Even the poor Indians^ Pawaw with him in the
Language of the mod Northern America^ the Ba-*
mans in the Language ofthe Eaft Indiatis^ the IJlanders
of Amhoyna in the Language of the Celebes and Mo^
luccos^ and the Chinefi in that of Grand tartary.
The Magicians feem to a6t in this Part, as if the
JDm/ condefcended to them, not they to him; but
then this makes it evident, that he converfes Per-
fonally with them all, that he makes his Bar-
gains and Agreements with them always feparately, •
in all Places, and in all Languages; whereas,
if he gave them a general Commiilion to empower
others to divine, inchant, and raife the Devil^ or
evil Spirits, they muft all underftand one univcrfal
Language.
The fum of the Matter is this-, the Z)m/, as a
Learned Author fays, has three ways by which he
carries on his Kingdom in the World, and by
Pi which
^l^ A S Y S T E M
^vhich he works all his Wonders, which amufe
and deceive them.
1. By moving the AfFedtions and Thoughts of
Men, whether lleeping or waking 5 and this, as it
refpeds his caufing them to dream on any Occafion
as he thinks fit, is one very coniiderable Branch of
his Power.
2. By his exquifitc Knowledge of Nature, by
which he turns the Caufes of things to his own
Purpofes, and often brings to pafs fuch Events as fuic
with his particular Occafions.
3. By Illufion and Fraud, impofing upon the
Senfcs, binding and blinding the Underlhnding and
the Eyes, both of the Body and of the Minds of
willingly-deceiv'd Men.
N, B. And I may add a fourth, which perhaps
he was not acquainted with in former times j
namely, by familiar Agreement, Compact and
Contrad with the Bright Men of the Times,
who he brings over to converfe and corre-
fpond with him, and who he ads by, and
allows them to play their Game and his own
together > and this is Magick.
Having then cftablifli'd a Correfpondence with
Man, we are not to wonder if, to gratify his new
Correfpondents, he empowers them to ad abun-
dance of flrange and unaccountable things in the
World, that they may by that means obtain a Re-
putation of being wifer and craftier than their
Neighbours, and may alfo be admir*d and efteem'd
firfb, and confequently believ'd.
Thefe Wonders they work by his immediate
Hand, by his Power and Affiftance, as well as Di-
redion j and this I call Magick^ and it is fo in the
word Senfe.
To this he fubjoins a Power, as it may be call'd,
over himfelfj authorizing the Magicians or Con-
jurera
of M A G I C K. i.^l
jurers to fummon him in to their Aid whenever
they have Occafion for him, to demand his Pre-
fence and Alliftance whenever they pleafe. Ic was
faid of Hamed an Mgyptian Sorcerer, that he had
the Devil fo at his Command, that if he did but
draw a Circle upon the Ground, and (lamp with
his Foot in the middle of it, the Devil would ap-
pear, and bring as many Devils with him, as the
Magician ftampt feveral times on the Ground 5 and
that upon their fo appearing, he could again fend themi
of fuch Errands, and for the Difpatch of fuch Bu-
iSnefs as he required > whether to do good or evil,
to bring on Mifchief, or to prevent Mifchief, as
he that fo caird him up pleas'd to direftj but I do
hot vouch the Truth of ihc DeviPs Complaifance
in this Particular, nor fee the Reafon of it.
If the Magicians in thofe ancient Days had fuch
Influence upon him, 'tis undoubtedly true that they
did him great and fignal Services, for, and by it>
or elfe Satan, who does not ufe to difpence his Fa-
vours gratis^ muft have fome fecret View in ir,
which they or we have not yet difcovcr'd.
This great Ufe which the Devil m^kts of Magicians
and Conjurers, is a certain Difcovery that he is con-
fin'd by a fuperior Hand in his Workings, and thac
he can only ad by Stratagem, by Cunning, and Crafr,
not by Force and Power.
It is reported of a Sorcerer in Romoy that he
could call for Lightning and Thunder whenever
Jie pleafed, and that the Devil would produce ic
for himj but that calling him up once to procure
Thunder, that (hould burn a Houfe, and do great
Mifchief, to gratifie the wicked Dcfign of the
Conjurer 5 he told him No, he could not gratifie his;
Revenge fo far, at lead: not at that time 5 and thac
the fame Sorcerer did at lall confefs, that the Spirit
^hich he convers'd with, could {how his Pqwer
P J
many
ii4 A S Y S r E M
many ways in a miraculous manner, but could not
do any Mifchief by it.
It may be true, and no doubt is fo, that the Ma^
gicians^ were they fully empowered, and at Liberty,
would really do more Mifchief than the Devil him-
felf, had he the fame Power j not that their Malice
can be greater, but their Policy is certainly lefs^
and as they do not fee fo far before them as he docs,
fo they do not always fee into the Reafon of things,
and whether it would be for the common Intereft
or no: for Example j were the Devil empovver'd
to fire Houfes, deflroy Families, lay wafte King-
doms, he might encline to do itj but his Pru-
dentials and Politicks might fometimes tell him,
that it would be more for his Intereft to let it a-
lone 3 and fo the Magicians likewife find it, I fay, for
their common Intereft, to a6t by Craft and Subtilty
as their Mafler the Devil has done before them,
rather than by open Rage and Fury- I mean for
their common Intereft as Mr?^/a^«j. The^Dfi;//, could
without doubt, in the ordinary Exercife of his Power
as a Spirit, burn, kill, deftroy, and in fome fenfe
put an end to God's Creation : But this would not
anfwer his End 5 he knows his Maker is his Go-
vernour, and could if he pleas'd punifh him imme-
diately, even as he cxprefles it in the Scripture, he-
fore his time : And he knows likewife, that when he
had dcftroy'd, and made havock of Mankind, God
could, v/ith the Breath of his Mouth, form a neW
Species, and that fuch a Kind as he fhould have no
Power over; and therefore 'tis not in ihort the
Devil's Intereft to make that Spoil in the World,
which as an Angel, as a powerful Spirit, he might
do; and efpecially if we fuppofe him not to be
chain'd and fetter'd down to fuperior Limitations,
which however we know to pur infinite Satisfa-
ction that he is.
of M A G I C K, i,
In a word, theZ)^i'7Ts Bufinefs, and all his Aim,
is not to deftroy, but to damn Mankind 5 not to
cut him off, and put his Maker to the trouble of
a new Creation, but to make him a Rebel, like
himfelf 5 and even this he is fain to bring to pafs by
Subtilty and Art, making ufe of Man againft Man,
arming Flefn againft Spirit, and fetting Nature in
Defiance ^i the God of Nature j and this by fe-
cretly correfponding with fome of the worft and
vileft abandon'd Wretches that he can findj in-
ftru6ling them, and teaching them his own Methods,
and fo making them Traytors to their own Kindj
drawing them in to engage wich him in ruining the
Souls and Bodies of others, and concerting Mea-
fures with thefe corrupted Inftruments, whofc
Principles he has firft debauch'd, that they may a6fc
and do for him, and in his Name, all the Mifchief
which he finds it is not for his Purpofe to do him-
felf.
While he thus lies behind the Curtain himfelf,
and is not fecn, or at leaft not publickly, he cor-
refponds moft pundually with thefe Agents, em-
powering and directing them by a great variety of
hellifh Arts and Contrivances to work Wonders,
amufe and impofeupon Mankind, and carry on all his
Affairs for him. And this is that we call the Black
Art, and fo I am come back to my Text.
If it be true that the Devil is the Prince of the
Air, then he can form Tempefts in ir, can poifon
and infe£t it fo, as that all Creatures, Humane as
well as fenfitive and vegetable, fhoiild perifh in it
;
But as he is yet a Prince under Limitations and Re*
ftriftions, fo he can exert no more Power than he
hasj and when his humane Agents, who are there-
in worfe Devils than himfelf, would be for Con-
flagrations, and general Deftrudlion > He wifely, or
rather cunningly, puts them off, and diverts them,
without telling them, or giving them room to
P 4 thinkj
tij '
A S Y S T E
think, that he really has not Power himfelf to cn^
able them.
It is impofUble to clofe this Article of the Magi-
cians Power being limited, without an agree-
able Reflexion upon the modern Furies of our
Age, your Party Leaders, and Politick Scheme-
JMakersj what merry work they would make in the
World, if the Devil^ their Head Engineer, was not
limited, and not in Condition to truft them with
the Power of doing Mifchief as they defire it.
Perhaps the Scnlb of this Limitation in the Pow-
er of iheir chief Correfpondcnt is one Reafon, that
however fludious they are to do Mifchief, yet they
have not fo much ftudied the Diabolical Art as they
would otherwife have done 5 in a word, they arc
not com pleat Magicians^ becaufe they fee the Black
Art is not wicked enough for them, and they can-
pot obtam a Power by it to out-fin the Devils
But I comeback to the Art it felf The Artifts are
certainly very helpfpl to the Devil^ as well as the
JDevil to them: For as he is obliged to work by
Stratagem, not by Force, all his Cunning is em-
ploy'd to carry on his Kingdom and Government
in the Worlds and this brings me to the Reafon
why the Devil does not care to a6t in Perfon, in
jnoil: cafes of his Adminiftration ^ but to employ
thofe People, whom we call Magicians^ that they
may a£b with his full Dire6lions, and tho' with
Art, yet with Power alfo fufficjent lb ftand bis
Ground againil: all humane Oppofition.
Under the Cover of thefe Agents he afts with
infinite Succef?, by their Influence he carries on
all his Affairs, and efpecially thofe of Kingdom
and Dominion, in which it is not for want of Im-
pudence if he does not rival or indeed dethrone
his Maker. By his fecret Correfpondence with
them it is that he fills the World with fham Won-
4crS;, and falfe Stories, which being detefted and
'
' expoipd^
of M A G I C K. \x7
cxpofed, reflects upon the Magicians^ not upon the
i)^z;/7} neither indeed ought it to afFe6t him, for that
it is not for want of his Affiftance if any of them
mifcarry, but from their expeding more from him
than it is fit he fhould grant, or than perhaps it is
in his Power to grant. No wonder then he is fo
ofKcious, and fo willing, that he runs and goes,
and dances Attendance upon a fet of ignorant Ma--
glciam-, I fay ignorant, except only as he inftrufe
them J 'tis evidently, becaufe he makes his Advan-
tage of them, and they aft for his Account..
*Tis then apparent, that the Magicians are
Inftruments by which the Devil carries on his Po-
litick Affairs in the World. It is time then, in the
next Place, to enquire in what manner they per-
form it, and from what Principles they adj and
then we fhall come to fome Hiftorical Account of
their merry Proceedings in the World.
A
System <?/^ Magick,
PART 11.
INTRODUCTION,
Of the Black Art it felf ; what it really isj
why there are feveral differing TPraBices
of it in the^ feveral ^arts of the Worlds
and what thofe Tra£iices are ; as alfb^
what is contained in it in General,
^'Have all along, till now, fpoken of the
general Correfpondence of the Devil
with Mankind, under the Head of
Diaholick Magick^ as a meer Intimacy
—5 only 'j I have reprefented it as a Method
which the Devil firft took, to form his Intereft and
Acquaintance with Mankind, when he was drown'd
cut of his Kingdom in the old World by the
Flood.
'Ti3
of M A G I C K. 11^
'Tis too certain that the DevH afted by this Me-
thod at firft, for the Propagation of his own De-
figns only, and to fet on foot a new Adminiflrati*
on of his Affairs 5 it being for many Reafons not
his Bufinefs tb a6t openly and barefacedly in the
World as a Devil 5 but now 'tis alfo as apparent,
that, after the Devil had thus eflabliihed a Corre^
fpondencc, he foon found Man as forward as him-
felf, as willing to embark with him and engage,
as he could defire 5 nay fo forward in the new
Trade, fo eager for Mifchief, fo glad of being ve-
iled with Power (tho' Infernal) to do it, and to
gratify thofe vilell of his Paflions, Envy, Revenge,
Malice and Strife, that the Devil himfelf, as is ob-
ferved in the laft Chapter, is forced to retrain him,
and gently to divert his Thoughts to fome lefs vi-
olent and lefs deflru6i:ive Methods; not being wil-
ling, and fometimes indeed not being able, to a£t
fo much the Devil as thefe new Hell-fire Agenis
would have him a6b it.
The Correfpondence being thus fettled between
the Devil and the Magician, and the Treaties be-
tween them figned, ratified, and exchanged in Form,
the Inftrument (iVlan) is immediately furnifhed by
the Employer (Satan) with all neceffary Qi.ialifica-
tions for his Bufinefs, and is compleatly qualify'd
for an Infernal Mountebank > and fo he falls to his
Juggling-box and to {hewing his Tricks, his Pawaw-
ing and Conjuring, and in a word, exercifing his
new Acquirements and Hellifh Talents upon Man-
kind} and rhis we call, and that with a great Pro-
priety of Speech, the BLACK ART.
The brief Definition of what we call the Black
jirt^ that is to fay, as I would have ic be under-
flood in the reft of my Difcourfe, is, that it is a
new general Term for all the Branches of that
Correfpondence which Mankind has maintained,
or does, or can carry oH; between himfelf and the
Devil,
J20 A S r S T E M
Devilj between this and the Infernal World j com-
prifing all the eight Particulars which I mentioned
before, as they are taken frbm the Prohibition of
them, and the Declaration againft them in the
Law oi Mofesy viz.
DivinifJg^ the fame as Southfafing,
Ohferving of 'Times.
Ufing Inchantment,
Witchcraft,
Charming^ or fetting of Spells.
Dealing with Familiar Spirits,
IVizardizing,^ or Sorcery^ thought to be the fam^
as Witchcraft, but miftaken.
Necromancing,
The Pra£l:ice of thefc, or of any of them, or of
all of them, is what we arc tounderftand by this ge-
neral Term the Black Art \ and as thefe feveral Parts
are exprefs'd after a differing manner, and per«^
haps praftis'd in a differing Form in feveral and re-
mote Parts of the World, it may be neceffary to
give a brief Defcription of them one by onej that
fo when we name them apart, I may yet be right-
ly underflood, and may need no more Digreflion?
for Explanation of Terms as I go on.
I. Divining, A Diviner I underftand to be the
fame as was antienly called a Southfayer-y this is ex-
prefly confirmed in Scripture, if you will take iis
Authority for any thing, Acts xvi. i6. ji certain
Damfel pojfejfed with a Spirit of Divination met us,
*ivho brought her Mafier great Gain by South faying :
So that Divination and Southfaying is the fame
thing.
N, B. Obferve that this Divination is here
called a Spirit, that is to fay, the Devil^ or ^
Devil 'y and he was really in her, for 'tis faid,
Paul caft him out of her.
This
of M A G I C K, lii
This Southfaying alfo, as we arc to underftand it,
'
contained all thofe leflcr Pieces of low-priz'd Art,
called, telling Fortunes, refolving Difficulties, find*
ing out and difcovering fecret things j and perhaps
all the juggling Part pra61:ifed at this time > and that
without any Correfpondence with the Spirit Python
that Paul caft out, or any other Spirit but that of
Fraud and Legerdemain, which the Divining or
Southfaying is only made a Cover to.
2. Obfervers of 7'mes, Thefe I take to be fome,
who, by Correfpondence with an evil Spirit, de-
clared fuch and fuch Days or Times to have a
particular Fatality, fo that no Bufinefs which was
undertaken on that Day could profper j and this
Part of the Black Art may take in fuch as carrying
on the Study of judicial Aftrology to the extreme,
and to the Gates of Hell, afcribe Events of Things
to the Government and Influence of the Stars, and
that Influence to be fo or fo direfted for Good or
Evil, according to the particular Polition, Oppofi-
tion, Conjun61:ion or Situation of thofe Stars or
Planets in differing Houfes j as if thefe could be the
Directors of the Fate of Perfons, Families and Na-
tions > and that the Events of things were directed
by them, and by the Seafons and Times of their
Stations here or there in the Courfe of their ordi-
nary Motion, whether dire6t or retrogade: In a
word, the Pra6lice of judicial Aftrology, tho' not
a dealing with, or by the Help of the Devil^ is
condemn'd here, as being a plain robbing Divine
Providence of its known Glory, in dire61:ing and dif-
pofing both Caufes and Events in all things relating
to the Government of Mankind, or indeed of the
whole World, and afcribing that to the poor
innocent unconcerned Stars or Planets which is
fmgly in the Dilpofition of him that made them.
The Stars and Planers are no intelligent Beings j
the^ have indeed a vegetative or adivc Life, but as to
Know-
222 A S r S T E M
Knowledge or Acquaintance of or with human AF-'
fairs they are entirely lifelefs Bodies, utterly incapable
of influencing or diredting any thing, or of any
Motion or Adion, other than by the Direftion of the
fatne Power and Providence which made and guides
them in common with the reft of the World.
3. Uftng Inchantments, Thefe are varioufly de-
fcrib'd by the Ancients 5 but to explain it by our
modern Terms of Art, this is what we call Con-
juring; and this is certainly performed by the im-
mediate Agency and Afliftance of the evil Spirit,
when the Magician ufing thefe Inchantments,
works by the fecret Aid of the Devil fome won-
derful thing, fo as to furprife the Beholders, and
make them think the Operator is vefted with fu-
pernatural Power, and confequently is fome ex-
traordinary Man. Thus when St. Paul healed the
lame Man at Lyftra^ the People, furprifed with the
Miracle, cry'd out prefently, ^fhe Gods are come
dcajn to us in the Likenefs of Men. Thus the Ma-
gicians in Pharaoh's Court made Frogs, turn'd the
Water into Blood, and the Rods into Serpents by
their Inchantments, that is to fay, by the immedi-
ate Hand of the Devih, who was permitted, k
feems, to increafe the Phguesof JEgypt^ doing Mif-
chief being his particular Talent : But I do not
read that whenever jiaron and Mofes denounced
any of thofe Plagues, the Magicians could ftop or
prevent them 5 if they could have done that
indeed, they had been worth Notice, but it
was quite otherwife ; for, left they fhould boaft
too much of their Power, they were reftrain-
ed, and not able to make Lice, tho' they had
made Frogs and Serpents •, but they were obliged
to acknowledge in publick, that they were unable
to do it, that it was the Finger of God, and that
he had put a ftop to their f nchantments 5 in a word,
it made them acknowledge that, according to an
old
of M A G I C K. 2Z3
old Proverb which, for ought I know, is derived
from thence, G OD is above the Devil.
4. Witchcraft. This is indeed the blackeft pare
of the Black Art it felf: I need not defcribeit any
farther than this, that it is a Power received im-
mediately from the Devil to do Mifchiefj to gratify
Rage, Envy, Malice, Revenge, and the vilell Paf-
fions of Men, giving it into their Hands to be-
witch Men, Cattle, Places and Things 5 to burn
and deftroy, tho' limited, as hinted before in many
Particulars 3 the Effefts of this Witchcraft we of-
ten fee, and fliall fay more to it in its Place.
This includes Perfons being immediately agi-
tated by an evil Spirit, carried often violently
into the Air by the Help of the DeviU and being
able to carry away others in the Air alioj and noc
toinfift upon all the improbable things faid of them,
and faid to be done by them> yet chat the Devil
certainly plays his Pranks by thofe Tools fomctimes
in a mod extravagant manner, I muft grant. Why
it is generally pra6tis'd by old Women only, is a
Point to be confider'd by itfelf.
In this Article of Witchcraft is included what we
call an Evil Tongue, an evil Eye, Curfing, Blading,
Bewitching, and abundance of Hellifh thmgs which
thofe Creatures are permitted to pradtife, to the
Hurt of thofe that they point their Malice againfl.
f. Charming. This is certainly a Piece of tJie
Black Art, and confifts of divers Branches, fuch as
fetting Spells, drawing Circles, within which if the
Perfon to be operated upon fets his Feet, he fhall noc
be able to ftir out of the Compafs of it with-
out Leave from the Charmer j likcwife Dozings,
giving Filters, Potions, and Hellirti Contrivances
to caufe Barrennefs, Impotence, Idiotifm, Lunacy,
Love, Hatred, and abundance more namelefs Wick-
cdnefles, which nothing but the Z)fi;;7 and Father
of Mifchief could empower them to ^0.
6, Dealing
[x24 ^^ SYSTEM
6. Dealing with Familiar Spirits. This is wKat
was more immediately proper to a Magician 5 I
mean, fuch a Diabolical Magician as I have been
defcribing j and as the Title exprefles it, is an im-
mediate converiing witH a Z)^w7, who always attendis
him at his Call, to come and go as he pleafes, to
confult with, be advifed and direded by, and in a
word, to do for him whatever He, the Magician
defires.
Thus we read that King Menaffes dealt with the
Devil 'y the Text fays exprcfly, he ufed Witchcraft
and Inchantments^ and dealt with a familiar Spirit, KvA
who could doubt it, from what followed? nothing
but a Man abandoned to Hell, arid that had the
Devil at his Elbow^ could have been prevailed with
to do what he did, which at that time was the
mod dangerous piece of Impudence that ever had
been heard of, viz. to fet a carved Image in the
, very Temple, the Houfe of God.
7. Wizards. This fome take to be nothing but
what they call a Man Witch 5 but in the Pra6ticc
it hath been carried farther^ namely, to be one that
confults with the Devil, to give Anfwers to difficult
Queflions, to reveal and difcover Corifpiracies, and
to govern the greater things of Lifej as to blaft ot
fucceed the Enterprizes of Princes and People 5 to
tell and foretell the Succefs of fuch and fuch Un-
dertakings j and even to influence the Undertakers.
Such a one as this was Baalim, who being fam'd
for a Wizard, was fcnt for a long way by the King
oF Moab to curfe the Camp and Army df the He-
brews.
The Northern Word ufed in our own Country
for this Kind is a Warlock, the antient Import of
which was one that could give good or bad Speed
to any Undertaking, or at leaft could foretell whe-
ther the thing enquired about ihould fuceeed or no*
Wa
of M A G 1 C K. xif
We have abundance of merry Tales fcatter'd a-*
broad in the Oral Tradition of antient times, and
among thofe antient things called Old Women^ con-*
cerning Wizards : how the Kings and Princes ufed
to eonfult with them, before they undertook any
great Enterprize : They tell you in the Norths
how an old Wizard warned King 'James IV of
Scotland who was killed at Flodden Field^ not to paft
the 7'weed with his Army, but encamp on the Nor*
thern Bank of the River^ and that if the Englijb
paflcd the Water of T^weed to attack him, he fhould
certainly defeat and overthrow them j but that if
he fought on Englijh Ground, he fhould lofe both
his Army and his Life 5 which accordingly hap-
pen'd. They relate the fame of old Mother Shipton
in England^ who, (tho' fo many Fables are made of
her) was a real and known Perfon, and was not a
Witch or a Prophetefs, but a iVarlock or Wizard^
and 'tis certain fhe did foretell to Cardinal fFoolfey
his falling into Difgrace at Court, his Lofs of the
King's Favour, and his Death > all which according*
ly happen'd.
8. The lalt of thefe is a Necromancer^ a Word
very antient, and containing indeed the Black Ate
in its full Perfedbionj this being One who not like
the Wizard foretold or prediftedj hut who, when
the People Came to him, would carry them to his
Originals, that is to fay, would go to work, and
bring the Devil up by his Art to talk with and do
their Bufinefs for them himfclf> and this indeed
might properly be faid to be a Teacher of tha
Black Art, that is to fay, not that he could tie the
Devil down to appear to the Perfon, whoever iC
was, that he took a Fee 0^^ and be at his Sum-
mons as he was before at his the Necromancer s own>
but if ever any Perfon had a mind to come into
the wicked Clafs, and have a Perfonal Conference
with the Devil in order to make a Bargain with
CL him,
Z2i A SYSTEM
him, the Necromancer's Bufinefs was to raife the
Devils prefent the Stranger, bring them acquaint-
ed, and then leave the Bevil and the Man to agree
the Matter among themfelves.
In a word, the Necromancer, (like the famous
Mr. TVhifton of good, lying, merry Memory) was the
DeviPs Broker, neither more or lefsj he brings
Grift to the DeviVs Mill, Cuftomers to his Shop,
and farthers his Trade, and his own Gain by the or-
dinary Method of his Employment.
It is true thefe blackeft of the Black-Art Men
have a great many other things in their Praftice,
befides that of brokering for the Devil -y they were
ufed to raife Storms, Whirlwinds, and Hurricanes,
by which they made themfelves very terrible to rhe
People, as if it was in their Power to do all the
mifchievous 'things in the World: By this they
brought in their Cuftomers, for the People ufually
brib'd them, as the Indians worfhip the Devil that
he may do them no Harm. The ftrong Opinion
the common People had of thefe Men in time
paft was fuch, that they would go to them for
Rain in Drought, and for fair Weather in Harveft,
for Abatement of Floods, and for prote£bing their
Cattle in Lightning and Thunder.
To fum them up all, the Diviner and Southfayer,
the judicial Aftrologer and Conjurer, the Inchanter
and Charmer, the Witch and the Wizard, the Ne-
cromancer and Dealer with a Familiar Spirit all put
together and pra<5lifed in their fulleft Extent, make
up this One Black Art which I am fpeaking of, in
its Perfe6tion 5 and in this Senfe I am to be under-
ftood in the following Part of this Work.
Only rake a few Hints by way of Obfervation,
on this Occafion, viz. that the Devil has fome lit-
tle Out-lyers and fculking Operators in the World,
and which he makes great ufe of, which may not
be faid to come under any of thofe Denominations > as
par-
of MAGIC K. ij;.
particularly our Second-fight Men in Scotland-^ the
Wind Merchants in Norway^ who fell fair and foul
Weather, Storms and Calms, as the Devil and you can
agree upon a Price, and as y >ur Occafions require
:
Alio in l.apland^ Mufcovy^ Siberia and other Nor-
thern Parts of the World, he is faid to a6t by dif-
fering Methods, and govern his Dominions by a
more open and arbitrary Method, not prcfcribed and
limited to Art and Craft as ^e does here.
We have alfo f >me new Praftitioncrs in Magick
among ourfelves, who deal with the Devil in a more
exalted fublime Way, and who, for ought I know^
are able to teach the Devil fomc new and more-
accurate ways of managing them, and the reft of
the World too, than ever he knew before. In a
word, inftead of enquiring at the Devirs Oracle,
and learning from him, I think the Devil muft even
come to School to them j for as Alphonfus ot Caftile
faid. If God Almighty had confulted ivith him when
he made the Worlds he could have Jhcwed him how to
mend it : So certainly, if the Devil had confulted
thefe Gentlemen m his firft Rebellion, they might
as well tell us, they would have fhewn him how to
have martial'd his Army better, and perhaps not
have loft the Day as he did 5 at leaft they would
take upon them to give him new Meafures for his
prefenc and future Conduft, that fo he may rebell
againft Heaven again v^^henever he pleafes, and ifhall
be fure to carry on the War (at leaft defenfively)
with better Succefs than ever he did before.
We have alfo fome modern Se6ls of Hellilh Di-
vinity not formerly known, no not to the Devil
himfelf > which feem to partake of the Black
Art in a peculiar manner, and which, tho' not con-
tained under any of the eight Heads already mentioned,
yet the ProfefTors claim to be incorporated among
the Devil's Graduates, and may be juftly eftecmed
Members of the Society of Deceivers > and that
Q. z ihcy
xis A S Y S T E M
they have pradifed the Black Art in a more exqui-
fite Method than any that ever went before them;
of whom, and of their Art and Management, if I
may obtain a Freedom of thinking in an Article of
fuch Importance as this, I may give you a very
profitable Defcription in the Procefs of this Hi-
flory.
There remains a Vacancy too for our Friends of
the Legend and Calendar, among whom we ftiall
find certain Red Letter Black-Art Men who deal
with the De'vil under the fan(5tify*d Vizor of the
red Hat^ the Coul^ and the 'tonfure\ among whom,
I fay, many have been, and many flill may be A-
gents of Hell in the moft abflrafted Senfe, and
therefore cannot be denied to be Pra6bitioners in the
Black Art, as efFcftually, and to all Intents and
Purpofes, as fully as ever the Monks of Loudon, or
the Patrons of Father Jetzer^ and the Maid of Kent ',
.of all which in their Order,
CHAP. I.
Of Modern Magick, or the Black Art as now
in its TraBice and TerfeSiion.
TH E antient Magick having by a long
Succcflion of Art and Time been handed
down to the Grecians, and from them to the Ro-
mans, we cannot but acknowledge that they went a
great way to the improving it, for they mingled
the Black Art fo entirely among their religious
Worfhip that it is not to this day poflible to diftin-
guifh between the Rites and Ceremonies of their
Gods, and the Inchantments and Charms, Conju-
rations and Divinations immediately direded by
the DeviL
I
'of M A G 1 C K, iz;
I
'^ I have mentioned fomething of this already in
their Augurs^ and the feveral Inftitutions of Romu^
lus^ Numa Pompilius^ and others; but nothing fa
efFeftually difcover'd the Black Art to be blended
with their Religious Rites, and the Craft of the
Devil with the Worfhip of their Gods, as the fet- •
ting up Oracles^ giving Refponfes, and folving
Doubts, as if by Enquiry of the Gods > whereas in-
deed it was all managed by the Craft of the De-
*vil^ and the Agency of thofe folemn Knaves the
Prieflsi and this I call Ecclefiaftick Magick.
There was not a little Knavery in the fetting up
the Augurs, in the Divinations and Predidtions
from the flying and chattering of Birds 3 and be-
fore that, in the Priefls poring upon the Intrails
of the Beafts facrificed to their Gods : Here this
Art went fuch a length, that the Truth is, the
Devil faw himfelf outdone by the Priefts, and
the Witchcraft of Superftition went beyond all
that Satan himfelf ever pretended to in the firft In-
llitution : So far did the crafty and avaritious Priefts
engrofs the Devil's Bufinefs, that they really feem'd
to take the very Trade out of his Hand, or as we
fay of an invading Tradefman that fets up under
his Mailer's Nofe, he takes the Bread out of his
Mouth.
The Greeks were the mofl: fuperftitious of all the
JD^wV-Worfhippers in the World, worfc than the
Perjians and Chaldeans^ from whom they borrowed
all the Fundamentals of their Idolatry, and far
worfe than the Romans^ who were afterwards their
Scholars: Image and Idol Worfhip were Eflentials
in all their Temples, which the Romans at firft re-
jedbed with Difdain; even Numa Pompilius^ihe moft
devout and fuperftitious of all the Romans^ defpis'd
it; and many of the moft learned of the Roman
Authors exclaim againft it as abfurd and ridiculous
;
however they came into it afterwards alfo.
Q 3
But
2.30 A S Y S r E M
But the Greeks^ I fay, from their particular Love
to Superftition, were the firft that worfhipped the
Images of their Gods : thus you read of the Ephe^
fiam having the Image oi Jupiter which came down
from Heaven 5 in like manner they had particular
Images in every Temple, and Temples almoft in
every Corner 5 and being the fitteft People to be
thus impofed upon and deluded, the Priefts who were
equally fubtle there as in other Places, invented (or
the Devil dire6ted them to) that grofleft of all Cheats,
the Oracles of their Gods j to whofe Temples they
conftantly repair'd for Anfwers in the moll difficult
and doubtful Cafes j and the Romans took it from
them.
Thefe Oracles were indeed the Devil's Mafter-
piece, for here the Priefts and himfelf juggled to-
gether in fo notorious a manner, that no Contri-
vance for putting a publick Cheat upon the World
ever met with the like Succefs : The Devil affift-
ing the Priefts gave Anfwers in the moft fubtle,
doubtful and ambiguous Terms imaginable, fo that
they frequently pofiefled the People with a Belief
of the Things predifted being come to pafsj where-
as it was all owing to the Double Entendre of
the Anfwers, v/hich left things to be underftood
any way the Priefts thought fit, and left the Priefts
room to fuggeft a Correfpondence between the O-
racle and the Event, when indeed there was no
manner of Similitude, no Coherence, or any thing
like it.
Hiftory gives feveral Examples of the ambiguous
doubtful Anfwers of the Oracles, and yet fo bigot-
ted were the Greeks to their Notions of them, that
on the Day of the great Battle at Platan with the
Ferfians they would not give Battle, tho' the Ene-
my was upon them, and began to trample down
their Infantry with the Horfe, till they knew the
Will of the Gods, as they exprefs'd it, and had a
full
of M A G I C K. xn
full Anfwer from the Oracle 5 the Soldiers fitting
ftill upon the Ground, and letting the Enemies cut
them in Pieces. But as foon as they had undcrftood
that the Oracle had given its Anfwer, and
that their Sacrifices for Vidory were favourable,
their Commanders afluring them that the Gods
were propitious, and that they had a Promife of
Viftory, they immediately rous'd up from their
Seats, form'd their Battalia or Phalanx, and fell on
with fuch Fury, that the Perfians and the other
Greeks that were confederate with them, were ut-
terly overthrown, and cut in Pieces.
It will not be amifs, in order to fliow the World
how great the Powers of religious Infatuations
were, and how far Mankind may be impos'd upon,
to give a fhort Account of but that one Day's Ac-
tion between the Grecian Army under their Ge-
neral Paufaniasj and' Mardonius Leader of the Army
of Xerxes the King of Perfia,
The Per/tan Army confided of three hundred
thoufand Per/tans^ the Flower o^ Xerxes's Army;
and fifty thoufand Gr^^y^j i thehans^ Macedonians ^nd
7'bej/aliam^ Auxiliaries or Confederates with Xerxes.
The Athenians and Lacedemonians confided of no
more than forty thoufand Grecians^ but old Soldiers,
and well arm'd, commanded by P^/(/^;^/^x, to whom
they had join'd indeed feventy thoufand Auxiliar
Militia, but thefe were only raw and unexperi-
enced People; nor had they any Dependancc on
them for their Valour or Difcipline, only for
making Excurfions, plundering, and the like.
' The Greeks had fent to enquire of the Oracle
* at Delphos^ to know the Succefs of the War, and
' were anfwer'd, that they fiiould certainly have
^ the Vidory, provided they fought the Battel up-
' on Athenian Ground^ or in the Plains of Ceres
' and Proferpinay and made their Prayers to fuch
^ and fuch Gods, Demy Gods and Nymph s, (Ex-
0^4 ' celknt
*3^ 4 S T S T E M
< ceJknt Conjuring and Magick to patch up ReligioH
^ with/
J
' This Anfwer of the Oracle was an apparen;
f Cheat^ for no body knew where this Piece of
* Ground could be: The Plain of Ceres was indeed
' op jithenian Ground-^ but then it was not near
^ where the Armies lay, and they being inferiour in
< Force, could not chufe their Ground, or fight
* where they pleas'd 5 But there was an old Temple
* pf C^res and Proferpina^ near their Camp, and
* iikewife fome dedicated Places ftcred to thofe
* Nymphs and Demy Gods fpoken of upon Mounp
f Ctiharon-y but then the Land belong'd to the Ci-
* tizens of Plataa^ and not to the Athenians^ and
* this perple^'d them much.
f While they were in this Uneafinefs, the Pla-
* taans^ to Ihew their good will, and encourage
* the Army, beftow'd all the. Lands which thofc
* Temples and dedicated Places flood on, and for
^ a large Space round, by Deed of Gift on
* the Athenians^ fp to caufe them to fight on jlthe^
* nian Ground.
' All things being thus clcar'd up, and the Ar-
f mies juft ready to engage, the Grecian General
* caufed Sacrifices to the Gods for Viftory to be
* brought to the head of the Troops j nor would
* the Athenians ilir, or llrikc a Stroke, till they
f were ended, and that the Priefls gave Signals of
* the Fortunate Omens. The Perfian Army ad-
f yanc'd, the Horfemen charg'd in upon the fore^^
f moft Troops, the Arrows flew in Clouds, and
f inany were flainj but 'twas all one, the Soldiers
f fat upon the Ground, and would not ftir a Foot.
? But as foon as Paufanias had Notice that the
*
Sacrifices were happily ended, and that he found
* thpfeTokens in the Entrails of the Beafls, which the
f Superflition of the h.^^ eftecmed Fortunate, and
I Signals of Succefss he immediately caus'd the
\ Army
of M A G 1 C K. 133
' Army to raife a Shout, and gave the Signal of
'
Battel: Upon which the Soldiers fuddenly rife
' up upon their Feet, with Acclamations, and re-
' ceiv'd the Charge of the Barbarians in fuch excel-
' lent Order, and with fuch undaunted Bravery,
' that notwithflanding the Enemy came pouring in
' upon them with their Multitudes, expeding to
* bear all down before them, yet the Perftans were
* repaired, and utterly overthrown, and Mardonius
' with above three hundred thoufand Men kill'd
' upon the Spot.
What Ecclefiaftick Magick was this ! what Super-
ftition, without ground ! The Sacrifices would have
gone on, tho' the Armies had engag'd j or if not,
why were they not brought fooner to the Place,
and how in a few Moments more might the whole
Army have been cut in Pieces without Refiftance,
for want of the Ceremony of a timely Sacrifice?
JBut fuch is the Power of Superflition, and to fuch
a degree of PofTeffion or Infatuation had the Devilj
by the means of his Inilruments the Magicians^
brought Mankind.
This I take to be the Meridian of the DeviPs
Influence, and when the Magick Diabolical was at
its greateft Height. The Romans were fuperftitious
enough, but not fo grofly given up : and yet theGr^-
fians were a wife Nation j the Athenians were fam'd
for Wifdom and Knowledge j for Philofophyj Arc
and Science flourifh'd among them to a degree be-?
yond all the reft of the World. Nay they defpis'd
the Wifdom of all the World in comparifon of
their own j yet fwallow'd up with the Magick of
Superftition, they were in ftiort bewitch'd by a
religious Sorcery, and run into Superftition to aij
excefs equal to Madnefs and Diftra£tion.
The Romafis^zs I faid above, followed them at the
Hells-, and tho' at firft the vvifeft of their Leaders
rejeftcd the Image Worfhip of the Greeks^ nay
ftpofl
134 A Sr S T E M
flood out one hundred and feventy Years from Nu^
rna Pompilius^ cfteeming it abfurd and impious to re-
prefent things glorious, by things bafc or mean;
yet 'Tarquinius Prifcus following the Ufage of the
Greeks^ (who, I fay, of all the Nations of the World
were the moft deluded by the DeviQ brought in
the Cuftora of fetting up the Images of their Gods
in their Temples; and in fome Ages after, this Ufc
of Images came up to fuch a height, and multi-
plied to fuch an infinite Number, that it was next
lo impofSble to know them one from another, but
they were oblig'd to write their Names over their
Statues and Images ; and the Numbers of their
Gods, and Demy-Gods, grew up to fuch a Multi-
tude, that they were oblig'd to marfhal them into
Regiments and Claffcs, Degrees and Orders, and
even of them too many to repeat. Such as Dii
Confentes SekSii^ Dii Patritiiy Dii Medii Infigniores^
Dii Mediorum or common Gods, Terreftial and Cce-
leftial Heroes, Gods and Demy-Gods, Nymphs,
sind in a word, an infinite Throng of Gods.
Happy Art! however Infernal and Diabolick,
that could furnifh Gods from the Street to the Capi-
tol; nay Dunghil Gods, Door-keeping Gods, and
Senate- Houfe Gods, Dii Cgnfcripti^ and above all
the reft, as the Learned Ladlantius fays, the Rabble
of Gods beatify'd by Men. Epimenides Cretenfis
erefted in the Athenian Plains the famous Altar to
the Dii Ignaiii^ the Unknown Gods, of which
St. Paul took Notice, for it remain'd there to his
time, when he made that fam'd Oration, Inimitable
for its Eloquence and Beauty of Language, as well
as Excellence and Strength of Argument, when he
ftood upon Mars-Hill at j^thens^ confuting the
Wifdom of the Philofophers, and perhaps Magi^
cians.
And whence now came all this Ignorance and
Superftition? but from the early Delufions o{ the
Devilf
of M A G I C k. 23J
DeviU carry'd on among Men Sy the help of this
we call Magick or Black Art^ and in all its feveral
Compofitions ? that is to fay, as above. Divining^
Southfaying^ Inchantment^ Whitchcraft^ Sorcery^ and
dealing with Familiar Spirits^ Necromancy^ and the
Devil,
Thefe things introduc'd Enthufiafm, Enthu-
fiafm brought up Idolatry, and then Witchcraft
and Magick brought down the Minds of Men to
a Meanncfs fit to be deluded by them.
It may not be improper to obferve here, that the
Black Art^ as thus explain'd, may be lefs needful
in thofe Days, when the deluded World was more eafy
to be impofed upon and cheated, than now, when
the World fcem to have their Eyes open, and re-
quire more Artifice to impofe upon them with.
In the Grecian and Roman Times, the Minds of
Men untaught, and without the Affiftance of Di-
vine Illuminations, were cafily impos'd upon, given
up to flrong Delufions, and to believe Lies 5 they
were bigotted by the Priefts, and by their own
Native Superftitions,* and were eafily deluded to
worihip any Gods, every bodies Gods, and even as
above. Unknown Gods, Happy Ignorance ! com-
pared to our Age, who by their Excefs of Know-
ledge and Senfe are arriv'd to a degree of Liberty,
from the Slavery and Bondage of all Religion^ that
efteem themfelves wife, in having found out a new
Happinefs for Mankind, freeing him from the
Chains of Doftrine and Principle, triumphing in a
State ©f compleat Atheifm and Irreligion, and in-
ftead of worfhipping many Gods, favc them-
felves the trouble of Idolatry, and worihip no God
at all.
It mufl: be confefs'd it has cofl: the Devil fomc
Pains, he has employed a world of Agents, and
beftow'd a great deal of Magick, to bring this to
pafsi nay, in my Opinion it feems that he never
was
d SYSTEM
was able to bring it to pafs, no, not by all his A-
gents, and whatever Pains and Expence he had been
at 5 but on the contrary, it came into his Manage-
ment by an unforefeen, and, even to \\vt Devil him-
felf, an unexpeded turn of his Affairs : For firft it
feem'd to be a new Difcovery in its very Nature,
and what Satan had no Notion of for many thou-
fands of Years \ and 1 do not find the mofl Learned
in thefe Matters are agreed yet about it, as whe-
ther it is immediately from Hell, a new Invention
of the Place, and fo introduc'd by the Devil as a
Favour and Advantage to Mankind j or whether
the Cafe is inverted, and as Man has in this Pra-
£tice out-finn'd the Devil^ fo he has been the DeviV%
Inftrudtor in it, and brought the thing to him, as
a Projeftor does a Scheme to the Perfon whom he
would have to manage it for him.
Indeed I muft do the Devil the Juftice to fay
I think it was the latter 5 that it never enter'd into
Satan's Head, as cunning as he is, to imagin any
thing fo grofs would go down with the World j
that tho' it is true he had begun early in fetting
up himfelf in the place of God, and had gotten
himfelf to beworfhip'd as a God, yet he never of-
fered to fugged to Mankind that there was no God
to be ador'd at allj no Supreme Being exifting, to
whom the Homage of the World was due, as to
its Creator and Preferver.
The Z)m/ knew the early Principles, and whence
they were infus'dj he knew that it was a Fire
kindled with the Life, and that could not be ex-
tinguifli'd but with the fame Life j that it was the
Work of Nature in Man, twilled with his Reafon,
and as he thought it impoflible to be erac'd and ob-
literated, fo he never attempted it. Not to beheve
a God! All Hell acknowledged the Mighty Truth,
and iht Devil himfelf could never imagine Mankind
pould be brought to queftion it,
Infernal
of M A G 1 C K, 137
Infernal Spirits nemfehes have deiffd^
But Devils nor Men the Being of God deny''d^\
^'Till wifer Ages found new ways to Sin,
And turned the Devil out, to let the Atheift in.
This Attainment is indeed a new Invention; but
like our late South-Sea Stock it is run up, and has
gain'd upon Mankind by a general Infatuation, and
may well be calPd Magick in its very Abftraft.
Nothing indeed but a kind of thinking rightly caWd
Free, and founded on Schemes of the moft re-
fin'd Infidelity, could aft upon fuch a Syftem as
this : What Magick muft there be to work up the
Mind of Man to a Poffibility of receiving fuch a
Principle, without Aftoniihment. No God ! what
a Shock it gives to the Soul, what a Blow to the
rcafoning Powers!
^he fecret 'Trepidation racks the Soul,
And while he fays No God, replies, thou Fool
!
It muft be a moft exquifitc Piece of Magical
Work, and Magick in it felf muft be a moft exqui-
lite Art, more rcfin'd and more fuperior in Wick-
ednefs, than the moft fuperlative Craft of Hell ever
arriv'd to, that ftiould raze out the Impreffions of a
God from the Soul of Man, where they were firft
riveted by the very fame Hand of Power that created
him 5 that could harden the Soul againft the Ter-
rors of his Maker, and blot out all the Reprefen-
tations of God, which the light of Nature and
of Reafon had printed upon his Mind.
It is beyond even the lofty Theme I am upon, and
as the Power of Magick cannot reach ir, fo it is alfo
beyond me to conceive of it, either what Power it
is wrought by, or from what ftrange corrupted
Fountain it flows, I confefs, I cannoc find in my
H .uc
x^Z A S Y S T E M
Heart to charge Satan with it, for I would not
flander the Devils nor do I find any Footfteps of
it in all the Devil's Story, or in all the Accounts of
his Management in the World : I leave it therefore
to the Learned Searchers into the Antiquity of thefe
Times, to find out, if it be poffible, its Original,
and tell us from whence it proceeds 5 promifing in
the mean time, that if they will but tell me where
it begun, I'll take care to give them an Account
where it will end, and that from very good Au*
thoricy.
The bringing Mankind to deny the Being of thcit
Maker, is a thing in it felf fo furprifing, fo fliock-
ing to Nature and to common Senfe, that it can-
not but raife our Curiofity, if poffible, to find out
its Original} I acknowledge my felf to have loft
a great deal of Labour in the Search, nor have all
the Methods I have hitherto taken been able to
give me any confiderable Light into the Matter. I
am loth I confefs to go to Satan himfelf to en-
quire about it, and fo deal with the Devil my felf,
while I am exploding the Pradice in others. Be-
fides, I am very doubtful, whether, if I did, he
could give me a true, or at leaft, a full Ac-
count of it 'y for I am under a full Perfwafion that
it is beyond him, that the Original was from the
Nature of Man, arrived by his own Improvement
to a height beyond his firft Inftru6bor. How the
Heart of Man became receptive of Wickednefs be-
yond the Power of Hell and Devils to infufe, is a
Point too curious to dwell upon here, we may meet
with it again in our way.
It may be true, and we have good rcafon to fay
we find it fo, that the Devil greedily embrac'd the
Propofal J and like the King of Spain^ when Colum*
hus brought him the firft News of a new World in
America offcr'd to his Government, and adding a
new Empire to his Dominiomj He whofe Ambi-
tion
of MAGIC K. 13^
cion had before grafp'd the whole World in Ima*
gination, yet greedily accepted the Dilcovcry, how
mean foever the Difcoverer was. Thus Sata»^
however out-witted and out-finn'd by the Dexte-
rity of Men, being Ihew'd a way of infulting his
Maker, (his darling Sin, and the height of his Am-
bition) which he never thought of before, cho*
perhaps fecretly difdaining to be out-fhot in his
own Bow, yet greedily embrac'd the Difcovery,
embarks in the Scheme*, and prompts the wicked
Contrivers to go on with it, with the utmoft Ap-
plication.
It may be ask'd of me, why I will Infift upon
this matrer in a Treatife of Magickj that this re-
lates to the Atheifts, not to Magicians, and that by
the fame Rule, all Enthufiafms, Herefies and myftc-
rious things in Religion, as well as in Science, may
be rated in the fame Clafs, and be caird by the
fame Name, and fo we fhall make a Magick of Re-
ligion at lafl.
But let a fhort Anfwer fuffice to this weak Obje-
ftion 5 All Errors in Religion are not equally Diabo-
lic, no, nor equally mifchievous j and as I have faid
above, that this feems to be of an Original deeper
than Hell, and out of the Reach of the Devil*, fb,
as far as it is a Crime which derives from the Man
as an Independent, andading the Devil by himfelf,!
think it muft have the Height of human Imagina-
tion and Invention in it, and fo may be call'd
Magical, as Magick is a Sicence or Art of doing
Superlative Evil.
If then it fliall beallow'd at leaft to be, as it really
is, an Extreme of human Wickednefs, it muft
have the EfTence of Magick in it, as Magick is
now con(ider*d > and therefore when I mention it in
the Title of this Chapter, I call it M a g i c k /« in
Practice and Perfection, What myfterious Power
muft it be, or as \is ufual to exprefs it, what Ma-
cs gick
^40 A S Y S r E M
gick muft there be in it, that Mankind can be
harden'd to a Pitch, capable of denying the Powes.
that made them, capable of arguing againlt the Re-
ality of that Being, which gave them Being ?
Nor does the Magick confift in the Fad, nei-
ther do I lay the Strefs of it there 5 or upon the Sin
againft Reafon, againft common Senfe, the Ingrati-
tude to their Maker, the open Infult of Heaven^
the Venture of provoking that Being whofe Power
it infults, and many other things of like Impor-
tance 5 thefe are things the People I am talking to^
and the Age I am talking in, can ridicule, and make
a Jeft of, and laugh at the mention of them > nor
ihall I dwell upon them, the Divines are equal to
this Task, and their proper Work it is. I leave it
with them.
But my Enquiry looks another way, and there
the Magick difcovers it felf j i;/z. by what flrang*
Influence, by what fecret Wonder in Nature it is
brought about, that Men who fay they have Souls^
that have a Capacity of reafoning and judging, and
whofe univerfal Paffion is to be vain of that Judg-*
xncnt, proud of their reafoning Powers, and of their
being capable of cenfuring the Defeds of o-
thers, that Thefe fliould ever be capable of being
thus impos'd upoui of receiving fuch a Notion, and
even of defiring it fliould be true. This is indeed
afl:onifliing I and here I confefs there mufl: be fome
Magick^ fome fecret prevailing Artifice, whether of
the Z)m/, or of what elfe, who can tell? Here
mufl: be fome Wheels and Springs, able, when fen
a going, to give a Progreflion to the whole Move-
ments and here mufl: be fome fecret Hand turning
thofe Wheels and Springs > be it Internal, Exter-
nal, or Infernal, I leave it as I find it> only I
think, as I thought before, my Judgment diftates
tome, that xhtD€vil\s not in the Plot, that he had
no hand in it, at leaft not at firft 3 what he may have
done
of M A G 1 C R. i4i
done fince I know nothing of yet, and I do
not fee how I fhall, at leait not till I have made
farther Inquiry.
In looking into this Abfurdity, which fo niany
Men of Parts, and who fcorn Abfurdities in othetr
things, are pleas'd to come into, I cannot but ob-
ferve how bufy they arej how many Arts and Tricks
truly Magical, do they find out, to reafon them-
fclves into the belief of that horrid Inconfiftency?
What fubterfuges do they fly to, what Arguments,
weak as they are, do they ufe; and how do they
cleave and cling about them, loading evei:y Word
that can be offer'd againft them with innumerable
Cavils, and with the moft apparent Sophiftry
!
One fort will have a God of one kind. One of an-
other. The Sceptick forms the Notion of a God iii
his Mind, but Itrips him of all his governing Pow-
er, diverts him of Knowledge and Wifdom. Holy-
nefs and Juftice, and all thofe glorious Attributes
for which he is worthy to be ador'd, and which
make him juftly the Object of our Homage, and
of our Affedion too.
The Deijl ftrips him of the very conftituting
Part of the Deity, and brings him down to a Level
with our Reafoning-, divefting him of all Govern-
ing, Protecting and Prefcrving Providence, and parti-
cularly of all Refentment againft the vileft Offences j
robbing him of the Power of Rewards and Puniih-
mcnts, and making him fo good, fo kind and graci-
ous, that they do not leave him room to be Juft,
or allow him any Refentment let the cafes be what
they will.
The Atheijl out-goes them all, and not able in-
deed to reconcile iheir Notions to common Senfe,
much lefs to reafon himfelf into their Opinions,
audacioufly fhuts his Eyes againft Reafon and Senfc
alfo, and tells you there is No God at all.
R Now
z4t jf S r S T E M
Now Magick puts an end to all this DiiHcultyj
for by confulting the dark Oracle, and entring a
little into the Secrets of the facred Science^ as they
wickedly tell you it is j they come out transform'd
into a new kind of Species, they tell you that they
are arriv'd to a compleat Knowledge of the Eternal
Mysteries 5 that God is nothing but the Sum of
human Defires, the Ecftafy of an exalted Spirit,
carry'd up into the Regions of eternal Calm and
Quiet, where the Soul is in Raptures of Joy and
Love. This they refolve by the Light of the re-
fin'd fublime Judgment to be the Perfection of Hap-
pinefs, and that is God. Amor Deus ^/Jupiter
quodcimqiie cupis.
They tell your farther, to defcend to the Perfona-
lityofaGoD, is talking wildly and immethodically,
and what is inconfiftent with Nature j that God is
a Quality, rather than a Beings that cannot be de-
ferib'd by Words, any more than it can be limited
by Space > that the fupreme EfTcnce is an in-
conceiveable Spirit of Light and Glory, and the
Soul receives an affimulating Light and Knowledge,
even by the Contemplation of it, by the Rays of a
communicable Effulgence > fo that having been
once illuminated, it continues enjoying a full Luflre
of eminent Glory for ever after.
This unintelligible Stuff is all Magick to me, and
I believe we may truly fay it is fo to us all j it is
fome of the Cant of the Trade, the Terms o£ Arc
in that Profeflion> and if this be the Difcovery
that Magick makes to the Mind, the Magicians will
have fmall caufe to boaft of their Improvement, £
prefume it ihall leave the Mind darker than it
finds it.
Now that this makes room for Atheifm^ or JDeifm^
or Polytheifm in the Mind, it is very evident 5 for,
next to the denying the divine Being, our enter-
taining falfe and corrupt Notions unworthy of
God,
of M A G 1 C k. 245
God, and of the reafoning human Soul, are fatal to
Religion.
Yer, what Impreflions have thefe things made
upon fome of the politeft Men in this Age, who
pretending to extirpate all the Notions of Religion
in their Souls, begin it with denying the Being of
the God that evidently made them j if you pretendi
to argue from Reafon, from Nature, from vifible
Things, to invifible, they reje6t it all, and call for
Demonltrationj they will have Heaven meafur'd
Mathematically and Geographically, as it were by
Scale and Compafs, and will judge of things invi-
fible according to Gunter-y they will allow of no-
thing but what they can fee with their Eyes, and feel
with their Hands, nor will they believe any fuch thing
as an Incomprehenfible. They will have all Heaven
refolv'd into Nature, all Religion into Reafon, and
all God into Philofophy. They are not thus diffi-
cult in other things j lefs Evidence will ferve them
in Crime, and they will make fhift with the weak-
eft Arguments in the World, to perfwade them-
felves into the Lawfulnefs and Juftice of the vileft
things that they allow the Pra6l:ice ofj fo partial
are they to their corrupt Inclinations, fo prejudiced
againft every thing that looks like a fuperior
and legal Reftraint to their Vices 5 is not this
juftly caird Magick? is it not with the utmoft
l?ropriety brought into a Syftem of Magick? is it
not really a Black Arty a Piece of Conjuration and
Witchcraft? is it not all Necromancy and the
Bevill
When Human Wit, in fearch of things Divine^
Would Reafon's Light "with Revelation join,
Expe6i to have Almighty Being made known
By the fame Light, hy which we know our own j
R z Creating
244 A S T S T E M
Creating by Created imuU explain.^
And Demonjlration of firfl Powers obtain j
How does the wild Philofophy confefs^
Its Weaknefs^ Ignorance^ and Emptynefs >
How do the Naturalifts^ and SOS OV Dreamy
When gravely they prefent the Sacred Scheme !
L<iydown the Draught, ir^w out the Magick Plan, 7
A felf- deriving Worlds a felf-creating Man-y S
And would a Nature void 0/ G o d explain. ^
Strange! how when Men are d?;?r^ of Crime pofTefsM,
^heir reafoning Facuhies are all fupprefs^d,
y/"^/ Religion they fome Hints deftre^
What Proofs, what Demonftrations they required
What Difficulties, ere they can fubmit^
What reafoning Scruples raife^ what turns of Wit,
To fiift the ftrong Conviction from the Mind-^
As //Religion all to Senfe confin'd,
Should every School Diftindion undergo^
And Rules of Faith, to Rules of Reafon bow.
But if to harden'd Crime they but encline^
In vain their reafoning Light pretends to fhine^
Ifhe wildeft Notions blindly cntertainj
Reafon and ISl zture Jlruggle: but all in vain.
Error, like Mother's Milk they fwallow down^
And by their Choice make every Crime their own.
*The deadly poifonous Draught drink freely /»,
And ask no reafoning Queftions when they Sin.
Take Crime by Lump howe'er abfurd and grofs,
And wed Miilakes, for better or for worfe.
So pedling Merchants, ^j their Stocks encreafe^
^urn Wholefalc-men, and only trade by th* Piece.
The
of M A G I C K, 14J
The bringing Mankind then into thefe Abfurdi-
ties,Ifay,is the height of'Magick; 'tis making them
capable of entertaining Atheiflic Notions^ ad on
Pretence of reafoning to receive Principles incon-
fiftent with Reafonj and becaufe things Divine are
in fome Particulars incomprehenfible, they run into
Notions neither comprehenfible or rational.
This is infinitely beyond all the Enthufiafm and
religious Frenzy in the World > 'tis brought about
by a PofTellion, a meer Rapture of the Imagina-
tion, which, in a word, forms in the Mind a new
Sgheme of Nature, new Notions of Beings of Life,
of Motion, of pad, prefent, and future -, nay, they
tell you as much 5 they tell you the common Con-
ceptions of things are only calculated to keep the
World blind and dark, that wrap'd up in their own
Ignorance, they may be eafy.
That if by a fupernatural Light, and by the
Study of facred Science, (that is to fay of Magick)
a few of the more enlightned part of Mankind have
attain'd to a clearer View of things, and that View
or Knowledge is communicated to the Souls of
thofe Few, by a fublime Influence 5 yet it is not fo
in the main, that the reft of the World underftand
nothing of it, and that Mankind remain blind and
ignorant, for want meerly of Application to, and
Study of a true Knowledge.
Thefe are the Things which they tell usof them-
felves, and which they talk in a kind of Cant par-
ticular to their own fortj reprefenting themfclves
as a kind of angclick People, that live above the
reft of the World, and that ad in a higher Sphere,
are endow'd with fuperior Light, that live beyond
the ordinary Rate of their Fellow-Creatures. What
Reality there is in thef^ things, what Attainments
they have, and how they have exercifed them, wc
fhall difcover more plainly, when we look a little
into the reft of it 5 when wc fee what angelick
R 3
things
146 A S Y S T E M
things they do, and in what manner they exercifc
their extraordinary Faculties j whether they appear
to be Illuminations from Heaven, or Delufions of
Hell 5 whether Emanations of the Realms of Light,
or Mifts and Vapours from the Regions of Dark-
nefsj in a word, whether they are Revelations and
Infpiration from the good Spirit above, or Enthu-
iiafms, Witchcrafr, and Sorcery, prompted and
affifted by the DeviL
How low-priz'd are all their Undertakings, how
mean and contemptible the Methods they take to
exert thefe noble and fuperior Faculties? How do
they pra6life upon Mankind by Conjurations, Spells
and Enchantments, by the moft pitiful and fcanda-
lous Delufions, pretending to divine and fuperior
Knowledge? One part of their Performances
confifts in juggling and flight of Hand, another
part in Fraud and Falfhood, another in the moft
ignorant Pretences j and the lafl, and as I may fay,
the only real Part, in a meer Necromancy and Deal-
ing with familiar Spirits.
In their Operations, were their Acquirements
Divine, was their Power from Heaven, were the
extraordinary Accomplifhmcnts which they boafl of,
truly and as they fay Seraphick and Heavenly, it
would appear in this, that like their heavenly Origi-
nal they would be exerted in doing good j they would
be fhewn in ads of Charity, of Beneficence to
Mankind, moving the World to reform, and
in a word, in bringing a Glory to Religion, and to
every laudable things whereas on the contrary we
fee, the Magicians of the latter Ages of the World
are, and always have been, employed in the extreme
of Wickednefs, in the blackefl Crimes, in protecting
and encouraging the worft and moft devilifh Pra-
ctices in the World, prompting confederated Mif-
chiefs, joyning in with Murder, Treafon, AfTaffina-
tion, and all manner of wicked things.
Thus
of M A G I C re t^T
Thus they tell us of iht^Magicians among the
Germans^ who fomented the Rebeiii t- of thofe En-
thufiafts call Jnabaptifisy which brougii: fo many
thoufands to their Grave by War and ircaron.
Some will tell us, that Count Wallefline^ the Great
General under the Emperor Ferdinand 11, and who
fought the great Battel of Lutzen^ againft the
King of Sweden^ us'd Magick, and that feveral of
the German Officers had Charms and Spells about
them, to render them invulnerable, {o that no
Sword would cut them, no Bullets wound them ;
but that they were deluded by the Magicians^ for
that many of them were found among the
Slain, with Charms hanging about their Necks;
and that IVallenfiim himfelf, notwithftanding his
Magick Art, was overthrown, and fhamefuUy bea*
ten by the Swedes in that great Battel, and was him-
felf afterwards afTaffinated and kilPd by an Irijk.
Captain in the Caftle of Egra in Bohemia^ though
furrounded with his Guards.
Many Inftances have been given, and Hi(lory is
full of them, where the Pretenders to this Art have
been abandoned to Ruin, either deluded by the
Daemon they trufted, or through the real Defici-
ency of the Art it felfj the latter of w^hich 1 infifl
upon has been chiefly the Reafon of itj for what
Operation could they expect from the help of Ma-
gick, to counter-a6t the Determinations of Provi-
dence? even Balaam himfelf could declare it thus;.
Sureiy there is no Enchantment againft] A c o b, neither
is there any Divination againft Israel. Numb,
xxlii. ij.
R 4 CHAP-
14B A S Y S T E M
C H A P. II.
The Scene changd% That as /Z^^ Devil aBed at
Firfi with his Black Art without the Ma-
gicians, fo the Magicians feem to carry it
an now without the Devil.
Hitherto I have made the Devil the AggrelTor in
all the Tranfaftions between himfelf and Man-
kind, but now we muft turn the Tables j for wbe-
ther it he^ that finding things go on currently, and
to his Mind, he only fits ftill and looks on, like an En-
gineer who has with infinite Art and great Fa-
tigue form'd a new Machine, then fets it at Work^
and feeing it perform according to Expe6tation, fits
down with Satisfaction, and lets it go round of it
felf: Or whether the Nature of Man, corrupt,
and prompt to all the foolifh and foul things the
Devil could put into his Head, does really run on
fader than the Devil can drive him: This as a
Doubt, which either Philofophy or Divinity have
not yet rcfolv'd, I muft leave it to Time and Expe-
rience to explain.
That thus it is, the Faft is plain 5 if the Black or
Diabolick j^rt was at firft a Machine of the Devil^
or let it be whofe it will, it works now of it fclf,
it performs to the Devil's Satisfaction 5 he has little
to do but to fit ftill, and fee the Wheels go round.
Nay, we may fay, the Scholars tqach the Ma-
iler, the Magician feems to guide, nay to command
the Devil, whofe Arc it is that he profefies, and
according to the Lines in my Title,
^be ob/equious Devil attends the Sorcerer''s Spell'^
^he Mill turns round the Horfe^ who firft turns.
round the Mill.
'Tis
of M A G I C K. 14^
'Tis worth obferving here, how remarkable the
Turn is that feems to be given to the working of
thefc Infernal Machines. At firft, the Devil had fomc
Difficulty with Mankind, was oblig'd to aft with
great Crafc and Subtilty, to make his Acquaintance
among them, as I have obferv'd at large j after
this he got the Afcendant to fuch a degree, that
he (as the Devil you know is apt to encroach where
he finds room for it) fet himfelf up for a Guide,
then a Governor, then a God j was firft follow'd
as a Dire6bor or Advifer, next obey'd and fubmitted
to as a Governor and Commander > and then (for
he never rejis) worfliipp'd as a God 5 which no doubt
was his firft, and of Neceffity muft be his higheft
Aim and Ambition.
But now, by we know not what Fate, Mankind
feems to have got the better of him j inftead of be-
ing waited upon in Form, and humbly expe6l:ed, as
in his firft Appearances > inftead oihtmgPaw-wa*dj
and great Aftemblies and Ceremonies us'd to ob-
tain an Audience of him, he comes now at every
old Woman's Call, and upon the moft trifling Oc-
cafion 5 inftead of being a Counfellor or an Advi-
fer, much lefs a Governor, now he's a meer Er-
rand Boy, runs and goes, will do any Drudgery,
work like a Horfe, fetch and carry like a Dog, dig
Ditches, carry Burthens, build Churches, or any
thing the Priefts and the Conjurers bid him doj
witnefs New-Market Heathy Stone-hengc^ Crowland
Abhey^ and a thoufand more things, which to be
fure the Devil did, becaufe we don't know how
clfe they could be done.
The Magicians were formerly the DeviVs Ser-
vants, but now they are his Mafters, and that to
fuch a degree, that 'tis but drawing a Circle,
cafting a few Figures, muttering a little Ara-
hick^ and up comes the Devil^ as readily as the
Prawer at a Tavern, with a d'ye call Sir? or like ^
Scot^
tjo A S r S T E M
Scots Caudey with Whafs your Honoufs Wull Sir ?
Nay, and as the learned in the Art fay, He muft come,
he carCt help it: Then as to tempting, he's quite out
of Doors. And I think, as the old Parliament did by
the Biihops, wc may e'en 'vote him ufekfs: In a
word, there's no manner of Occafion for him;
Mankind are as forward as he can wifh and defire of
them : Nay, fome cunning Men tell us we fin fa^
iter than the Devil can keep Pace with us ; as wit-
nefs the late witty and moderately wicked Lady —
^
who blefs'd her Stars, that the Devil never tempted
^ her to any thing, he underftood himfelf better, for
fhe knew well enough how to fin without him,
and that it would be lofing his time to talk to
her.
Likewife our happy Friend the much honoured
Sir// ,who values himfelf upon this particu-
kr Accoraplifliment, that he is able to SIN like a
Gentleman 'y nay he merits much from Satan, in that,
if he may be believed when he fpeaks the worft of
himfelf, he is alfo able to teach him (the Devil) to
be more refinedly wicked than he is : This
Sir H certainly gives the Devil very little
Trouble about him : and tho' I don't hear that the
old Gentleman is yet come to School to the Ba-
ronet; yet as the Baronet don't come to learn of
him, fo he (the Devil) need not come to reach him,
for that he is certainly as well accomplifiied in the
horrid Art as the Devil can make him.
The Age we live in, fruitful in Black Arts (whe-
ther in that which by way of Eminence we call
Black Art or no, is yet undetermined) affords us
many, I dare not fay bright. Examples of flaming
Wickednefs: 'Tis no new thing to hear the Right
Honourable my Lord tho* his Lordfhip is
known to be no Necromancer neither, rate himfcU
above the low, mechanick, poor-headed Rabble (as
he juftly calls them) who dare be Devils^ but don'c
ynidei-
of M A Q 1 C K. iji
underftand irj have Impudence enough, but siot 4
Genius to be truly flagrant: It is indeed a mcdera
Accompliflimcnr, and requires fome AdciitioAs qf
Art and Praftice to be able to llii lilir -i Lord. An4
tho' the great Man juft now mentioned may^ p^rT
haps, have reafon to exalt his own Acquirement:,
and to boaft of accumulated Crime > infomuch tbac
he would take it for an Affront, if the Devil fhoul4
pretend to prompt him 5 and that perhaps Saian,
who underftands good Breeding, has had more Man-
ners than to difturb his Lordfhip that way, feeing
him go on fo happily without himj yet it may be
acknowledged the watchful Seraph does find a little
Bufinefs fometimes among fomc of his Lordfhip's
Imitators, being at fome happy Pains to form them,
as the Moderns exprefs it, and make them as finifh'd
Devils of Quality as his Lordfhip 5 fo that we may
be fatisfied there is no great Fear we ihall want ^
Succeffion of human Infernals, no not among Men
of Rank.
Wonder not then that the Devil growing fo
much out of Bufinefs in the World, and Men grow-
ing, as Ifaid, fuch Proficients in the Science of the
Abominables, is in proportion humble as tohisCon-
du6t, and allows himfelf to be the obedient Servant
of every Star-gazer and Figure- cafter 5 that he comes
when he is called, goes when he is fent, nay fome-
times comes before he is called, and is the moft di-
ligent Z)^i;/7 imaginable. He would be very ungrate-
ful, it mud: be allowed, if he fhould nor, where
the Age is fo obliging to him 5 but befides that, he
finds It for his Intereft too, and he is too canning
not to pufh his Game where-ever it will go.
1 have heard ofa Magician, that, when the Devil
and he had made a Bargain that he fhould always
come when he was called, that is to fay, that when-
ever the Magician drew fuch and fuch Circles, and
made fuch and fuch Figuresj and then called him
by
iji A s r s r E M
by Name, that then he ftiould be fure to appear,
had a mind to try whether the Devil would be
honeft to him or no 5 and for making this Experi-
ment performed all his Exercifes, as I may call
them, by himfelf, and when he had no manner of
Occafion for it : However, the pun&ual Devil kept
his Word, and came to a Tittle, which the Necro-
mancer was mightily pleafed with. After this he
thought he might make a little Game with th^
DevU'y (o he calls him up again, and when he
came, the Spirit ask'd him, what was the Bufinefsj
he told him, he had no Bufinefs, only called him
for his Company, and to be better acquainted. Ve-
ry well, fays Satan, or Beelzebub^ or who you will
call him, for I don't remember that he knew
what his Name was 5 but it feems the patient Devil
anfwer'd him'Twas very well, and fhewed no man-
ner of Refentment 5 but after fome Converfation
left him again very quietly.
The foolifli Fellow, it feems, went on with the
Sport, making a Fool of xht Devil fo often and fo
long, 'till at Lift the Devil asking him, as before,
what he called him up for, and he telling him he
had no Bufinefs, but only that he liked his Con-
verfation, and called him up for the fake of his
Company : Very well, fays the Devil^ not at all
difpleafed, I am glad to hear itj then go along with
ine, and you fliall have enough of my Company, with-
out giving me the Trouble to come fo far.- and
with that the Conjurer felt himfelf lifted up in the
Air a little from the Ground, which made him cry
out horribly.
1 don't know what Argument, and Entrea-
ties he ufed, fo as to move Compaffion in him that
IS known not to be furnifhed with any thing of
that kind J but perhaps the Devil was not quite
ready for him, and knew that he might do him
more Service in the Station he was newly entred
into^
of M A G I C K. xif
into J fo it feems he did not take him quite away
that time: However it was, the Magician was ef-
fedually cured of trying Experiments, and never
olFer*d to make a Jeft of the Devil any more.
If I fhould tell you the Name of this bold Spark
of a Conjurer, and that he lived not far ofF of one
of our Temples 'y
you would perhaps wonder at the
Man, who indeed no body ever took to have Wic
enough to banter the Devil-, but I muft not bring
my Chara6l:ers too near homej befides, who knows
but the Devil may charge me with difcovering his
Secrets, and betraying Converfation j fo I fay no
more: If any body finds me our, and guefTes at the
Man by the Story, I fhall be only forry for the
Perfon, not for the Pidure.
As I was mufing of thefe things the other day,
and having a great many merry Stories of this
fort in my Budget, was confidering which was fie
to be told, and which not, it came into my Thoughts,
how travelling feme time (ince, from Daventry to-
wards Leicejler^ I met on the Road with a Coun-
tryman, of whom, bejng my felf a Stranger to the
Road, I asked the Way to Northampton 5 the Coun-
tryman told me, but with a Tone of Melancholy
and Dejedion, that he was going to Northampton^
and if I pieafed, and I would not over-ride him, he
would Ihow me the Way.
I was very glad of his ofFcr'd Service, and fo
fuiting my Pace to his, for he had but a very poor
Horfc, we went on together j I flill perceived the
Man to be penfive and fad, fpoke little, and never
but when I asked him fome Queftion which obliged
him to an Anfwer j often figh'd and lifted up his
Hands, and fometimes his Eyes, and minded his
Way fo little, that if his Horfe had not been more
fagacious than he, the Man would have run againll
a Poll, or into a Ditch j and two or three times he
did get into a Hole or fome other ill Place in the
Way,
154 ^ S T S T E M
Way, which he might have (hunn'd. Country-
man, fays I, what's the matter with you ? and fo
wc begun the ihort Difcourfe as follows
:
Countryman. Why, Sir?
jluthor. Why, you don't feem to mind your Feet,
or your Horfe's Feet j you may lead me to Nor-
thampton^ but I think you want fomebody to lead
you too, or elfe you will be in a Ditch.
Co. m. 1 care not much indeed, where I go, or
what becomes of me.
Au. So I think truly 5 why, if you were in fome
Roads that I know, you would have found a Stable
for your Horfe by this time.
Co.m. A Stable for my Horfe! what, in a Ditch,
I fuppofe ?
Au. Yes, I mean fo indeed j you'll be but an odd
Guide to me if you can't keep your fclf out of
Harms-way.
Co,m. As I faid before, I care not what becomes
of mej but however, Mafter, I'll guide you well
enough the Way to Northampton. And * then
* N. B. Here he ftopt and fetched a Sigh^ and I
thought Ifaiv Tears ft
and in his Eyes.
Au. And then ! what then ? what will you do
with your felf then ?
Co. m. Nay, I don't know, not 1 5 han > my felf, I
think, I don't know any thing I can do better.
Au. Pr'ythee, Friend, what's the matter? is it
fuch a Secret you dare not tell it ? I hope you
have not committed Murther.
Co m. No, no Murther j I have committed nei-
ther Murther nor Robbery 5 'tis no fuch great
matter neither.
Au. No great matter, and yet talk of hanging
youi? felf!
Co.m. It is a great matter to me, tho' it may be
it would be nothing in the Eyes of others.
Au.
of M A G 1 C K, ijjr
' Au. Well, Friend, if it be not too much a Se-
cret, let me ask you what it is 5 perhaps I may help
you.
Co.m. Ay, you or fifty more may ask me 5 but
I am a Fool if I tell you.
Au. Well, Countryman, if it be a Secret, pray
keep it to your felf j I don't defire to know any
of your Affairs.
Co.m. Nay, 'tis no great Secret neither j and yet
'tis a Secret too, or elfe I ihould not have gone ta
Northampton to-day.
Au. You're a merry Fellow, Countryman j what,
a Secret and no Secret ! that's a Secret indeed of
it felf. I don't underfland you.
Co.m. Why Mafter, if you muft have it, you
muft J the matter is this : 1 am a Cuckold, and my
Wife's a Whore, thafs no Secret -y But I can't tell
who does it for me 5 that's a Secret^ and that's what
I want to find out 3 fo there's tho Secret and no
Secret made out at once. An't I right now, Mafter ?
Au. Poor Man ! I think thou haft made it out
indeed 5 but why fo melancholy at it ? Sure you
would not hang your felf to find it out.^
Co.m. No, Mafter, not to find it out ; but I am
fit to hang my felf becaufe I can't find it out.
Would not any Man hang himfclf to be a Cuckold,
and can't find out the Man?
Au. And what if you did find out the Man ?
what would you be the better for that, unlefs you
could prevent it?
Co. m. O, I'd prevent it, I warrant ye 5 I would
not hang my felf, I affure you j but I'd hang the
Dog, I'd foon prevent their whoring.
Au. Well, but Countryman, that's wrong again,
that has the Gallows at the end of it j and that
Would be but poor Work for you to bring your
felf to the Devil^ becaufe your Wife's a Whore.'
Co.m.
z^6 A S Y S T E M
Co.m. Nay, I don't care where I go, rather than
be a Cuckold.
jiu. Is that fuch a frightful thing to you ! would
you commit Murther and be hang*d, rather than
be a Cuckold ?
Co.m. Why Mafter, what muft 1 do?
/1u. Do ! Be contented, if you can't help it^ as
many an honeft Man is forc'd to do.
Co.m. No, no, that won't do 5 I can't be coa-
tentedj 1 muft and will find it out.
^u. Well, but do you think hanging your fclf
will difcover it to you, or being hang'd for Mur-
ther about it> d'ye think you fhall know the Se-
cret when you're hang'd ?
Co.m. No doubt of it.
jiu. Well, but what if you did?
Co. m. Did ? why, d'ye think I could not get
Leave to come again and plague them ?
An. Who do you think could give you Leave ?
As for Heaven, 1 fuppofe you don't think much
about that, efpccially upon the foot you fpeak of,
I mean Murther 5 and as for the Devil^ I don't think
he would part with you, if he once had you faft;
fo I would not have you depend upon it too much.
Co.m. Well, but the Devil, it may be, would tell
me who 'tis.
Au. And what would you be the better if he
did?
Co.m. Why I would get him to come and plague
them a little, and that would do as well another
way 5 for I am refolved they {hall have no Reft.
Au. You are a terrible revengeful Fellow, that
you would be content to go to the Devil to be re-
venged of the Man that cuckolds you.
Co.m. And of the Whore tooj you fhould have
put that in, Mafter.
Au. I wonder indeed you han't been reveng'd of
her already, coniidering your furious Spirit: why
yon
of M A G I C K. 1^7
you arc a Madman, I fhould be afraid you fhould
murther your Wife.
Co.m. Ay Mafter, ihe's afraid o' that too 5 but
Ihe has been too cunning for me, for fhe is run for
it, and got out of my Clutches.
^u. She's in the right of it: can you blame her?
Co.m. Ay, but fhe has robb'd me too.
j^u. Robb'd you! ay, what could you expeft?
why if you would have murther'd her, fhe muft
have been a Fool to have flaid j and if fhe was
forced to fly, you could not think flic would go
away empty, could you ?
Co. m. Well, I will find thetn out, if they are a-
bove Ground.
Au, If you can, you mean 5 but pray are they
gone together?
Co. m. Nay, if I knew that, then I fliould know
who the Rogue is, which is one of the main thing*
I want to be informed of.
Au. And which you would be content to go to
the Devil to difcovcr ?
Co.m. If I was furc he or any one clfe could but
tell me, I didn't care where I went.
Au. Why, do you think if the Devil did know,
that he would tell you ?
Co.m. Why not, Mafl:cr?
Au. Why do you think the Devil is more your
Friend than theirs? do you think he cares how ma*
ny Whores and Cuckolds there are ?
Co. m. Nay that's true indeed, I did not think of
that} but however, I fliall be informed where I
am going, whether the Devil knows any thing of ,
it or no j and if he does
Au. What then, what if he does?
Co.m, Why then I believe I fliall get it out of
him.
Au. What, d'ye mean, out of the i)m/ .? why,
where arc you going ?
S Co.m.
IJ 8 A ST S T E M
Co. m. To one of his Acquaintance, Mafter, that
will tell me, I dare %, for a Piece of Money j and
tho' the Jade han't left mc a Shirt to my Back, I
have borrowed a little Money for this Work, and
I will have it out, if Money will do it.
Ai^. What do you mean. Countryman, are you
really going to the Devil?
'
Co. m. Why to tell you the Truth, I am going
to ai Cunning Man, Mafter, hard by Northamptony
that I am told will difcover it all to me.
^u Well, but do you call that going to the De-
vil ?
Co.m. Yes certainly, for he deals with the Devily,^
or elfe he could never do fuch ftrange things.
jiu. What ftrange things does he do ?
Co.m. Why he can caft a Figure, tell Folk?;
where their loft Cattle are, tell who robs them, and
oftentimes helps them to get their Goods again. -
j4u And fo you think he can tell who has cuck-
olded you, don't you?
Co.m. To be lure he can, Mafter j why ihould
no*^ he tell one thing as well as another?
^H. He'll take your Money to be fure, that's all
you can be fure of. I tell thee. Countryman, 'tis alt
a Cheat J they are only Rogues and Jugglers, they
know nothing of the matter.
Co m. Why that can't be, Mafter^ they fay he
will ihew me the Man's Face in a Looking-glafs.
^u, And what if he docs ihew you a Man's Face
and you don't know him, where are you then ?
Cv m Nay, that's none of his Fault.
Ju. 'Twill be his Fault to put a Cheat upon you,
ana xhew you a Face you don't know, pretending
that's the Man, and you ne'er the wifer.
Co.m. Well, bur he will make me dream of the
Man, and lee him in my Sleep.
^?/. Verv well, and fo if you chance to dream of an
honeft Man, you will go and murther him will you,
for making you a Cuckold ? I tell you your Cunnirig
4 Man
of M A G I C K. ijj^
Man is a Cheats he no more deals with the Devil
than you do.
Co.m. Well then, I'll go to Oundle^ there's a
Man that deals in Magick, and he'll raife the De^
'vil for me if I defire it, and I fhall fee him and talk
with him my felf.
j^u. And you believe it, do you ?
Co. m. I fliall believe it fure when I fee it, flian't
I? why d'ye think I won't believe my own Eyes?
Au, Why, do you know the Devil when you fee
him? how will you be fure 'tis the Devil?
Co. m. I fhall know him by his cloven Foot,
fhan't I, Mafter ?
Ju. I believe not j did you ever fee the Devil m
your Life ?
Co.m. No not I, but I have heard of a great ma-
ny that have 5 why is that fuch a ftrange thing,
Mafter?
^u. 'Tis fuch a ftrange thing, that I don't believe
one Word of it.
Co.m. What, don't you believe that a Magician
can raife the Devil?
Au. I do not know. Countryman, but the Devil
may be called up upon extraordinary Occafionsj
but hardly by your threc-half-penny Conjurer, nor
upon fuch a Bufinefs as yours is.
Co. m. Why, won't the Devil come when he is
called? why, the Magician 'xtOundk can make him
come, they fay, whether he will or no : if he does
but draw a Circle and turn round five times in it,
the Devil can't help appearing, no more than if we
faid the Lord's Prayer backward.
Au. Why, will he come if we (ay our Prayers
twickward ?
Co.m, Ay, certainly, Mafter $ Why, you don't
•doubt that, d'ye ?
Au. Nay, 1 don't fay I doubt it} but did you ever
try it your felf ?
S z Co.m.
^6o A S Y S T E M
Co. m. No, T never try'd it, that's true ; but I
have heard an old Woman at Dav'ntry ufed to
raife the Devil that Way very often.
jIu. I wonder you fhould not try it, when you
have itich Occafion to talk with him.
Co.m. Ay, I want to talk with him, that I do,
but I dare not talk with him by my felf neither.
ylu. Why not } you know well enough what to
fay to him.
Co.m. Ay, that's true, but I don't know how to
manage him as they doj they are ufed to himj 'tis
their Trade to deal between him and us.
Ju. But it would fave you the Charges, and I
fancy the Devil and you are no Strangers.
Co. m. What d'ye mean, Mailer? I never faw hira
in my Life.
Au. Well, if you ha'nt been in his Company,
I dare fay he has heen in yours. ^
Co.m. Why fo, Mafter?
Au. You would never talk of hanging your felf,
and of being hanged for Murther, fo familiarly as
you do, if he had not been at work with you.
Co.m. Why, I am half mad,- Sir > What would
you have me do? I mud be revenged on 'em.
Au, Ay, I told you the Devil had been with you,
'tis he makes you talk of Revenge ; that's all the
Devil^ and ends in Damnation j for if he is a Spirit
which waits to devour, and that does all he can to
deftroy us, we may very well think all evil Motions
come from him.
Co.m. I don't underftand thofe things, Mafter,
not I J but I am fure the Devil has had nothing to
do with me, either in that or anything elfe.
Au. I tell thee, honeft Friend, thou doeft not
know when theD^w/ is working in thee, and when
not 5 all fuch horrid Thoughts as thou haft had
about Self-murther, Revenge, and doing Mifchief to
others, muft be from the DeviL
Co.m.
of M A Q I C K. rCi
Co.m. Well, Mafter, let's talk no more of that,
my Head runs another way at prefent.
^u. Why, will you really go to enquire of the
Devil about who has made you a Cuckold ?
Co.m. No, not to the Devily I only go to the
! Cunning Man.
jIh, Yes, and to the Conjur^^r at Oundle^ you fay,
and he can raife the Devil^ it fecms.
Co.m. Well then, he deals with the Bevil^ not I.
Au, And do you think, as I faid before, the Be-
ml would befriend you fo far as to hinder your
Wife's Wickednefs? do think he would not rather
make her wickeder than fheis ?
Co.m. Nay, that's true; but however^ Pd try
what I can do; I am refolv'd I'll go to him.
When I found he was fo pofitive, I bad him e'en
go and try the Experiment; but depend upon it,
faid I, the Devil won't betray the Secret to youj
he is too much o' t'other Side.
By this time we were come to ^een\'Crors^ a
little of this fide Northampton^ j and feei.ng the
Town from the Hill, I offer'd to go on fafter,
feeing I knew the Way was before me : but he be-
fpoke me to keep him Company; for. Mailer, fays
he, if you lye in the Town all Night, Til cer-
tainly come and tell you what the cunning Man
fays to me.
I was not unwilling to hear the Refult of the
Story, but was particularly curious to hear what
the Magician at Oundle could do; fo I refolvcd to
flay at Northampton that Night, and we kept Com-
pany together to the Town. When we came to
the Town, I put up at the George Inn^ and thought
he would have gone in with me; but when wecimc
to the Door, he bad me Good-by for the prefent,
for the Cunning Man, he faid, liv'd two Mies ouc
of the Town, and he would talk with him, and
come to me at Night.
S J I
%6i A s r s r E M^
I went into my Inn and flaid there all Night,
but heard no more of my poor Cuckold the Coun-
tryman all that Evening. The next Morning I was
indifpofed, which made mc flay longer at the Inn
than I intended, and indeed was obliged to ftay there
all that Day and Night too, but ftill I had no
News of my Countryman, which made me a little
chagreen 5 but at laft he came back again, and comes
to me, but not 'till the next Day about eleven
a-Clock.
Then as I had been waiting before very patient-
ly, I began, and fpoke a little angrily > What's the
Bufinefs now, fays I, what's the matter with you,
that you dodge about fo ?
O Sir, fays he, let me come in, and V\\ tell you
the flrangeft things
Well, come in then, fays /, and fit downj I
thought you had been loft, or had forgot your
Promife. So he came in, and we begun another
fhort Difcourfe, as follows :
Co.m, O Mafter, I have had a hard Night's Work
on't.
Au, What do you mean of a Night's Work,
where have you been?
Co. m. Why firft, Mafter, I went to my cunning
Man, and gave him a Shilling, which it feems he
takes before he will fpeak a Word.
Ju. Ay, ay, they are in the right, 'tis the only
thing I can call them cunning Men for.
Co.m. Why are they cunning in that?
j^u, Becaufe they know if they did not take the
Money before- hand, no body would give it them
afterwards, becaufe they can tell nothing, nor fay
any thing to the purpofe.
Co. m. Well, I gave him the Shilling i he de-
mande4 Haifa Crown, but I told him I was a poor
Man, and fo he condefccnded in Charity to take a
Shilling.
of M A G I C K, itfj
i Au. That is to fay, he faw there was no more
to be had, fo he took what he could get j and fo
they all do. But come, what did he do for it, what"
did he rell thee?
Co.m. O he examined me very ftrift^y, I aflure
you.
jiu. Examine you, about what ?
Co. m. Why, how long my Wife had been gone^
what fhe carried with her,, what a-Clock flie
went at, what ihe faid at parting j and took every
thing down in Figures.
Au. Very well, this was all Grimace, t9 put a
Countenance upon things.
Co. m. Then he bid me hold my Tongue, and he
fell to making Figures and mutc'ring to hiDifeUji
and on a fudden he flarts up j Well, fays he, 1 find
your Wife is gone away, and that you b^at her
very feverely before ihe went. Now, T c Uid
not deny that Part, Mafter, becaufe I knew it was
true 5 but how Ihould he know that, Mafter, if he
wan't a cunning Man?
Au, Well enough : when he had examined you fo
ftri6tly before in all the Particulars, he might eafi-
ly guefs you had ufed her hardly, by the Rai^e you
were in^ when you came to him> and when y ii
talk*d of hanging your felf and murthcring her, he
might eafily judge that you had talked ihe fiUK ta
her, which had frighted the Woman, and ihe vas
runaway for fear of you \ there's no great cunnino^
in all that. I was a going to fay fj to you my iclf
once, for I really thought of it before.
Co,m. Why then you are as much a cuniung
Man as he.
Au. Well, what elfe did he fay to you ?
Co,m. Nothing to the purpofe, only to vex me
and make me mad.
Au. Nay that he could not do, for I verily think
you were mad before > but what was ic ? come, tell ms.
S 4 Co.m.
t64 A S r S T E M
Co.m. Why, Mafter, he fell to fcribbling and
fcrawling again upon a Piece of Paper, and then he
rifes and walks up and down, and round and
round, as I thought, he made Circles three or four
times, and talk'd to himfelf all the while.
Ju. Well, and that frighted you, I warrant you j
did not you think he was going to raife the De-
vil ?
Co, m. Why you know every thing, Maftcr, afore-
hand, I think you are as cunning as he 5 I was fo
frighted I trembled like an Afpen Leaf, Mafter.
^«. Why, didn't you fay you wanted to fee
the Devilj to tell you all ?
Co,m. Ay, that's true, Maftcr, but I was deadly
fraid for all that, efpecially when I thought he was
juft a coming.
j^u. Well, and how then, what came of it ?
Co,m. Came on it! why, Mafter, the Man's a
Rogue, a meer Cheat j he had got my Money, and
when all come to all, he told me nothing, at leaft
nothing that fignified any thing to me.
jfu. Well, but what was it? for I find he told
you fomething, tho' you don't hke it : did he bid
you go home and be quiet and eafie, and not trou-
ble your felf about it ?
Co.m, Hang him, Rogue 5 when he had made all
his Turns, and his Circles, and faid all his Witch-
craft over to himfelf, he fits down and calls me to
him, and very civilly bad me fit down, and begun
his ugly Story.
^tf, I find he has not pleafed ye : I really fancy
the Man has given thee good honeft Advice, and
bid thee go home and mind thy Bufinefs, and be
eafie 5 did not 1 fay the fame to thee ?
Co,m. ril tell it you all, Mafter, if you'll have
Patience 5 he's a Rogue 5 a Rogue, Mafter. I told
you he would have my Money beforehand, and fo
he had, or he fhould never ha' hgd a Farthing;
gnd he kuew that well enough. Ju,
of M A G I C K. 2<^r
Au, No, no, he knew Folks never pay when they
don'c like the Story > but go on, what did he
fay?
Co.m, Why, as grave as a Judge, he takes me by
the Hand, felt my Pulfe, holding his conjuring Paper
in t'other Hand, all the while > Heark thee. Friend,
fays he, I have calculated the Times and the Senfons,
I have brought your Names in a dired Oppofition,
I have done every thing to fatisfy you, that can
be done, and all my Numbers and Accounts agree,
and this is the Sura of your Cafej You are a poor,
honcft, fretful, paiffionate Fellow that ftands here
on one Side J and then he {hewed me his damned
Figures, and Crofles and Circles, on one fide 3 and
here's your poor Wife a t'other fide, fays he 5 and
then he fhewed me his Figures again j fhe has anger'd
you, and fcolded at you for your ill Ufage of her,
and you have fallen upon her and beaten her un-
mercifully, and threaten'd to murther her, and fhe is
run away for fear of it 5 and now you call her
Whore, and come to me to tell you who has made
a Cuckold of you.
Au. And did the Man fay all this to you. Friend >
Co.m. Yes, Mafter, and a great deal more, like
a Rogue as he is. He a cunning Man ! he's a Block-
head J why, I knew all that before.
Au. Ay, and he might eafily gather it from your
Difcourfe.
Co.m. No, Matter, that he could not, I'm fure.
Au. Well then, you'll make him a cunning Man
indeed, at the fiime time that you call him a Block-
head and a Fool. I tell you I gather'd as much be-
fore from you, and you can't help itj you are too
full of your own Story. But go on, what did he
fay then ?
Co.m, Why, then he fell to preaching, and giv-
ing me Advice > Go home, Friend, fays the Toad,
jmd be eafie and (juiet, and tell your Friends you are
forry
66 A S T S r E M
forry you have been in fuch a Heat, and that you
hope your Wife will come home again, for you
won't do her any Hurt; and then your Neigh-
bours will cell her, and fhe'll come lovingly again
to you y For 1 lell thee Friend, fays he, thou art
in the Wrong, the poor Woman is no Whore, I
can Ihow ic you in black and white here ; and then
he pointed to his curfed Conjuring Papery fhe's a
very honeft Woman, thou haft only a Whymfie
come in thy Head becaufe fhe is gone, I tell thee
thou art no Cuckold, go home and be quiet.
ylu. And did he fay all this to thee ?
Co. m. Yes, to be fure Mafter, and a great deal
more fuch Stuffj what fliould I be in fuch a Paf-
fion with him for elfe?
jiu, Upnn my Word, Friend, whether he be a
cunning Man or no, that I have nothing to fay
to 5 he may make thee believe fo, that's for his Ad-
vantage > but o'my Confcience 1 think he's a wife
Man, and an honeft Man, and I would advife thee
to follow his Counfelj for I do tell thee, I firmly
believe 'tis thy Cafe to a Tittle, and 1 tell thee thy
whole Difcourfe difcovcr'd it 5 he might have faid
it all without his Figures and Circles 5 that was
done to amufe you, but 'tis plain from all you have
faid, that's thy very Cafe.
Co. m. Ay, ay, Mafter, 'tis no matter for that,
let him be as cunning and as wife as he will, I
have had anotherguefs Account of it, and better
Advice fincej for I have been at Oundle^ Mafter,
fince that, and there I have met with a cunning
Man indeed.
Au. Why, have you really been confulting with
the Devil then?
Co. m. I believe I have indeed.
Au. Nay, then 'tis like you have had good Ad-
vice indeed 5 mayn't a body know what you have
met with there too?
Co, m.
of M A G I C K. 267
Co. tn. Truly Mafter, I don't know whether I
can tell it you or no, f©r I have been frighted out
of my Wits. I'm fure if my Hat had been on, my
Hair would have lifted it off, tho' 1 had had a good
Basket of Apples upon my Head.
j4u. Come Ice me hear it however, as well as you
can.
Co. m. Why Mafter, when I came to the Man's
Houfe, ('tis within two Mileof 0;^W/^ I think, or
thereabout,) it was almoft dark, and that made it
'
the worfc. I knock'd at the Door, and out came a
tall black frightful old Man. 1 begun to be fright-
ed at the very firft Sight, for I thought it had been
the Devil was come before I a^k'd for him.
Au. And are you fure it was not.^^
Co. m. Yes, I think he was not the Devils for
he fpoke very civilly to mej and when I ask'd him
if he was the cunning Man, he fmil'd, and had me
come in ; fo he carry'd me into a large Room,
which had but one dim burning Candle in it, and
I trembl'd every Inch of me, for I thought the
Candle burnt blue as foon as I look'd at it.
Au, Very well, fo you thought you were come
into good Company, did not you.'*
Co. m. Indeed, I widi'd my felf out of the Houfe
again, that I did> but the old Gentleman whiftkd,
and in came a young Fellow thai look'd like a Ser-
vant, and he bad him go fnuff the Candle, and
bring in another, and that comforted me a little j
then he fat him down in a great Elbow-Chair,
with a little Table before it, and upon the Table
was a great many Books, and a Pen and Ink, and
Paper. Come Friend, fays he, let me know thy
Bufinefs, for tho' I am none of thofc ignorant Fel-
lows you call Cunning Men, yet perhaps I may-
tell you what you want to know, upon a better
foot,
2<J8 A S Y S T E M
Au, Well, he begun pretty high : what could he
pretend to ?
Co. m, I reply'd. Sir, I was told you was one
that dealt in fecret things, that underftood the Black
jirt^ and thofe we call Cunning Men 5 if 1 am mi-
flaken, I am very forry : and fo made as if I would
go away again, but he flopp'd me, and faid. Look
you Friend, I am none of thofe Fellows you call
cunning Men, I look upon them to be all Cheats 5
my Pradice is all Divine, of a fuperior Nature, I
Itudy things in a higher Sphere, I deal in the My-
ileries of an invifible World, and converfe with the
World of Spirits unembody'd, who are beneficent
and kind to us, who are Spirits embody'd, and not
only converfe with us below, but are helpful and
ferviceable to us on all Occafions. I can't remem-
ber all his hard Words, Matter, but he faid a deal
more to that purpofe.
Au. Well, did not he ask for your Money be-
fore hand too, as t'other did ?
Co. m. No indeed, but when he bad me tell him
my Cafe, I put my Hand in my Pocket, and puH'd
out two half Crowns, and went to offer him the
Money, for I found he was not an ordinary Fel-
low, and fo I thought he would not be very low-
priz'd.
Au. But he took the Money, I fuppofe?
Co. m. No, he faid he did not do thefe things
for Money, as he found I believ'd he did j but he
faid, you may put what you pleafe in there, poin-
ting to a Box that flood upon the Table j I ihall
difpofc of it charitably, and to better Ufes, it may be,
than you would do your felf ; fo I put the Money
into his Box, which had a flit like a Tradefman's
Till.
4
Au. Very well, this look'd great indeed.
Co. m. Then he bad me tell him my Cafe 5 for,
fays he, I perceive you are a Man of a troubled
Countenance,
of M A G I C K. 2(5p
Countenance, your Mind is opprefs'd, the Paflions
of your Soul have been in a Perturbation, your
Spirits are fluttering flill, and in a Storm, tho*
fomething abated of what they have been 5 pray be
very free, and tell me your whole Cafe, as fully and
plainly as you can.
y^u. Well, I alTure you, he fpoke in flate with a
great deal of Majefty.
Co. m. Yes, and yet he fpoke very courteoufly
too, and I began to like him mightily j fo I began,
and told him my Cafe at large, jufl as I did you,
Mafter.
jIu, That is to fay, that you wanted to be re-
veng'd of your Wife, and to find out the Man that
had cuckolded you, and the like j fo you expefted
prefently he ihould tell you who it was.
Co, rn. Yes, fo I did 5 but he brought me to un-
derftand things better, and I found he was in Ear-
neft, and that he was not to be cheated. He ex-
amined me too as t'other had done, and ask'd me
abundance of Queftions.
Au, And, I doubt not, gathered your Cafe in e-
very Part of it from the weak inconfiftent Account
you gave him of it.
Co. m. I don't know that j but after he had done
asking me all his Queftions, he took his Pen and Ink
too, and wrote down a great many things upon his
Paper, and made Lines with a fliort brafs Rule and
a Pencil, and then took out a pair of Compafles,
and drew fevcral Figures and Marks, but I under-
ilood nothing of them, neither could I fee them
diftindly by the Candle Light j then he ask'd me
my Chriftian Name, which I told him was Edward^
and he fet it down in great Letters, but fuch as
tho' I can read Mafter, I am fure that I never faw
fuch Before. Then he ask'd my Wife's Chriftian
Name too, which I told him was Abigail and he
fet that down in the fame kind of Letters as before
5
then
270 A S Y S T E M
then he ask'd my Age, and my Wife's Age, and
the Age of my two Children > of all which I gave
him a full Account.
An. 1 fuppofe you had told him that you had
twoChiidren> he did not conjure out that, did he^
Co. m. Yes, he had ask'd me that before, and I
told himj fo when he had done all, and I believe
we had ralk'd together above an Hour, he rofe up,
and offered to go away, and I rofe up too, but he
Jaui his Ha .d upon my Arm, Do you fit Hill, fays
he, and I'll come to you again 5 at which I was a
little frjghtf'd to be left alone, and he perceiv'd it.
Don't be afraid, fays he, there fhall nothing hurt
you, nor fpeak to you j and if you hear any Noife
don't you ftir, but fit Itill here. So he took up one
of the Candles, and went into another Room by a
little Door hke a Clolet-Door, and when he {hut
the Door after him, I perceiv'd a little Window of
one broad Square of Glafs only, that look'd into
the Room which he was gone into.
Ju. 1 warrant ye, you wanted to peep, did not ye?
Co. m. Yes, I did, but I durft not ftir for my
Life, becaufe he had charg'd me I fhould not.
Au. Well, but you was to hear fomc Noifcs, was
you not ?
Co. m. But I did not, except once that I heard a
Noife like the drawing of a Chair upon the Floor,
vhich being nothing but what was ordinary, did
not difturb me.
Au. WelL how long did he ftay?
Co. m. About half an Hour, and came in again,
lookmg very well pleas'd, and ask'd me how 1 did,
and then fir down as before. Well, fays he, I have
been confulting on your Cafe, and I find things not
fo threatning to you as I expededj perhaps you
may not be in fo ill a Cafe as you imagine > how-
ever, I am order'd to tell you, that fomc Days af-
ter your return, your Wife ihall come to a Houfe
near
of M A G I C K. 271
near you, and fend to know if you will receive her
again kindly 3 if the Perfon ihe fends is a Woman,
you may conclude your Wife has abus'd you j but
if ihe fends a Man, then ihe is innocent, and you
are miftaken.
Au. This was point-blank, I aflure you.
Co. m. I did not like it however, and that he
might fee well enough 5 for I can't allow any if 's
or and's. Tell me of being miilaken! faid I to him,
I can't be miftaken. Well, fays he, I'll go again
and confult farther about you 5 and feeing me be-
gin to get up too, he turns again 5 You are not
*
afraid, fays he, are you ? No, not at all, faid I ?
Well, nor you won't be afraid, will you, if you fee
nothing frightful? No, not at all, faid I again. But
I ly'd, Mafter, for I was almoil frighted to Death,
when he fpoke of ray feeing foraethingj but as I
had faid No twice, and fpoke it pretty heartily too,
he faid. Well then, come along with me into the
next Room.
jiu. I doubt you were afraid then indeed.
Co. m. Ay, fo I was heartily, and he perceiv'd it
too again j Well, fays he, if you are afraid to go
into my Room of Pradtice, I'll ftay here with you 5
only, whatever you fee or hear fit you itill, and
neither fpeak or ftir out of your Chair.
Au. Well, did you obferve his Direction ?
Co. m. No, indeed Mafter, my Heart fail'd me;
I durft neither go nor ftay, but I'll tell you what I
did when he was gone into the next Room, I went
to the Window and peep'd.
Au. And what did you fee? 'tis odd peeping at
the Devil^ I muft tell you.
Co, m. 1 faw my old Gentleman in a great Chair,
and two more in Chairs at fome Diftance, and three
great Candles, and a great Sheet of white Paper
upon the Floor between them j every one of them had
a long white Wand in their Hands, the lower end
of which touch'd the Sheet of Paper. Au,
172 A S r S T E M
Ju. And were the Candles upon the Ground
too?
Co. m. Yes, all of them.
Au, There was a great deal of Ceremony about
you, I alTure you,
Co. m. I think fo too, but it is not done yetj
immediately I heard the little Door ftir, as if it was
opening, and away I skipp'd as foftly as I could
tread, and got into my Chair again, and fat there
as gravely as if I had never ftirr'd out of it. I was
no Iboner fet but the Door open'd indeed, and the
old Gentleman came out as before, and turning to
nie, faid. Sit (till, don't ye ftirj and at that Word,
the other two that were with him in the Room
walk'd out after him, one after another crofs
the Room, as if to go out at the other Door where
I came in 5 but at the farther end of the Room
they ftop'd, and turn'd their Faces to one another
and talk*d j but it was fome Devil's Language of
their own, for I could underftand nothing of it.
Au, And now I fuppofe you were frighted in
earnefl ?
Co. m. Ay, fo I was 5 but it was worfe yet, for
they had not flood long together, but the great
Elbow-Chair which the old Gentleman fat in at
the little Table juft by me began to ftir of it felf j
at which the old Gentleman knowing I ihould be
afraid, came to me and faid. Sit ftill, don't you ftir,
all will be well, you (hall have no harm \ at which
he gave his Chair a kick with his Foot, and faid.
Go, with fome other Words, and of other Language,
and away went the obedient Chair Aiding two of
its Legs on the Ground, and the other two ofF, as
if fome body had dragg'd it by that Part.
Au. And fo no doubt they did, tho' you could
not fee it.
Co. m. Asfoon as the Chair was dragg'd or mov'd
to the end of the Room, where the three, I know
not
of M A G 1 C K. Z73
not what ro call 'em, were, two other Chairs did
the like from the other fide of che Room, and fo
they all fat down, and talk'd together a good while 5
at laft the. Door at that end of the Room opened
too, and they all were gone in a Moment without
rifing out of their Chairs > for I am fure they did
not rife to go out, as other Folks do.
Au, What did you think of your felf, when you
faw (he Chair flir fo near youi
Co m Thin!:! niy, I did not think j I was dead,
to be lure I was dead, with the Fright, and expcded
I lliould be carry'd away, Chair and all, the next
Moment. Then it was, I fay, that my Hair w^nild
have lifted off my Hat, if it had been on I am fure
it would.
Ah. Well, but when they were all gone, you
came to your felf again, I fuppofe?
Co. m. To tell you the truth Mafter, I am not
come to my felf yet.
Au. But go on, let me know how it ended.
Co. m. Why, after a little while my old Man
came in again, call'd his Man to let the Chairs to
rights, and chcn fat him doji^n at the Table, fpoke
chearfully to me, and ask'd me if I would drink,
which I refus'd, tho' I was a-dry indeed. I believe
the fright had made me dryj but as I never had
been us'd to drink with the Devil^ I didn't know
what to think of it, fo I let it alone.
Au. But you might e'en have ventured, for the
old Necromancer was but a Man, whatever Cor-
refpondence he might have, and his Ale would not
have hurt you. But what elfe did he fay about your
Bufmefs.?^
'
Co. m. Why, he told me the invifible Agents
were favourable in their Anfwersj that there ap-
peared nothing but wellj that he was alTur'd
by the Afpeds which any way concerned mej
that I was more conccrn'd about this Matter, than
T there
174 A S T S T E M
there was reafon for j that I fhould go home and '
wait, till by the Signals he had given me, I might
^udge for my felf, and till I heard from my Wife as
before ; and that if I could make any plain Difco*
very, that there was real Guilt, I fliould come to
him again, and he would endeavour to point out
the Man. But if I could not, I fhould reft fatif-
fy'd that I had been wrong inform'd of things in
my Family, and might make my felf eafy.
Ju. This is an odd Story, why this Man is only
a Cheat like all the reft 5 he bids you go home, and
if you can find out any real Guilt, then come to
him and he will tell you what to doj that is to fay,
he knows nothing: Is this your Necromancer!
pray where does he dwell?
Co. m. Nay, Mafter, the Man has done mc no
wrong. I was directed to the Houfe, but I can't
find it again, if I was to be hang'd for miiling it j
however I won't betray him neither, let him be
what he will.
All. Well, but it feems you are not fully fatisfy'd
yet, becaufe he docs not confirm your Notion that
your Wife is a Whore 3 I fancy you have a Mind it
fliould be fo.
Co. m. I don't care what ftic is, fo I could but
find it out.
Ju. But you fee, neither the honeft Man at
Northampton^ nor the Devil at Oundle^ would give
you any reafon to think fo. I would have you go
home, as the firft Man advis'd you, and be quiet. I
verily believe there's nothing at all in it, but you
have been a cruel Husband, have us'd your Wife
like a Dog, and frighted her with worfe, and fhe
is fled from you, as a poor naked defencelefs Sheep
would from a Lion or a Wolf.
Co. m. And you would have me go home and fub-
mit to my Wife ? no, I'll hang my felf firft.
of M A G 1 C K. i7j
Au. I don't fayfubmit to your Wifej the' if you
have wrong'd your Wife^ as I doubt you have, I
fee no reafon why you fhould not make a Wife Sa-
tisfadion for the Injury done her Charafter, as well
as you would to a Man that was able to cudgel you
into it. But I fay go home, and mend your Wife's
Husband, and that will in all probability mend your
Wife, and you may live comfortably again to-
gether.
Co, m. I can't promife, Mafter, to take any of their
Advices, or your's either.
This Story is not told fo much to give an Ac-
count of the Man, who was nothing as I could
underftand by it all, but a bafe paffionate Fellow to
an honefl: Woman his Wifej but 'tis a kind of a
Hiftory of modern Magick, or of the Craft which
is at this time in Pradice in the World. Nor is \t
a lingular Example, for we have many more Peo-
ple among us, who are Pretenders to the fac^ed
Sciences, as they call them 9 who yet do not level their
Knowledge of them to fuch mean Ufes, as to go
Mountebanking with them, to get a Crown or two
for petty Difcoveries, and fet up for what they call
cunning Menj which is indeed the lowcfl Step of
this kind that a Spirit of the invifible World could
well be fuppos'd to take.
It is true, 'tis fomething hard to defcribe what
this thing we call Magick is, and how it is to be
underftood now 5 what it was formerly we know
fomething of, and yet even then no great things were
perform'd by it 5 fomething they did, whether by
the thing it felf as an Art, or by the Devil being
prefent to aflift them, we kno>v notj that which
would be call'd wonderful is, that they did then, as
they pretend to do ftill, fcveral things which the Devil
really has no Power to doj and particularly that of
foretelling things to come, which we do not, ge-
nerally fpeaking, grant the Devil to have in his
T 2. Power i
^J6 A S Y S T E M
Power 5 he can indeed make better Judgment
of things than we can, but that the Knowledge of
Futurity is given him, I deny.
For the Augurs and Southfayers, they did flrange
things formerly > by whofe Power, is not in my
reach, nor any ones elfe to determine: For Exam-
ple j In the latter end of the "Lx^to^ Auguftus defavj
while the Ceremonies were performing in the Cam-
pus Martins^ the Emperor and a vaft Concourfe of
People being prefent, an Eagle came into the
Place, and hover'd over the Emperor fome time,
flying round and round him in the Air, and then
flying towards a fmall Temple or Oratory, it fet-
tled upon a little Pinacle, juft over the Statue of
j!lgrippa.
This was taken as a Prefage or Omen to the
Emperor, whether of Good or Evil was hard to
determine i but the Jugurs being confulted, they
determined it to be Evil, and that it betoken'd the
Death of the Emperor in a fhort time.
Another Accident happened the very next Day,
"fiz. a Flafli of Lightning broke upon the Statue
of the Emperor, over the Senate- Houfe, and ftruck
out the Letter C, from the Word Cafar^ in the
Infcription upon the Capital of the Work over the
Statue. ThtJugurs were again confulted, and they
again confulting with one another, and by the ordinary
Obfervations, declar'd the Emperor would dye
within a hundred Days 5 fignify'd by the Numeral
Letter C being flruck out, and that he fhould then
be reckon'd among the Gods, becaufe the Word
M S A R in the Hetrurian Tongue figniiies a
God.
Now ic fell out according to this Predi61:ion3 the
Emperor, and "Tiberius his Heir Apparent, went as far
as Beneventum. he was taken Sick there of a Diarrhaa^
and caufing himfclf to be carry 'd to Nola near
Capuay he expired ninety nine Days after the Stroke
of
of MAGIC K. 277
of the Thunder-Bolt or Lightning as above. If
then the Devil has no Knowledge of Futurity, hue
that the Study of the Inielledual World, or
World of Spirits, be a facred Science^ as the Profef^
fors of it contend 5 then thofe Augurs who a6led
upon the foot of the ancient Magick, were illumi-
nated from thofe Intelle6tual Beings, and had con-
verfe with Spirits of a differing kind from thofe
which we call Devils or Diabolical.
Now, as 'tis hard, to diftinguifli thefe Illumina*
tions, otherwife than by the Events and Con-
fequences of the Intelligence they brings fo I
think, that if firft of all, the Diilinilion be allow'd
between good and evil Spirits, ihcn 'tis a juft way
of determining, viz. that fuch Intelligence as tends
to the good of Mankind, to the Propagation of
Virtue, and preferving Honour, C'halliry, Pro-
perty and Religion, may be fuppo^'J to proceed
from good Spirits, whether Angels or other Spirits
unembodyedj on the contray, where the Corref-
pondence has a general Tendency to Mifchief, to
encourage Crime, to the hurt of Mankind in gene-
ra], to difcourage Virtue and Religion, to infulc
Heaven, and in a word, where the Tenour and
Bent of the Illumination is to do Evil, or to direcEl:
to the doing it, there we may without Injury to
Perfons, or to ihc Devil himfelf, fay it is from him,
or by his Agency, and that he (the Devil} is prin-
cipally concern'd in it J for we know ic is his Nature
and particular Property to be propagating Evil, and
that he is apparently known to hate Mankind, and
abhor, envy, and malign the Holy Nature of the
Eternal Being.
It may be a very juft Diftindion between the
blefled eternal Being, and the curfed exil'd con-^
demn'd Species of Evil Angels, in a word, be**
tween God and the Devil, to fay of them thus:
T 5 God
A S T S T E M
G o D is the Perfection of Good.
The Devil is the Extreme of Corruption.'
God the Perfection of Purity and Holinefs.
The Devil a Compofiiion of the utmoft Im-
purity.
From thefe two Contraries derive all the execu-
tive Power of Good and Evilj the Devil can no
more be the Genuine Parent of good Actions, than
an evil Tree can bring forth good Fruity than
Darkneis, which is a Privation of the glorious
Light, can be aConfequence or Produftion of it.
God can no more be the Author of Evil, than
he can Annhilate himfelf, and Ceafe to bej and he
cannot Ceafe to be, becaufe, he that Exifts from
Erernity is Eternal, and Exifts necefTarily, as well
as from himfelf
If then the Intelligence given, or the Illumina-
tions received by the Art which thefe Men pre-
tend to, is found to have thefe eflential Qualifications
of Goodnefs > 1^/2;- Beneficent to Mankind, dire6ting
Men to the prefervmg Virtue, Honour, Pro-
perty and Piety 5 then I (hould be tempted to
think they have an Acquaintance with the Intelle-;
6tual World, a Converfe with good Spirits, and a
Prefcience communicated from the good Angels,
thofc Guardians of Mankind, waking Centinels, fet to
guard the World from Evil, and to counter-aft the
Malice and Rage of Hell, but not elfe.
Here then is a Teft of the Magicians Art, and let
us not be amus'd and impos'd upon by the Preten-
ces to the facrcd Sciences, and to the ftudy of
exalted Myfteries, Incantations Divine and Sub-
lirne, and many other lofty Expreilions > fignificant
in rhcmfclves, bur not fo in the cafe before us, un-
lefs T' fti^y'd by the Virtue and juft Produdlions
which appear in thc'r Praftice. I fay, let us not be
amus'd with Ciicfc to embrace Hell in the Difguife
of
of M A G 1 C K. i7c?
of Heaven, and converle with a Deceiver \\\ ths
Robes of an Angel of Lighr.
If there are fuch glorious things attained to by
Art, and by the Study of thefey^^r^?^ Sciences^ where
ihall we find che Pra61:ice of them ? I think we mufl:
be referred back to the Augurs and Diviners among the
more honed Heathens 5 for we may almoft anfwer
for it, that nothing of this kind is feen among usj
or at lead if it is found in Theory, and there is in
Nature a Reality of Art, fuch as I have men-
tion'd above 5 that Magick is a Science laudable in
its Study, juftifiable in its Practice, fublime in its
Attainments it is yet fo blended with the wicked
Part, by the Corruption of its ProfefTors, that we
fcarcc know where to find one, either in Being or
in Story, in the whole Chridian Time, whofe Pra-
dice can be allowM to be facred, whatever can be
(aid of the Science.
It is true, there was a famM Magician in Kent^
who pretended to this, and of whom I fhall fpeak
at large in the next Chapters j and he feem'd to
a6t wholly upon the Principle of doing good, de-
tefting, punifiiing, and expofing Crime: but I
ihall give my Exceptions to it when I come to his
Story.
At prefent therefore the World are to he cxcus'd
the Midake, if they run into ic even with a kind
of general Confent, taking the Word Magick
and Magician in the word Senfe, underdanding
them all as praccifing the Diabolical Part of it, viz.
a Converfe with Evil Spirits, and a Dealing with
the Devil \ inclufive alfo of all thofc feveral Clafi^es
into which I have didinguidi'd it before.
Hence perhaps it is, that in our Difcourfing with
even the mod Learned Men upon this Subjcft, a
few, a very few excepted, it is very hard to bring
them to any Notions of a Difference between Ma-
gick and Witchcraft, between a Magician and a
T 4 Sorcerer,
to A S Y S T E M
Sorcerer, between a Student in the exalted Scien^
CCS, a Convtrfer with the Intelhdtual World, and
a Wretch that has a Familiar, a Wizzard or Nc-
cromancerj but they will, tho' they may be wrong
in It too, have them be reckonM all in a Clafs,
that they arc all Pra6titioners in the Diabolical
Part, and in a word, that they all deal with the
Devil. Indeed the Difference is not eafily prcceptible,
bccaule of the Pretences which the worft of them
make to the high Illumination, when they are
really adVing the vileit Part, and that in the ordi^
nary courfe of their Pradicej 'tis therefore by the
Confequences only, that they are to be known.
Witchcraft and Sorcery may in one Refped be
juftly faiu to be all Magick \ but I mud not allow
that all Magick is Witchcraft, as 1 diilinguifh'd
before between a Witch and a Wizzard. But fee-
ing it is fo hard to know them afunder, and that
the Impofture is fo great, the bed Method I can
take is, where Hiftory or Converfarion will fupply
Materials, to give you as many Examples of the
feveral Pradtices and Praftifers in thefe lad Ages
of the World as we can meet with, as w^U for
your Diverfion as Inftru^lion.
I mud here enter a Caution too againd a weak,
but vulgar Midakc, which to the Reproach of hur
man Underdanding the World has been very
much poHefs'd with 5 and that i.*-, to afcribe every
difficult unaccountable Performance to ihc Art Ma-
gick'^ and every fuperior Genius, every Man of a
fublime Thought, and more than ordinary Capa-
city, to he a Magician. Archimedes was a mod ac-
compulh'd Genius, and an excellent Mathema-
tician, but we will have him be a Magician too.
Fryar Bacon^ who by his Skill in the M^thema-
ticks, and the Dodiine of Motion, and of Sounds,
made a Brazen-Head to fpeak 5 of which by the
way there are many Examples in Hidory, more
ancient
ef M A G I C K. xU
ancient than Father Bacon^ yet we will have this
honeft Friar be a Witch, a Magician^ a Conjiirfr,
only becaufe the thing was beyond the orairiiiry
Conception.
Men of Thought and Head, who have a Genius
a little above their Neighbours, have on all Occi-
fions been liable to be thus treated 5 even our Savi-
our himfelf, when he afted fuch Wonders as the
like had not been feen, and caft out Devils j what
faid the amaz'd World ? The more weak and ad-
miring and innocent Thoughts were amaz'd, the
Text fays they were aftonifh'dj and at another
time they were fiird with Wonder, and the like
5
but the felf-wife Heads, the pretending Pharifces,
having neither Knowledge to reach the Divine
Power by which he wrought, and too much Pride
to fubmit to Faith, reproached him with dealing
with the Devil', He cafieth out Devils by Belzeebub
the Prince of Devils. Mat. xii. 24.
This Miflake may therefore take place m the
Cafe before me 5 aad Men who have lludied, in
the moft exquifite manner, any of the Sciences
which are lawful and commendable, and are arrived
to a degree of Kn'^wledge beyond others, may be
fufpedted of Magick^ and of the Diabolkk Magick
too, which I have been fpeaking of.
I will not venture to ftate the Bounds, criticaUy
fpeaking, between the lawful Study of Magick as a
Science, and the unlawful Part of its Practice as a
Diabolick or a Black Art, any more than between
the noble Study of Aftronomy, including the Motions
of the heavenly Bodies, and that corrupt and horrid
Impofition, that worft of Juggle, the moft fimple
and fcandalous of all Cheats, call'd judicial Aftro-
logy.
That Magick may be a handle to Witchcraft,
that one may begin where the other ends, this I
will not deny j but I muft be allowed io fay, that if
there _
iSi A SYSTEM
there is an invifible World, a World of Spirits, if
there is a Converfe between the Spirits unem-
bodied, and our Spirits embodied, which alfo I can-
not deny, whatever lawful way there can be found, if
fuch can be found, to form an Intelligence between
them, mufl be a fublime and heavenly Attainment,
at the fame time, 1 will not venture to fay fuch aii
Intelligence can be form'd.
Nor will 1 venture to fay, that there can be
any fettled Method found out to call up any of
thofe invifible Inhabitants of the World of Spirits,
to a vifible Appearance in this World, and to an
audible and vocal Converfation, fo as to receive In-»
telligence of things prefent, or Direftions in things
to come, to be advifed, counfelled or informed by
them, or to any fuch Purpofej it does not feem pro-
bable; If at any time they do or can appear, which
yet I do not grant, it muft: be fpontaneous and ar-
bitrary, how, when, where, and on what Occafi-
on they think fit : But as to our calling them up by
Art, except it be by a Diabolical Magick, and by
the immediate Affiilance of the Devil^ and perhaps
too it may he only a Delufion of Satan's, who pre«»
tending to vifit us by the good Spirits we want to
converfe with, conftitutes a miflionary Devil to perr
fonate the Spirit expeded, and fo put a Cheat up-
on the Enquirer, as the Witch of Endor raifed a
Spe6tre or Sham Samuel in the room of the true
Prophet Samuel'y who we may without Prefumption
believe knew nothing of the matter.
To pretend by Art to bring thofe good Spirits
from their State of Felicity, wherever it is, to an
Appearance for our private Concerns, feems to have
no Confiftence in the Nature of a future State ^
that there may be an invifible and imperceptible
Converfe of Spirits which wc cannot defcribe, and
appointed by Providence for Ends which we do not
fully underftand, I believe is pofliblei But it is then
done
of M A G I C K. 283
done their own way, and we know nothing of the
manner.
There is muchfaid of Guardian Angels, and fomc
feeming Ground from Scripture, but not enough to
be called an Authority from whence to ground an
Hypothecs of the manner > nor will the greateft Ma-
gician chat ever was, how much foever he pretends
to the facred Science, takes upon him to fay he can
call up or caufe to appear one of thofe guardian
Angels 5 no not by the utmoft and mofb exquifite
Art that was ever attained to; fo that all that Pare
of calling up good Spirits or Guardian Angels to a
vifible Appearance, feems to be fiftitious and
groundlefs. As to calling up evil Angels or evil Spi-
rits, that is to fay Devils as it is to be done by
the Affiftance of the Devil^ and that he has given
his \ffiftance to the doing it, and therefore can do
it, I make no Queftion ; and therefore when the Ma-
gicians do at any time bring up Appearances and
frightful Apparitions by their Art, I fhall always
fuppofe it to be the Devilj that is to fay, the Devil
raifed by Confent of the Devil-, the Devil coming
up at their Call, who he had before confentcd fhould
have Leave to call him 3 for he muft come Volun-
tier too, nor can he be called up or difturbed with-
out his Confent; but he bargains with thofe wick-
ed People upon fuch Conditions as they agree be-
tween them, that he ihall obfcquioufly attend
whenever they ufe fuch and fuch Methods to call
him, and this is Witchcraft, and this is .Magickj
This Magick is JVitchcraft^ and this M^itchcraft is
Magick: let any one diftinguifti between them if
they can.
CHAP.
^84 A S r S T E M
C H A P. ffl.
Of the frefent Tretences of the Magicians
:
How they defend themfelves ; and fome Ex^
ambles of their TraSiice,
THE Magicians, fuch as acknowledge them-
felves to be acquainted with the Black Art^ as
we call it, are not dumb and fpeechlefs in their own
Cafe 'y on the contrary, they defend themfelves with
the utmoft Artificer have their hiftorical Accounts
of their Praftice, and give the moftfair and plaufible
Sketches of the Art jt felf that can be imagined.
They infift that it is a general Miftake, a vulgar
Error, and injurious to ail the Pra6tifers of this
Science, to fay they have a Familiar, as we under-?
fland the Word, that is, an evil Spirit, or that they
deal with the Devil -y they own they have Acceft
to, and an Intercourfe with fupcriour Beings, and
converfe with the World of Spirits } but that they
are the good and well-difpofed Spirits, who are al-
ways beneficent, kind, and ready to do all pof-
fible Offices of Love to Mankind} that they are
certainly influenc'd from above, and that confe-
quently it is fo far from being true, that they are
Diabolick and wicked Spirits, that on the contrary
they are always employed in Matters fuperiour to
the Nature of the Infernal Spirits 5 that they do
not amufe the World with Fidtions, and deceive
and abufe the People, that come to thom with their
Enquiries > that they do not, like the Devil's Ora-
cles of old, give ambiguous and doubtful Anfwers
in the Cafes and Enquiries that are brought before
them, to cheat and delude the innocent En-
quirer j but that they, on the contrary, tell them
the Truth of every thing, be it for Good or Evil
to
of MAG I C K.
to them 5 that they often dcteft Criminals, expofe
Vice, prevent Mifchief, and promote Virtue j
Things no body will pretend are in the Intent and
Meaning of evil Spirits > that they do not impofe
upon the ignorant to cheat and defraud them, or
make unju It Advantages of them.
Indifcourfing many Years fince upon this Subjeft
with aparticular Friend, a judicious and learned
Man, and one tliat was not eafily impofed upon,
I fecmed to be doubtful oi the Reality of the thing
in general, and whether there was indeed fuch a
thing as that of Men having Intercourfe with the
World of Spirits, and whether we might diflin-
guifh between that and Witchcraft, infiiting that I
thought it was all Witchcraft, Sorcery, and the
Devil,
He told me he was of my Mind 'till fome Years
before, that he had Occafion to converfe with the
famous Magician called Dr. Boreman in Kent^ who
he aflured me was a very grave judicious Man, and,
as he believed, a good Man. I had once, faid he,
above all the reft, a long Conference with him on
a particular Occafion j but *tis too long to tell you
the Particulars. If 'tis not too long for you to tell,
faid /, it will not be too long for me to hear, for
J am really impatient to know what is to be known
of that Kind J and the more, becaufe 1 am at a
lofs to pafs a Judgment about it. Well, faid he^
if I tire you then with the length of it tell me, and
I will leave off: So he began his Story thus:
' I had, faid he^ a Friend, a young Man, who defired
' me, upon an extraordinary OccaQon to go with
* him (as he called it) to a Cunning Man.
* I asked him^ What was the Bufinefs?
' He faid^ It was Bufinefs of Confequence to him,
* and tho' he did not care to tell it juit then, yet I
' ihould know it afterward.
tU A S T S T E M
« Hold him^ I had no Faith at all in thofc fort
< of People whom they called Cunning Men.
• Nay, fays he^ I believe they deal with the De*
* vil^ but I don't care for that, if I can but have Sa-
* tisfaftion in what I go about.
' I toldh'm^ I differ'd from him in that too, for
* I neither believed that they dealt with the Devil^
* or the Devil with them j or that they could fay
' any thing to him that was to the Purpofe.
' Why, they do tell ftrange things, fays he,
' / told him^ I believed nothing of it} but that ic
< was alia Cheats and fo I feem'd loth to have
* him go to the Cunning Man at all.
iV. B. You muft underftand here, that my Friend
was not fo really doubtful as he made the
young Man believe he was j but, as he had
told me before, he believ'd there was fomc-
thing in it, but he could never come at the
Speech of one of the Pretenders to the Art,
and fo was entirely ignorant of what they did,
or how they proceeded, and therefore (as he
told me) he was mighty willing to go with
him, tho' he made fome Shew of being back-
backwards 5 fo he went on with his Dif-
courfe.
« I was not only loth to let him go, fays my
« Friend, but I told him I did not care for it, and
* therefore defired he would excufe me going with
« him 5 but when he told me who the cunning
* Man was, and that he would go to the famous
*
Dr. Boreman^ ray Curiofity prevail'd with mcj
' not only not to perfwade him againft going, but
* to refolve to'go with him my felf.
* In a word, we appointed a Day, and I went
* with him, for I had a great mind to talk with
' the Do6lor.
< When
cf M A G I C K. 287
* When wc came to the Houfe (it was in Kenf^
^ not far from Maidftone^ where the Do6bor liv'd at
' that time > I don't remember the Place exa6fcly)
' but, I fay, when we came to the Place, a Ser-
* vant came to the Door, and very civilly led us in-
* to the Houfe, and bad us fit down j leaving us in
' a large Hall, where we walk'd about, looking
* on his Magical Pictures, of which we faw a great
' many, whofe meaning I did not at all underftand,
' and the Servant went away, as I fuppofc, to call
' his Mafter.
' After a while the Doftor came in with a Staff
* in his Hand like a Crutch, as I thought > and I
' thought alfo he was lame, having lately had the
' Gout: He was a grave old Man, with a long
' black Velvet Gown on, his Beard long, and the
' upper Lip of it trimm'd into a kind of Mufchato^
* a Cap on his Head with a Border of Hair within
' ir, as was the Cuftom in thofe Days.
' After ufual Civilities, he began to enquire our
* Bufincfsj and direfting his Speech to me, as the
' Senior in appearance, I told him, that young
< Man (pointing to him that came with me) my
« Friend, had fomething of Importance to commu-
^ nicate to him, and which he wanted his Advice
' in J and fo, fays he, I bid the young Man give the
' Doftor an Account of his Bufinefs.
' This young Man had, it feems, a particular
* Cafe which he went to him about j andtho' he had
' defired me to go with him, as I have faid, yet he
' had not told me his Cafe j fo I was oblig'd to
' dire£t him to tell it himfelf.
' Then the Doctor defir'd the young Man to
' give him his Cafe in writings but he told him, he
* could not write v/ell enough, or explain his Cafe
' fo intelligibly to'him in writing.
' Well then, fays the DoBor^ tell it me in Words
* at length, and I'll write it down from your own
^ Mouth:
i88 A S Y S T E M
' Mouth : However, I perfwaded him to write it
'
down as well as he could j upon which, he dc-
^
fired a Pen, Ink and Paper, which the Do6i:or or-
'
der'd his iVlan to give him 5 and in the mean
* time, the Do6tor ask'd me to walk into another
* Room} come, fays he, we will leave him ro do
* it, that we may not diilurb him. So we went iri-
* to the next Room.
' Then he began a Difcourfe, by asking me if I
' knew anv thing of the young Man's Cafej which
* I really did not, and therefore told him fo > but
* if I had known it, I fhould hardly have given
* him any <iccount, for I took that to be a
* Piece ot his Art, to pick as much of the Circum-
* ftance of the Cafe out privately as he could, fo to
* guide his Anfwers \ but I quite miftook the Man.
* From that we fell into feveral other Difcourfes,
* and among the reft, I asked the Do6tor, if it
* would be no Offence to him to let us talk a lit-
* tie about the Study of ihofe things which he was
* fo fam'd for.
' He faid. No not at all, if I was difpofed to talk
* of rhcm in a ferious and friendly manner.
' I told him, I hoped he did not think I had any
* ill Defign, tho' a Stranger > if he did, I would
' not defire to fay any more j and that as I did not
' know what he might underftand by the Word
* Friendly, I would not move it any farther.
' He faid. He did not apprehend any thing dan-
* gerous} for he ufed no unlawful Arts, but he
'
faid feveral Perfons made a Jeft of thofe things
* which he efteemed facred, and that he did not care
* for thofe Difcourfes or thofe People who buf-
* foon'd things becaufe they did not underftand
* them.
« I told him, that whatever I thought, he fhould
* find I would neither treat him, or theSubje£t we
* might difcourfe of, with any Difrefpe6t.
^
^ He
»/ MAGIC K. 28^
^ He told me he would take my Word for It;
^ fo we fell into feveral Difcourfes about Science in
^ general, particularly of the Study of Magick and
* the Pradice of it, and when firft it was known
' in the World.
* He told me, I feem'd Ignorant in the thing it
' felf, and to what purpofe, fays he, ihould I go to
' fpeak of the Original of a thing which you have
* not right Notions of ? So we difcours'd a little
' farther upon it, thus:
' A. What Notions would you have me enter-
^ tain of it? I fcarce know what you mean by the
' thing itfelf
' Dr. Why, Sir^ you feem neither to know what
* I mean, or what you mean your {t\^.
* A. 'That is to fay^ I do not exprefs my felf per-
' haps right; then you may fet me to rights, and
* it would be very kind to do fo.
' Dr. You fpeak of my pradifing as an Art -y now
' I praftife no Art^ nor ufe any Art-y I am no
' Juggler^ Sir; you don't fee me llicw Tricks.
^ A. 1 wou'd not offend youj Sir; will you tell
' me then what it is you do pra6tife.^
' Dr. Neither will I be offended ; but if you
*•
will give me leave to ask you a previous Queflion
' or two, i fhall be the better able to anfwcr your
' other Queflion afterwards.
* A. Any Queflion yoU pleafe.
' Dr. Why then, will you tell me what brought
' you hitherto me?
' A. Why really, Sir, my Anfwer mufl be, I can-
^ not well tells my Friend who is writing there in
*
the other Room, will tell you that better than I.
' Dr. Why then fhall I tell you what you corns
'
for? perhaps you'll think that fomething odd.
' A. So indeed 1 fliould, if I did not confidcr you
'
as a Mm of Art.
U « Dr.
ijfo A S T S r E M
' Dr, No, no, not a Man that deals with the
* Devil^ as you fancy I do.
' A. Nay, you muft deal with fomc body, if you
* tell me my Bufinefs here, when I don't know it
« my felf.
' Dr. Why, I will tell you in few Words then 5
* your Friend comes about Bufinefs, you to fatisfy
' your Curiofity.
' J. Upon my Word I think you arc in the
* right.
' Dr. Well, I have ufed nogreat matter of ART
* you fee yet.
' ji. Nay, I don't know that j I fuppofe what
* you do is pretty much in the dark, and impei'cep-
' tible 3 fo you might ufe Art, and I know nothing
« of it.
^ Dr. That's true, or elfe it would be no Art.
* A. But is my Curiofity any Offence to you,
* Dodor? if it is, I'll ha' done and fay no more, ,
* but leave you and my Friend together, for I don't I
* come to affront you, far from ic, I afTure you.
' Dr. No, no, 'tis no Offence at all to me j on-
ly fince you feem to talk friendly and freely, give
me leave to ask you fome Queflions firfl, and then
I'll ftate yours for you, and anfwer them direftly,
and I hope to your Satisfa6lion.
* y/. With all my Heart 3 ask mc what you 11
* pleafe.
Dr. ' What did you fuppofe me to be, on
* what did your Friend tell you I was, before you j
* came ?
' vf. And you will promife me not to take it ill
* if I fpeak plain Englifh ?
* Dr. Not in the leafl > I'll put it into your
* Mouth, for I know what you took me for, as well
* as you do your felf.
' ji. I doubt you do, Sir 3 and that look? as if wc
* were in the right.
Dr.
of M A G 1 C K. %^x
Dr. ' Not at all neither, but of that afterwards
;
* you and your Friend took me for a Necromancer^
* a Magician^ one that deals with the Devil.^ can
' raife the Devil^ converfes with him, and by his
* Help can refolve difficult Queftions, give Anfwers
* in doubtful Cafes > and, in lliort, that 1 am a Con^
' jurer,
^ A, And fo you mufl be, I think, or elfe how
* do you know all this ?
' Dr. How I know it, is not the Queftion 5 but
' whether it is true or no ?
* A, Exa6bly true to a tittle.
' Dr. And if I am no fuch Perfon, have I not
' then a great deal of wrong done me ?
' A. You know, Sir, 'tis natural for People to
fay, a Man deals with the Devils when he tells
People their Thoughts, foretells to them what
comes to pafs, and refolves fuch Doubts as no
body but the Devil could refolve.
* Dr. And perhaps the Devil himfelf could not
^ do thofe things if he was to appear and do his ut-
* moft, for he knows no more of things to come
' than you or I do, and perhaps not fo much.
* A. Nay, diO not join me to your felF, pray^ for
' you may know more than the Devil himfelf
* can tell you.
' Dr. Or elfe I would burn my Books, and pre-
* tend no more to the ficred Sciences which 1
have fo much Veneration for, and which you call
my Pra^ice. -
^ A. If I was fiire of that, lihould have another
kind of Notion of you and your Practice than I
have yet, 1 afTure you.
* Dr. If you was fure of what .^
' A. Why, that you do not perform thcfe things
by the Help of a familiar Spirir.
' Dr. Nay hold^ I don't fay that neither j but
are there no Spirits but what are Devils?
U i J.
tpz A S r S T E M
' ji. I don't know indeed as to thatj but we
* underlland no other j when we talk of a familiar
* Spirit we always underftand (by it) the Devil.
' Dr. Then you mifunderftand it, Sir, that's
' certain : unfufferable Ignorance ! why, ai'e there
* no good Spirits ?
* -^. I can fay nothing to that.
* Dr. And perhaps are not defirous to be in-
' formed.
' A. Nay there you wrong me, and take me for
* a Fool into the Bargain j for there are none but
' Fools that have no Delight in underflanding 5 I
' would be inform'd of every thing that I do not
' know.
' Dr. There would be no fuch things as Fools,
* Sir, if they were willing to be inform'd.
If Fools could their own Ignorance difcern^
ihefd he no longer Fools^ becaufe they'd learn,
* A. Well, I am very willing to learn, I aflure
* you, and of you too, whatever you pleafe to in-
* form me 3 perhaps I may be in the wrong as to
' what you fay of good Spirits 5 but I never heard
* of any.
' Dr. That's ftrange indeed! you have been much
* out of their Care, fure.
^ A. \ don't know that neither j I hope not. If
* they have any of us in Charge for Good, I may
* be under their Care I hope, and yet know no-
* thing of it my felf.
* Dr. At leaftit feemsyou have been out of their
* Acquaintance, but that is not much to the Cafej
* the Lofs has been yours to be fure, and the Fault
* too.
* A. The Lofs may have heen mine j but how
* does it appear that the Fault has been mine too ?
<5 JOr.
of MAGIC rc
* Dr, It feems evident to me 5 and perhaps I may
* convince you of it, if you allow me to ask you
* a few more fuch innocent Queftions as thefe.
* y/. With all my Heart, efpecially if they are
' innocent.
' Dr. If you have any Reafon to fufpefl: them,
' do not anfwer.
' A, And you give me Leave to ufe my Liberty,
' Sir, without Offence ?
' Dr. Ay, your utmoft Liberty, Sir 5 whyfhould
* I be offended? I think you ought rather to be
* offended, if I ask any thing that does not become
*
me : The firfl: Queftion I would ask you is, whe-
* ther you think there is an invifible World.
^ y^. That's no unfair Queftion at all j and you
* fhall find. Sir, I won't cavil, I'll anfwer diredrly.
^ I make no doubt but there is.
' Dr. But let my Queftion be dire<9:too; by an
* invifible World, I don't mean, as the Jfironomers
'
f^ll^P-i t^^^ there are Planetary Worlds, made in-
* viiible only to us by their Diftance.
' A. No, no, I do not take you foj I believe
* there is a World of Spirits, and that 1 fuppofe is
* what you mean by invifible 5 alfo that this World
' youfpeakofis inhabited by Spirits only, and there-
' fore juftly called invifible.
' Dr. You are kind, nay generous in Argument,
^ for you grant fafter than I ask.
' ^. I do that to fave Circumlocutions, and giv-
* ing you Trouble.
' D. Well Sir, where do you fuppofe this World
* of Spirits is? for there muft be a Locality for
^ the dwelling even of Spirits j how elie do we
' call it a World? and Heaven itfelf is a Place, ac-
^ cording to the common underftanding ofthe Word.
' A. It is hard to fiy where it is, at leaft 'tis hard
^ to me \ fo I cannot anfwer that Queftion, at leaft
^ not dir^ly as I would do.
U ^
^Dr.
1^1
?P4 A SYSTEM
* Dr. It is true, the infinite Spaces above are not
* eafily defcribed, as they are not to be mathemati-
^ cally lin'd outj but we have Reafon to know
^ the Inhabitants of it are not very remote from us,
* and that brings on another Queftion,
^ A. \ know fome People think the Regions of
* the Air, even within the Compafs of the Atmo-
* fphere, are full of Spirits, and that of divers kinds,
* fome good, and forne evil,
* Dr. I have nothing to fay to that Notion;
* I can't allow they inhabit promifcuouily the
* fame Regions, and dwell together 5 as good and bad
* People live here among one another without Tii^
< ftinftion.
* A. I don't pretend to refolve that Queftion in*
*•
Dr. Neither did I propofe it, Sir; but my Que-
' flion is thisj As you grant a World of Spirits,
* and that you do not know where it is,} fo that for
* ought you know it may be very near, as well as
< very remote > nor to a Spirit is diftance of Place
' any thing worth confidering, if I may fpeak my
^ Opinion : But my Qtieftion, I fay, is this : Do
< you believe that the Spirits inhabiting theinvifibic
' World have any Converfe with us, or with oui?
' embodied Spirits, in this World ?
< A. Truly it is a nice Queftion, and what I
* have often confidered very ferioufly } I am of
^ Opinion there is a certain fecret Converfe of Spi-
^ rits, tho' I cannot underftand any thing of the
^ manner.
* Dr, Well, Sir, your Conceptions arc much the
^ fame with mine, only that you believe there is,
^ and 1 am fure of it.
' A. That's carrying it a great way > and I thinfc
^ this brings me to turn the Tables, and to demand
Leave to ask you fome Queftions in my turn, if
^ you have done, or when you have done.
Dr.
ef M A G I C K. ipy
* i)r. With all my Heart, Sir 5 pray ask what you
pleafc.
' J. My firfl: Queftion will be. Sir, how you can
fay you are fure there is fuch a Converfe with
the Spirits of the inviiible World?
' Dr. Becaufe I have a6tually conversed with
them my felf.
' A. Now you come to the Point indeed. But
what then do you call Converfing?
' Dr. Why, I call feeing them, fpeaking to
them, and hearing them fpeak, Converfmg i is noc
that as clear as the other?
' ^. The Expreflion is clear, but the thing cx-
prefs'd is not fo, at leaft not to m-e : How do you
reconcile feeing, and fpeaking, to the thing call'd
Spirits?
' Dr. Why, therein you and I differ in our Cir- .
cumftances, and this is the fublime Quality of the
Sciences which we profefsj that being under the
Operation of a higher and exalted Mind, the Eyes
'
of the Soul, which is a Spirit, can operate upon
^
immaterial Objefts, and fee what to common
'
Sight is caird invifible.
' ji. This is all myflcrious, and if you will allow
'
me the Freedom, we ihould call it all Cant and
•
unintelligible.
' Dr. I know it very well 3 and we on the other
^ hand call your Difcourfe empty and infignificantj
' for that you neither underftand what you fay,
' nor fay what you might eafily be taught to un-
' derftandj and if a Man enlightned in this fuperior
' Manner comes to talk with you, and would in-
'
{lru<^ you a little, you prefently fly out, and cry
' a Magician, a Conjurer, that he has a Familiar,
* and deals with the Devil-y this was not always fo.
' yi. This brings me to my firft Queltion Sir ex-
' aftly, namely^ Whence is the- Orii^nalof what you
U 4 ' call
ip6 A S T S T E M
^ call your fublime PraOiice, and where and when
' did it begin?
' Dr. I could run you back. Sir, to its Original^
' and give you theHiilory of it, but 'twould be too
' long, I doubt your want of Patience.
^ j^. My Curiofity is too great to let me wane
' Patience.
' Dr. Well, ril give you an Abridgement then
' of it tbusy Before the Deluge^ when the Ante-
^ diluveans had the Blefling of Longevity, to the
*"
Number, of alinoft: a thoudind Years, we have
'
many Tcftimonies of their converfing, not only
*
with the Spirits of the invifible World, but with
'
the great Life of Spirit, the Being of Beings 5
^ and if we can deduce any thing from Con-
' fequences, divine Spirits daily illuminated the
. ' Minds of Mankind, and convey 'd all ufeful
' Science to them, and that to fuch a degree as
* has never been attained to fince, by which all the
^ moft exalted Parts of both natural and fuperna-
^ tural Knowledge were convey'd into their Under-
^ ftandings.
' y^. They had, without queftion, a fuperior Ge-
* nius in the Antediluvean State, far above what
*
we have now, and your Notions of that kind are
'
very clear to me, I agree with you in that.
'
Z)r. They had not fo much a fuperior Genius.
* as they had a fuperior Illumination 3 what fhould
^ you and I have, if we had livM three or four
* hundred Years, and had convers'd all that while
' ' in an angelick Society, and with an invifible Spe-
' cics of Creatures, in whom cqmpleat Knowledge
^ was but meer Nature, and who had the Good-
^ nefs to be always communicating the moll perfe6b
? Ideas, the moft fublime Images to our Thoughts ?
f what fhould we be capable of?
of M A Q I C K 197
* A, Nay, I think you might fay, what fliould
* we not be capable of.
' Dr, Then confidering that at the end of that
* three or four hundred Years we were but in the
* Prime of our Age, in full Strength of Judg-
* menr, and Vigour of Mind, capable to receive
* the mofb divine Impreffions of facred Knowledge,
* what fhould we not learn with fuch Teachers?
' A. But how do we know that they were thus
« blefs'd?
* Br. Why, does not all your Accounts of thofe
* Times bring in the People converfing thus? Nay,
' do you not fay that God, or that Inconceivable
' Something (which you call fo)the King, andGo-
* vernor, and Maker of Spirits, convers'd among
' them, talk'd with and to them ?
' A. Yes, we believe God himfelf convers'd
' with them, particularly with Adara the firft of
' them, and with Noah the laft of them, and no
' doubt with many others between.
* Dr. Well, and did the great Being of Beings
^ converfe with Man, and not the fmaller and lower
* degrees of Spirit? do you think the Servants did
' not converfe, if the Mafter did?
' A. Why, that indeed 1 never confider'd be-
^ fore, I confefs.
' Z)r. But where elfe had they the Knowledge of
^ fome things, which nothing but Spirit and fpiri-
* tuous Converfe could poffibly convey ?
' A, What things were they? I do not rightly
' underftand you.
' Dr. Why^ firft for Example, Musick, that
* Heavenly Science, the Dodrine of Sounds ^ mea-
' fur'd and divided fo as by Diflbnance to make
' Harmony, to be admir'd by every Ear, to move
' the Pailions, and agitate the Soul, to be read by
f Notes, underftood by the differing Key of
f Sounds, the only univerfal Charader in the
' ^ ^ World.
ap8 A S Y S T E M
* World. Could the Genius of Man invent it? Nor
* it came from the invifible World, and was cer«
* tainly communicated from the Fountain of Know-
* ledge, by the Agency of the good Spirits, with
* which they fo freely converfed.
' A. You advance boldly, Dodbor.
« Z)r. That may fairly be afTerted, which is im-
' poffible to be otherwife.
^ A,\ won't venture to fay it is impoflible.
* Dr, But I dare fay it, and with good Reafon >
* then there is the Do6trine of N u m b e r s, which
* we call vulgarly Arithmetick-y this with Muftck
^ feem to be two Infinites, the Bounds of them
* and the Variety is not to be meafur'd, or conceiv'd
* of, and how could human Genius meafure them
* out?
' A, What do you inferr from thence?
' Dr. Nothing but this ; that thofe good beneficent
* Spirits, with whom Mankind had then the Blef-
' fing of a daily Society, fill'd their Minds, and
' infpir'd their Thoughts with thefe noble and ufe-
' ful Difcoveries, and qualify'd them daily to im-
* prove upon them.
^ A. You talk above me now indeed.
* Dr. You cannot fay but I talk plainly, and in-
* tcUigible.
' A. So you conclude, that the good Spirits in-
* ftrufted them in thefe fublimer Parts of Know-
* ledge? Pray, why did they not teach them A-
« ftronomy, natural Philofophy, and all the ufeful
* Branches of the Mathematicks ?
' Dr. And kt no doubt they dy. There's the
* Ark for Example i you fay, God fpoke to Noah^
* and told him in general what kind of Vefiel ic
* jfhould be J by which I fuppofe you may under-
* Hand, God told him that the World ihould be
' drownM, and that he fhould be fav'd in a Ship,.
^ which he fhould build ? But can you think Noah
' could
of M A G I C K. ipj
could do all this without the more particular Dire-
ftion of thefe good and beneficent Spirits, inftru-
di'mg him how to perform the Work ? How the
Beams, and the Timbers, the Planks and all
the Parts were to be put together 3 how the
Bottom was to be fhap'd for fwimming, the Head
and the Stern for breaking off the Force of the
Water, in that truly unbounded Ocean the
Flood J
all thefe things I make no Queftion he
was inftrufted in by the daily Afliftance of the
good Inhabitants of the invisible Regions, who
freely had at that time an Intercourfe with the
embodyed, that is, imprifon'd. Spirits of Men;
and thefe are the fame that we converfe with
now; fo that I have fairly brought it down to our
own Times.
' ji. Sir, your Difcourfe is very well laid toge-
ther I confefs; but you make a long leap, and
fome of it in the dark too j from Noah^ and the
Year of the World i
f75, or thereabouts, to our
time, which is about three thoufand Years after.
How is it that thefe good Spirits left off their
Good- will towards Men, and feem to fliun us as
much now as they courted us before?
^ Dr. I do not find itfo, I rather fay they do and
would converfe with us ftill, if we either faw the
Bleffing of it, or knew how to value it, and made
it appear we defir'd it.
' A. But when did it break off? what, did the
Flood put an end to it ?
' Dr. It feems, that Men, by a differing Con-
dud, and a way of Life too grofs for fo excellent
and fublime a Converfe, have render'd thcmfelves^
unworthy and unqualify'd fince the Flood; fo that
the angelick Train feem to have forfaken thQ
Earth, and only communicate themfelves to fuch
as render themfelves acceptable and worthy by
a Life of earnell Application to the Study of di-
* vine
oo A S Y S T E M
^ vine Science, and who feck after the high Illu-
^ mination.
' ji. So that there are fome who enjoy this ex-
* traordinary Society ftiil?
'
Dr. Why not, pray ? The good Spirits are the
' fame 5 they change not, neither is their Good-
* will towards Men abated j but the cuftom of
* the World has been, and flill is, to be fhy and a-
^ fraid of them, taice them to be evil Spirits, and,
' as the World calls them. Devils j fo that a good
^ Spirit cannot now offer its Ailiftance to Man, or
' go about to do any good to Mankind, but they
' are frighted and terrify'd, and cry out the Devil^
* fly from it, and refufe to accept the Benefit
« offer'd.
* j4. But it feems all do not treat them fo.
' Dr, No. But how then are they treated who
* a6t after another manner?
' A. Why, how are they treated?
' Dr. Are we not treated as Dasmoniacks, as Ma?
*
gicjans and Conjurers, Necromancers, and that deal
' with the Devil. Did not you take me for fuch?
""
J. It is very true, I did.
* Dr. Ay, and are you not under fome fort of Fright,
' even all the while you are talking with me, as if
' you were talking with the Devil, and left I
' fhould raife the Devil while you are here?
' yf. I cannot fay but it is in fome meafure true.
' Dr. And yet we know no more of the Devil
^ than you do, nor converfe any more with him
' than other Folks do, nor fo much neither.
' Having carried on our Converfation thus far,
^ my Companion, who was all this while a writing
* his Cafe, came to the Door, and calling to the
' Dodor, told him he had donej Well, fays the
' Doctor to him, pray give me the Paper then, and
' let me read it overj fo he gave him his Paper,
9 which was a long one indeed, and very dole writ-
of M A G I C K. 3©
* ten, containing all his Cafe, which it Teems was
' very particular, and required abundance of better
* Advice than I thought the grave Do6i:or was able
' to give him, but I was really miftaken.
I was far from being tir'd with this Account,
and believe I fhall not tire the Reader with fetting
it down. Indeed I interrupted him here, v/ith ask-
ing him if he did not yet know his Man's Cafe, and
if he did not read the Papery but he told me he
did not, (o I defir'd him to let me have the reft of
the Story, and he went on thus.
' My Man, faid he, who was with me, told me
' little or nothing of his Cafe, as I hinted before,
' except that he faid it was very Difficult and
* Intricate 5 and that if it could not be refolv'd, and
* brought to a Conclufion, he was lure he fhould
* never get over it, but ihould be undone, and that
' therefore he came to this Man.
' Why, fays /, what do you take the Man to be?
* Why, what fhould I take him for, fays be?
' Nay, I fuppofe, faid /, you take him for a
^ Conjurer, and one that deals with the Devil.
* I care not who he is, or who he deals with,
* fays the Man^ ^o I do but get my Bufinefs done by
' him, find out a Man or two that I look for, and
' have fome fatisfadion in my other Affairs.
' I don't know who you look for, faid /, and I
' doubt you don't know who 'tis you feek to.
' Why, the Devil^ fays he-y who d'ye think I
'
feek to, when I come to a Cunning Man ?
' This Difcourfe was before we came to the
' Dodor's Houfe, and was tlie Occafion indeed
' that 1 was at firft fo fhy of him, and made fo
' many round-about Cautions when I firft fpoke to
' him.
* When he had written hfs Cafe down, and
' given it to the Magiciany the Doctor ask'd hira
' if he could not leave the Paper with him, and
^ come
30i A S r S T E M
* come again in two or three Days ? The Enquirer
* feem'd uneafy at that, tho' he did not diredly fay
* No 5 but the Doctor perceiv'd it> Well then,
* faid he, are you willing to flay here with me
* about eleven or twelve Hours, and fit up ail
* Night? The Man look'd earneflly at me, as if
* it had been to ask me whether he fhould venture
< to ftay all Night, but withal look'd a little fright-
* ed too.
' The Doftor feeing him look at me, as if he
* would ask my Advice, turn'd to me, fmiling at
* the Man's Backwardnefs.
* Sir, fays he^ I perceive you muft decide it j
< he feems a little frighted, I don't know at what.
' Sir, fays /, fmiling, I believe he is afraid the
* Candles will Hrn blue,
* Ay, fays he^ you fee the Reafon why the good
* Spirits have left off converfing with Mankind j
^ and you fee how we that are Men of Art, and
* who have ftudied the facred Sciences, fufFer by
* the Errors of common Fame 5 they take us all
^ for Devil-Mongers, damn'd Rogues, and Con-
< jurers.
' It is very true, Sir, faid I, I fee it now > he is
* afraid in ihort that you will raife the Devil.
* With that he turns to the Man> Hark ye Friend,
* fays he, are you afraid to ftay all Night ? fpeak
* honeftly, if you are, and tell mefo.
' Why, Sir, fays the Man, I can't fay but I am
' a little uneafy about it, tho' I don't know at
^ what, for I an't very apt to be afraid of Sights,
' notl. With that I put in a Word to my Compa-
* nion 5 Why Coufin, fays I, if you are uneafy about
' feeing any ftrange Sight, or hearing any thing un-
' common, what did you come to this Gentleman
' for? you know very well what you told me you
' underftood him to be, and what you cxpeded of
* him,
« Nay,
of M A G I C K. 303
* Nay, fays the Conjurer^ I muft needs fay,
* he that is afraid to the fee Devil^ ihould never
' come to fee U S.
' Why, you don't always deal with the Devily
' do ye ? fays the Man,
' Nay, fays he^ I han't told you yet that I deal
' with him at all -, but 1 fay, you fhould not he
afraid of him, when you come of thefe Errands j
for it feems you fuppofe we talk with him for you.
' Why, that is as much as to tell me, fays the
young Mauj you can raife the Devil for me, if you
pleafe.
* Well, come be plain with me, and tell me;
have you have a Mind to fee him or no ? fays the
Doftor laughing.
« No, not I, fays he^ not at all, and that made
^
me uneafy.
' Well, well, fays he^ you fliall not fee the Devil
^ then.
' But fliall I fee nothing elfe. Sir? fays he. I
' would fee none of your Spirits, whether they arc
' Devils or no.
' I tell you, fays the Doftor, you fliall fee no-
' thing to hurt you.
' But, fays the Man again, I don't know what to
* fay, you fpeak in generals 5 pray don't fright me,
' any more than hurt me.
' I tell thee again, fays the Doftor, I'll neither
' hurt thee, nor fright theej but if you will have
' nothing done for you, what do you give me your
* Cafe for? and if you are afraid to fee, or hear any
* thing, why do you not care to leave your Cafe
' with me, and come again?
' This was fuch a reafonablc Propofal, that I
' could not but tell my young Man, that I thought
' he was playing the Fool with the Dodorj if you
* ftay, you mull be content to fee what is to be
* feenj and if you don't care to venture that, can't
* you
364 A S T S T E M
you go, and come again ? fo in a word, I advis'd
him to leave his Caie with the Do6tor, and go
away, and come for an Anfwer when he ihould
appoint him.
' As we were going away, the Doftor takes
me by the Hand, the young man being gone out
of the Door J You fee, Sir, the Notions the poor
innocent well-meaning People have of all the
good Spirits of the invifible World 5 and tho' in
their Diftrefles they will come to us, and we
make fome Search for them, yet they give the Devil
all the Praife of it> nay tho' they receive good
from it 'y and yet they acknowledge the Devil to
be the Author of nothing but Mifchief
^ But Sir, faid I, you could I fuppofe give this
honed: Man what Anfwer you fhall purpofc to
give him, without letting him fee any Appearan-
ces to fright or terrific him?
* I have nothing about me, fays he, or that con-
verfes with me, that need to fright or terri£e any
one, much lefs that will do him any hurt. I do not
fay, but as the good Spirits are beneficent and
kind, and may meet and converfe upon any Occa-
fions, and in any Place from their own happy In-
clination, to ferve and aflift the opprefs'd or indigene
Creatures,may come and go,pafs and repafs in or near
myHoufe, which would be to me the greatefl Feli-
city of Life. On this Occafion the Man might have
heard fome little Noifes, and perhaps have feea
fome Motions rather than Bodies, which he might
call Spedres and Apparitions, or Devils, or what he
would 5 yet thefe,as they would take no Notice of
him, or do any thing to terrify or diforder him, fo
he would have nothing to do but to fit ftill, and
not offer to ftir, or fpeak, and be under no Concern
at all.
' Well, SirJ faid /, were the Cafe mine, as it is
not, I aiTure you I would have U'ufted you, for
of MAGIC K. 30
I do not think, let the Cafe be what it will, that
it is your Bufinefs to fufFer your Clients to receive
any Hurt in your Houfe, or to be frighted, fo as
to bring any evil Report upon you.
' Sir, fays the Doctor^ my Bufinefs is to do good .
to all Men, and to hurt none, as is the Dcfire of
thofe fuperior Beings, which I have the Happi-
nefs to converfe with> and therefore it only is
wanting to us, that the poor People were a little
lefs afraid of us, and that they came to us for
meerNcceffity only, and not meerly tofatisfie their*
Curiofity, as is often their Cafe. However,
added he^ as to the young Man your Friend, lee
him go home, to-morrow you will fee he will
come back to me in a great Hurry, tho' I han'c
order'd him to come till Friday^ as you heard,
but I warrant ye he will dream fome ftrange Dream
to-night, his very Fright will make him do it,
and then he will come and defire me to interprec
his Dream for him 5 and then you may hear farther.
' Well, Sir^faid /, I fliall obferve him, and per-
haps he will ask me to come along with himj if
he does, I fhall venture to come.
* No, fays the Dodfor^ I don't think he will ask
you to come, I believe he will be in better Heart
to-morrow 5 and it may be he'll offer to ftay all
Night with me, and all Day too, if I defire him,
let him fee what he will.
' I think, faid /, he's a Fool, he don't ftaynow$
indeed if it had been my Cafe, I would have
trufled you.
' Well, Sir, fays he^ if you have any Occa-
fion in which I can render you any Service, I
fhall be always ready to anfwer your Expe£lations
in the bed manner I am able 5 and in the meaa
time, I hope you will no more have thofe weak
•^ Notions, as if all the Intelligence Mankind can
• attain to from the invifible World muft be with
^ '
X ' th^
A SYSTEM
^ the Z)m/, or the evil Spirits. I hope you will
' fee, that there are Cafes come before me, which
' the Devil would no more be a Devil if he fliould
* give any Satisfaftion in, or any Relief to the
' Inquner
••
1 gave him an Anfwer in as obliging Terms as
« I could, and fo we parted, and I came to the
« young Man, who waited for me with the utmoft'
* Impatience, and with fome kind of Terror j for
* 1 found he was in a Sweat, tho' it was a cold
' Evening too. *
* When 1 came up to him, I ask'd him how he
' did.
' Pretty well, fays he^ but I'm glad I am got
* away.
' Whyfo ? faid I. No bodyoffer'd to detainyou,
* I thought the Do6i:or fpoke very civilly to youj,
' and I'm fure he did fo to me.
' hy^ fays he^ he did fo, and I had a mind to
' have ventured once to ftay all Night, but I am
^ heartily glad I didn't 5 I fhould have been fright-
' ed out of my Wits, if I had feen the Devil.
* Why, 1 can aflure you, that he fays pofitively^
* he has nothing to do with the Devil, and if youi
* had feen any Appearance, it would have not beeni
' an evil Spirit, or Devil, but a good Spirit 5 that itJ
* would have come to render you Service, and doi
* you good, rather than have hurt you, and that
' you would have had no need to be frighted.
' No matter for that, fays he^ all Spirits are!
^ Devils to me i if I had leen a Spirit, or an Ap-«
' parition, all he could have faid to me, would
* not have perfwaded me to believe it had not beeni
* the DeviL
^ Why, would you not have believ'd the Do6lor,
* if he had told you fo ?
' No, fays loe^ nor a hundred conjuring Dodorsf
* mpre, not I.
« Buti
of M A G I C K. 307
* But what is it you go to him for then ? faid L
* If you won't believe what he fays, what fignilies
* your going to him? you had better have kept it
* to your felf, and never have troubled him.
' Nay, that's true, faid he^ and that was the rea-
* fon I was loth to leave my Cafe with him.
* But you have left it with him, fays /, han'c
* you?
' Yes, fays he^ and let him make the bed of it,
* and the word of it, I never intend to go to him
* again.
' What, fays I, won't you go to him for an An-
' fwer?
' No, not I, faid he^ I have enough of him.5
come away. I am fo frighted already, I am almoll
dead} don't you fee what a Sweat I am in? for all
'tis fuch cold Weather, the Sweat runs down my
Face in Drops.
' Why, what d'ye fweat fornovr? faid I. You are
far enough out of his way here, an't you?
* No, no, fays he. Why, if he has his Devil
within Doors, d'ye think he has not his Devil
without Doors too? Why, all the while I have
flood here for you, I fancy every Tree is a Man,
and every Man a Shadow, and every Shadow a
Spirit.
' You fee, faid /, 'tis Evening, and the Light
* begins to be Dusky, and fo you fee double:
' Why, fure you an't fo frighted as you feem
' to be?
' Indeed I am, fays he^ I don't know what's the
* matter, I don't ufe to be foj I us'd to laugh
* at People when they talk'd of feeing Apparitions,
* and being frighted with Spirits.
' Well, well, you'll come again, for all that,
* faid /, I warrant you.
' No, if the Devil catches me there again, 111
* forgive him, fays he,
X % You
3o8 A S r S T E M
' You don't know your own Mind^ /aid L Wh/f
' he will anfwer all your Queftions.
' Ay, fo he fhall, when 1 come again, /ays he,
' I warrant you'll come again to him, /ays /,
* for an Antwer to-morrow.
' Nay, /ays he^ I am not appointed till Friday. -
' Ay, fays /, *tis no matter for that, I dare fay
* you won't have Patience to ftay fo long. Why,
* you'll dream of it all Night : I don't doubt but
' you'll be with him again alfo, for Satisfa-
* ftion to your Enquiries > 1 know you han't the
* Patience, tho' I don't know your Cafe.
' You may fay what you vj'iW^ /ays ^^,but I aflurc
* you, I'll go near him no more.
* This kind of Difcourfe held us to a Town
* hard by, where we lodg'd that Night, for it was
* too late to go any farther. And in the Morning
' I happen'd to over-fleep my felfj For, in fhort,
* my Head ran fo much upon the Doftor, and his
' invifible World, that it kept me awake almoft all
' Night •, fo that in the Morning, when I got up,
*
'twas near ten a Clock.
' When I call'd for my young Man, the Mafter
'
of the Houfe told me he was gone. Gone ! faid
' I : what, and never flay for me, nor to fpeak to
* me?
* Nay, Sir, fays the Man of the Houfe, I bc-
* lieve he is mad. Why, he has made fuch a Noife,
* and a Difturbance, he has frighted all the Houfe j
* two of my People have been fain to fit up with
* him all Night j he fays he has feen the Devil
'
Seen the Devil ! fays I : does he know the Devil
' when he fees him ? I believe he never faw him in
' his Life. 1 fuppofe it was fome Dream.
* Nay, /ays the Man^ I don't know how he
* Ihould fee the Devil here, I'm fure my Houfe
* is not haunted, I fancy he has been at Dr. Bore*
* man's lately.
\ Dr.
of M A Q I C K.
* Dr. Boreman^ (fays I) who's that?
' O, Sir, fays my Landlord.^ did you never hear
* of Dr. Boreman? Why, he's the mofl famous
* Man in all this Country, he does a thoufand
* llrange things.
' What, y^j'j /, is he a Conjurer, docs he deal
* with the DeviP,
' I don't know for that, fays my Landlord^ I can't
* fancy he deals with the Devil neither 5 for he is a
* very honefl Gentleman, and does a great many
' good things. Folks that deal with the Devil don'c
' ufe to do any thing that's good.
' Pr'ychee, fays /, what good does he do ?
' Why, Mailer, fays my Landlord^ they fay, he
* lays the Devil^ when other Folks raife himj he
' can cure a Houfe when it's haunted. Here was
* a Houfe in our Town fo plagu'd with evil Spi-
* rits, that no body could lie in it 5 and when the
* Do6bor was fcnt for, he went and fat up all Night
' in it> what he did there no body knows, but he fo
* frighted the Devil to be fure, that the Houfe has
* never been haunted any more fincej and the poor
* Wenches are fo afraid of him all round the Coun?
^ try, that they dare not fee him.
' Why, fays /, what does he do to them?
* Why, Sir^ fays he^ a poor Girl can't let a youn^
* Fellow kifs her, but the Doder will Tell j and
* if they prove with Child, he'll tell the Father of
* it prefentlyj nay he'll difcover all the little
'
whorcing Intrigues in the Country. Now, Ma-
* fter, adds he^ this is not Devil's Work j
you know
* the Devil didn't care if they were all Whores,
* not he.
' That's very true, indctd^^ fays /j but what then
* mud the Do6tor be call'd ? is he a Magician?
' 1 fuppofe he is, Mafter, fays he^ tho' I don't
* know what that means. But he charms Folks,
J
gnd fets Spells, and a young Fellow dares not
^ I [ come
,o A S T S T E M
^ come near an honefl: Girl, for fear of him. Why,
^ they fay, he drew a Circle the other Day round
' a young Lafs's Bed that was fufpedted 5 and when
* the Fellow, that they thought had to do with
* her, came to her, truly he could not get away
* till the Do£l:or was fent for to releafe him.
* And do you believe all this? faid /.
* Believe it. Sir! fays be. Why, all. the Country
* believes it, and the young People are kept in fuch
* Awe by it, that I don't think there will be one
* Baftard got this Year, no, not in twenty Parifhes
' hereabout; and that's very hard, Mailer, fays
' he, this War time too, when the King is like to
* want Soldiers.
' This Difcourfe was diverting, but ftill I wanted
^ to hear of my Man. I was loth to go back to the
* Doftor to feek him there 5 fo I was oblig'd to go
^ away without him.
Thus far I have entertain'd you with my Friend's
Relation, as I had it from him in a continu'd Dif-
courfe, and this laft Part is merry enough; nor is ic
more than I have heard by many other Hands, I
mean of the Dodor's Exploits; and particularly
'twas certainly true of him, that he kept all the
young People, I mean the wicked part of 'em, in
Awe; whether by Spells or Charms, and what thofe
Spell or Charms were, that I could never come to
a Certainty about.
The Story of his perfwading a young Fellow and
his Wench to get both into her Smock, and that
when he was in, the Do6tor fet his Spell upon him,
fo that he could never get out till the Do6tor was
fent for to releafe him ; and that he would not re-
leafe him till the Fellow oblig'd himfelf to marry the
Girl ; this Story, I fay, is fo firmly believ'd all o-
ver that Part of the Country, that no body doubts
of it.
But:
of M A G 1 C K. 3 1
E
But to come back a little to my Friend, and the
Story of the young Fellow that was with him,
which I fhall give you now in a more fummary
way, it being too long for my Work 5 The Short
of the Cafe was this : The Fellow being heartily
frighted, as you have heard, was no fooner got to
Bed, and fell faft afleep, but he dreamed that the
Do6tor came into his Chamber and to his Bed-fide,
with two Devils or Spirits with him > that he was
at firll fo terrified, that he was not able to fpeak j
but that the Doftor fpoke kindly to him, and bad
him not be afraid, for that here was a good Angel
come to him, to give him a full Anfwer, happy,
and for his Satisfadtion, to all his Difficulties > and
that he had nothing to do but to hear and receive
his Meflage, and be eafy 5 and that upon this, the
Spirit advanced clofe to the Bed-fide j but that he
cry'd out, and refufed to hear him j at which the
Do6tor fpoke angrily to him, and faid, Well, fince
you refufe the Advice and Direction of a good Spi-
rit, we ihall leave you to the fame difturbing Devil
which pofixfs'd you before: and upon this the
Do&or and the good Spirit vanifiied out of his
Sight, and an ugly frightful Devil remain'd in the
Place, which grinn'd and threaten'd him in a ter-
rible manner, but fiid nothing to him : that the
Horrour of the laft Spedire frighted him fo terri-
bly, that he waked out of his Sleep, knock'd up
the People of the Houfe, and told them the Devil
was in the Room, and, in a word, difturb'd the
whole Family 5 the Heftier and a Maid-Servant
fat up with him, but faw nothing > and in the Morn-
ing as foon as it was light, he took his Horfe and
went away.
As the Dodor had told my Friend, and as he faid
to the young Man, fo it wasj for being terrified to
the laft Degree with this courfe Appearance, away
he went to the Doftor's Houfe in hurry enough.
X 4 Ic
iz A S Y S T E M
It happened that whwi he came to the Houfc, the
Doctor was at his Door, fpeaking to fomcbody that
he was juft difmiffing, and the Party went away
juft as the young Man came up.
* Well, fays the Dodfor^ what's the matter now ?
^ why, I did not bid you come till Friday.
^ O Sir, fays the young Man^ but let me fpeak with
« you a little upon another Occafion that has hap-
^ pen'd fince,and I'll wait upon you again about
^ t'other Bufinefs on Friday^ as you appomted.
^ Come, come m then, fays the Do6lor^ I believe I
^ knov/ your Bufinefs 5 I warrant ye you have been
^ dreaming fome frightful thing or other to-night:
* what, have you fcenthe Devil in your Sleep? you
* had e'en as good ha' let me have fliewn him
^ you.
' Why fo you have, Sir, fays he^ han't you?
^ pray have not you been abroad lo-night?
^ Bihxo2idi^ fays the DoBor^ what do'ft thou mean
f by that? I am but juft out of Bed.
^ Why, Matter, y^j'j he^ han't you been at fFrcw^
^ tham to-night?
' At Wrootham! why, thou art mad 5 I tell thee I
^ am but juft up.
^ It's no matter for that,y^ji the Man^ fill faring
^ and wild'y I am fure I faw you there, and fpoke
^ to you, and you to me.
^ Come Friend,y^^j the Doctor^ I fee you are frights
5 ed,and you have dreamt wakings you have dreamt
^ of the Devil^ or of Spirits, all Night > why, thou
^ art not come to thy felf yet : come, let me know
^ the whole Story.
'
Nay? Sir, fays the young Man^ 'tis a plain Cafe
^ you know the whole Story already, as well as I.
* Not ^ Word, not l/fays the Do^or, I affure
^ you.
' Why, Sir,y^;'y he^ han't you told me the very
5 Qafe^ Jian't ypij told me I have been dreaming
§
of
of MAGIC K.
of the Devil^Tindken the Devil? how can you fay,
you know nothing of it ?
' Tru\y^ fays theDo^ior^ any one that faw what
a Fright you were in laft Night, without the
leafl Reafon, and fees how bewilder'd you look
now, might guefs you have been terrify'd in a
Dream, and that without any Witchcraft or Con-
juring in the leail: But, adds the DoHor^ what
iignifies telling me I know it already? If you
think fit to tell me the Cafe, well and good 5 if
nor, pr'ythec go about your Bufinefs, I defire not
to meddle with it.
' With that he bcgg'd the Doftor's Pardon, and
told him, if he did not know his Cafe already,
he hoped he would not be angry with him for
what he had faid, at leaft he was fure he would
nor, when he had told him. So he gave him the
whole Story at large as I have told it you, with
a great many more Particulars.
*
V<le%fays the Dodlor^ you fee there are good
and beneficent Spirits in Being, who are willing
to relieve and extricate us out of Difficulties, ac
lead by their good Counfel and Advice 5 and if thou
hadll had Courage and Patience to have heard it,
no doubt you would have had all your Doubts
explained, and your Queftions aniwer'd 5 and
would have had no need to come to me : But the
Devil^ who you fay flood behind, and who af-
terwards appeared terrible and frightful to you,
prevented your accepting the good Counfel, and
the Anfwers which you would have had from the
firfl Appearance : and as for my appearing to you,
depend upon it your Imagination fupplied that
Part, for I have not flirfd out from home all
Night 'y befides, a good Spirit might affume a
Shape and Appearance like me, that it might be
f X^ovG faimiliar to you,
^ Bur,
3^3
314 A s r s r E M
' But, ^vc^fays the young Man, what mufl I do now ?
* if I have rejected this good Offer, it may be the
' fame good Spirit will not now refolve me, or do
' any thing for me.
' Perhaps it m^y^ fays the Z)d?(^^r, or perhaps I may
' obtain a Refolution for you 5 are you willing to
' flay with me now, by Day-light ?
' Ay Sir, with all my Heart 5 Til wait all Day,
* and all Night too now, if you pleafej for I am
^ fatisfied now, that you will do me no hurt.
' In fhort, the Fellow's Cafe was thus : (Take it
* in my Friend's own Words again 5) He was de-
* fperately in love with a young Gentlewoman in
' the Country, had courted her a long time, and
* gain'd her Good-will fo far at lad, that they had
^ agreed to be married j but on a fudden, fome
* other Obje6t had prefentedto herFriends, whohad
' a better Eftare than this young Man ; and he
' found his Miftrefs was at iirft kept up from him
;
^ and at laft, that tho' flie was at Liberty, (he was
* grown cold and indifferent to him, and he was
* half mad with the Difappointment : That after
' this flie feem'd a little kinder, and told him the
' Reafon of her Coldnefs j but after all that, ano-
* ther thing perplexed him, and that w^asj That
' three Nights together he dreamt that he faw a
' Neighbouring Gen^leman kiffing his Miftrefs, and
' in downright Englijh^ lying with her.
' This laft tormented him, and he was fo per^
' plex'd between his Love and his Jealoufy, that he
* could not reft 5 to this was to be added, that tho*
^ his Miftrefs was kinder to him than before, yet
^ her Father had given him a poficive Denial, and
^ he knew not what to do 5 and for a Diredion in
' this Difficulty he went to the Cunning Man.
' Upon thefe things, the Dodor, after all the
' intervening Circumftances which have taken up
^ your time, gave him this very good Advice > whe-
4 ' thcr
of M A G 1 C K. 3 ,
J
ther by his Art, confulting of Spirits, or by what
other Method I know not, but he delivcr'd it to
him in this Form, or to this Purpofe.
* Friend, fays the DoUor^ the Intelligence whi^ch
I have had relating to thy Affairs from the invi-
fible Regions, and by the Aid of thofe good Spi-
rits which thou art fo afraid to receive it from,
is very kind and favourable to thee, if thou arc
difpofed to hearken to good Advice.
' The young Woman that thou art fo deeply in
love with, is not diflioneft-, thofe Dreams thou
hadft in Prejudice of thy Affection arc injurious,
and proceed from the grinning, angry Spu" t,
which, as thou faidfl, appeared to thee in thy laft
Night's Difturbance ; However^* it would be
wifely done, if thou wouldft withdraw thy Af-
fe6tion from this Objeft, for I am well affured her
Parents, who are refolved to difpofe of her another
way, will never favour thee> and if thou takeft
her againft their Confent, will neither give thee
Portion or Bleffing, nor will thy Marriage be
happy.
' Ask me not by what Rules I obtain this Infor-
mation; quiet thy Mind in the view of other
Offers which may prefentj preferve thy Virtue
and Temperance 3 there feems fomething in View,
tho' yet at a Diflance, which fhall be more to
thy Satisfa6tion even than this, had it gone for-
ward; and I fee a Light of moderate Happine(s
glancing towards thee from a remote Part, inti-
mating that thou {halt be very happy, and live
comfortably, if the Exercife of a patient and quiet
Temper prevail over Raihnefs and Paffion ; but if
the latter prevail, expc6t Mifery and diilrafted
Circum fiances may be thy Lot.
* The Yourh went away better infcruded than
I fhould have expefted from an Art which I
have fo very bad an Opinion of; But this
« Dr.
3
i6 A S Y S T E M
' Dr. Boreman was a ftrange Man, according to all
' the Reports of the Country about him, and did
' abundance of things, even by the Methods of
* his Art, which carried a Face of Good with
* them, as is faid before, Pag. J09 j if it was
* delufive and came from the Devil^ it was fo
« much the more dangerous, as it came covered and
* coloured with a Mid of Virtue, and a religious
* Charader, and with a Mouth always full of a
* lofty Cant, as if talking from a divine Oracle,
* and dircded by Spirits always employed for the
* Good of Mankind in general, and to do Afts of
' Charity and Beneficence to afHifted or perplexed
* Perfons in particular.
Thus far from my Friend who ccnverfcd with
Dr. Boreman : He gave me feveral other Accounts
of him, which, notwithftanding all the good things
pretended to, and the fine canting Words of the
Do6lor, convince me ftill that he mud have hacj
fome unlawful Converfation with fuch Spirits or
fuch Beings as I fhould flill call Devils : That he
ufed Spells, and Charms, and Familiars > that he did
not difown the Appearance of Spirits to him, af-
fuming vifible Bodies, was, it feems, well known j
and that he had feveral Books of Magical Expcri-
ments 1 have heard it alfo well atteftedj whether
there were any wicked Magical Performances in
thofe Books, or not, 1 cannot tell.
It is true, or elfe general Report mud lye mofl
unufually, that he did perform feveral flrange things j
yet they fay he was never known to do, or dire6t the
doing any Mifchicf, or to encourage any injurious
thing: It was ufual, as they report of him, to fct
Spells for the Country People for the preferving
their Cherry-Gardens from being plundered, and
their Orchards from being robb'd : Take fome of
the Tales which pafs for creditable, as follows.
That
of M A G 1 C K. 317
That three young Fellows being gotten into an
Orchard, which I fuppofe was under his particu-
lar Care, he caufed a large Bell to hang to the
Heel of their Shoes behind, like a Hcel-fpur, by
which they alarm'd the Houfe and raifed the Peo-
ple, who furrounding the Orchard, took them all 5
when they were taken, the Bells being to be puU'd
off, could not be feen, and yet the Sound of them
was heard all the Way they went to the Juftice
of the Peace, till he committed them, and then
ceafed.
Another time, fome Boys being gotten into a
Cherry-Garden, and [one of them being up a
Cherry-Tree, he made the Boy fee a great Maflif
Dog fitting at the bottom of the Tree, waiting
for his coming, looking him full in the Face, and
grinning and fnarling at him if he ofFer'd to ftir j
fo that the poor Boy not daring to come down,
was oblig'd to fit in the Tree 'till he cry'd out
for Help 5 by which means, the People of the
Houfe came and found him in the Tree 5 and
as foon as they were come, he could fee no more
of the Dog, neither could any body fee it but
himfelf.
The Methods he took with lewd People of thofc
Times, were, it fcems, exceeding many, and fuch
that, as the Landlord told my Friend, the young
Wenches Hood in awe of him, and were terrified
with the very Name of him.
No petty Thefts but he would difcover them,
even after they were committed 3 and if we may
believe common Fame, if People's Cattle were gone
aftray, he would tell them which Way to look for
them. Whether he could ha' told Saul how to find
his Father's AfTes, I cannot fay ; But I dare affirm
he could not have told him of the Kingdom, as
Samuel did.
And
5i8 A S r S T E M
And yet this Dr. Boreman^ as they fay, would not
fufFer any fuch thing as a Witch to live in the
Country, but cxpofed and dete6i:ed them on all oc-
cafionsj and the wicked Spirits on allj occafions
fled from him, as was reported of the Houfe which
they faid was haunted.
How to reconcile this to a Correfpondence of
Devils only, I cannot fay 5 and yet that Magick Powers
are communicated by good Angels, and by divine Ap-
pointment, I can fee no Reafon to fuggeftj but the
contrary fcems to be evident by the People of
Ephefus^ coming and bringing their conjuring Books,
and burning them, upon receiving the Chriftian
Faith by the preaching of the ApoftleP^^/, to the
Value of fifty thoufand Pieces of Silver.
There are abundance of Books upon this Subje£k
lefc by this Dr. Boreman-y and fome, as they fay^ with
Rules of Art, as they are called j but they are kept fo
up in private Hands, that I do not find they are to be
come at, by any means. The Works of the right
famous Enthufiaft Jacob Behemen fecm to be of the
fame kind, tho' fomething more refin'd, and lefs ra-
tional, being all in the Clouds and Confufion.
This Jacob Behemen took it very ill to be called
a Magician -, but he was a kind of a Vifionift. He
pretended to fee things invifible, and hear things
unutterable i and I might add, he feemed to have
fome Truth in it, for he publillied things unintelli-
gible.
His Writings are either Magick or Enthufiaflick,
or rather both, for I never met with many that
would pretend to underftand them, and never with
one that was the better for them 3 except it was
one very particular Man among his Admirers, who
declared himfelf to be the better for them, only,
and for that very Reafon, namely^ becaufe he did
not underftand them.
Now
€ M A G I C K. 319
Now that I may not fecm to pafs my Cenfure
raflily, I defire that my more intelligent Readers
will pleafe to reduce the following things into
Meaning, if they can, and favour us with the In-
terpretation J being fome particular Account of the
Life of this famous, religious Ingineer, for I know
not what elfe to call him, and the Titles of fome
of his Books.
* By the Differences and Controverfies in Rc-
* ligion which he knew not how to fatisfy him-
' felf in, he was ftir'd up and moved to ask^ feek
* and knocks that he might know the ^ruth.
* Upon which by the Divine Drawing and
' IVill he was in Spirit wrapt up into the Holy
^ Sabbath^ in which he remained feven whole
' Days by his own Confeffion in higheft Joy: Af-
' ter he came to himfelf, he laid afide the Folly
^ of Youth, and was driven by divine Zeal ear-
' neftly to reprehend impudent^ fcandalous^ and
' hlafphemous Speeches, and did forbear in all his
' Adions the lead Appearance of Evil, and con-
' tinued to get his Living by the Labour of his
* Hands, 'till the Beginning of the Sixth Seculum^
* which was the Year 1600, when he was the
' fecond time pofTefs'd with a Divine Light^ and
* by the Sight of a fudden ObjeEl was brought to
' the inward Ground or Center of the hidden Na-
' ture. O
' Yet fomewhat doubting, he went out into
* an open Field, and there beheld the miracu-
' lous Works of the Creator in the Signatures and
' Figures of all created things manifeflly laid open;
' whereupon he was taken with an exceeding
* Joy, yet held his Peace^ in Silence praijing GOD.
' But ten Years after, in the Year 1610, thro^
* the over-Jhadowing of the holy Spirit, he was
' a third time touched by GOD^ and renewed,
' and
310 J SYSTEM
' and became fo enlightened, that lead fo great
* Grace beftowed upon him fhould flip out of
' his Memory, and he refill his God, he wrote
' privately for himfelf (without the Help of any
* Books but the holy Scriptures) many Books,
' fuch as thefe
:
' A Book of the Signature of all things.
' A Confolatory Book ofthe Four Complexions,
' A Miflermm magnum upon Genefis.
' A Book of 177 Theofophick Queilions.
* Certain Letters to divers Perfons at certain
* times, with certain Keys for fome hidden
* Words.
Thefe learned Labours of this right learned En-
thufiaft may, for ought I know, be ftill extant >
they are recommended here for their extraordinary
Titles, and I believe are much about as intelligible
as the above Rhapfody of his Lifej to all which
1 recommend the curious Reader, if he has a mind
to embarrafs his Underftanding for an Age or two,
and come out as wife as he went in. The Speci-
men I think to be much of a Piece with the good
Dr. Boreman^ only with this fpecifick Difference,
wiz. that Friend Jacob carries us up into the Clouds
to underftand things there, if any body there may
be found to teach us 5 and Dr. Boreman was for
bringing the Clouds d«)wn to us, to teach us what
wc could underftand nothing of, when we were
taught.
Thus you have the two invifible and unintelligi-
ble Brothers together 5 whether they have left any
to carry on the unmeaning Magick, I know not.
There have been fome Pretenders to the Art who
have fucceeded the Dodor, but we fee nothing of
their Performance, at leaft not equal to his : Let
us look a little higher.
C H A P,
of M A G I C K 1%
C H A P. IV.
Of the T)o5irine of Spirits as it is under-^
food by the Magicians ; How far it may be
fufpofed there may be a7i Intercourfe with
Superior Beings^ without any Familiarity
with the Devil, or evil Spirits ; with <$
Tranftion to the prefent Times.
WHEN the fevcn Sons of Scava the Jew
pretended to Exorcifm, and to caft the
Devil out of a poflefs'd Perfon, the Devil taking it
in fcorn to be affronted by meer Pretenders, and
difdaining thofe that had no Authority to make
ufe of the Names which he was fubje6ted to the
Terror of, flew upon them, as the ^ext fays^ in a
'R.'SigQ^Jefus I know, 2nd Paul I know, fays he, buc
who are ye? and he never left them till they fled
away from him naked and wounded.
Now in what Name or by what Authority
Dr. Boreman or any of thefe Magicians difmifled
the Devil from haunted Houfes, chafed away Spi-
rits from the Places where they had made any Ap-
pearance, and kept the Devil in fuch Awe as is re-
ported, I cannot yet learn. Had the Dodor really
caft the Devil out of any Dcmoniack or poflefs'd
Perfon, and openly have exercifed fuch an abfolute
Power over him, and had it been well vouched
by Perfons of known Integrity and found Judgment,
"we muft then have believ'd that there were forac
good Spirits, fome fupcrior intelligent Beings,
whom the Doftor was fo favoured by, that know-
ing his good Intentions, they would affift him with,
their Aid againft the evil Spirits.
Y But
32i A S Y S r E M
But there are innumerable Difficulties in the
Way s the Words of our Saviour are cxprefs, that
this Kind goeth not out hut by Prayer and Faflings
and I do not read much of the Do6tor being a Per-
fon fo pious and fo religious as to exercife himfelf
that way at all 5 what he might do in private I
know not, but by all I can learn, he afted as by
the immediate Deputation of thofe good Spirits > in-
timating, that they brought him Intelligence, that
they acquainted him with the Circum fiances of
every enquiring Perfon \ that they direfted him
what Anfwcrs to give 5 that he was bur, as it
were, their Mcflengcr to evil Spirits, ordering
them to remove from fuch and fuch Places j that
they empower'd him by fpeaking fuch and fuch
Words, to charm and bind down fuch People as
he was direfted to operate upon, to fuch a Limit,
and within fuch a Circle of Ground.
But all this is ftill attended with this Doubt, 'viz.
That the Fa6t is not proved ^ let us fee therefore
what it is likely thefe good Spirits can do 5 and
what they really arc believ'd to do in any Part of
the World, for the general Good of Mankind.
That there are fome Appearances in the World,
and that of fuch Spirits as we may call Good, I
will not deny here, whether I grant it at prefent
cr no. The People in Norway tell you of a good
Spirit which at all times gives People Notice of
things fatal and deftru6iivei that it appears in a
flying Ball of a ytllowifh green > and is feen in the
Air, and will knock at their Doors before approach-
ing Ttmpefts and deep Snows, that they may fave
their Fiihing-Boats by hauling them up upon the
Shores, or into narrow fafe Creeks where they will
receive no Damage, and that on Shore they may
bring home their Cattle and fecure them from thofe
deep Snows and fevere Colds,
In
of M A G 1 C K.
in Laponia we are told of feveral Spirits which
they converfe with, not by way of Witchcraft and
Sorcery, but which they call their good Spirits, and
whom they confult with upon every urgent Occa-
fion for Relief and Ailiftancc, and who never do
any Hurt to them or to their Cattle. What the
Lapland Witches may do I know not, neither is ic
my prefent Inquiry.
Whether thefe good Spirits are not thofe, who
at the Requeft of fome certain People on all the
Coafts of Norway^ are faid to procure fair Winds
for Ships going to Sea, I will not undertake to
fay 5 But this I have upon llrift Enquiry learnt.
Firft^ That it really is fo in Fa6t 3 that upon go-
ing to certain People there, and upon paying them
a fmall Confideration (not above two Dollars) they
have been aflured of a fair Wind, exadly at fuch a
Time, from fuch a certain Point of the Compafs,
and to laft fo many Hours as has been agreed for.
Secondly^ That this has been agreed for when the
Winds have been, as the Seamen call it, fet in to
Mow Trade from a direcbly contrary Point, and for a
confiderable time before 5 and that when they have
gone away and declined the Agreement, they have
lain a long time without a fair Wind, till com-
plying j and again, that upon fo complying they
have never failed.
'thirdly^ That if you offer to defire, or give Mo-
ney to them to raife a high Wind, that is, a Storm,
they will be very angry, refufe your Money with
Difdain, and ask you in their Language, if you
think they deal with the Devil? that their Power
comes from a good Spirit, that never does any Hurt
in the World, but always does things kind and
good, and for the Benefit of Mankind.
All our Accounts, Hiftories and Relations con-
cerning the Northern Fares of Britain are full of
the Appearance of Spirits to the Inhabitants on
Y z fundry
314 A s r s r E M
fundry Occafions, and yet none of thofe Spirits arc
hurtful to them, or join in any hurtful things.
Either thefe Spirits inhabit in the Regions of the
Air, and fo are near us and take Cognizance of our
Perfons and Affairs, or they do not: if they do not,
what do they appear for? if they take cognizance
of us and of our Affairs, and yet do None Hurt,
then they are not Devils tho' Spirits, for the Devil
would certainly do the utmofl Mifchief he could j
on the contrary, thofe Spirits do eminent good Ser-
vices on fundry Occafions to Mankind 5 they muft
therefore be fuppofed at leaft to be good and bene-
ficent Beings, inhabiting fomewhere in the vaflEx-
panfe of Space which we call the Habitation of Spi-
rits, or the invifible World.
And this leads us by the Hand to that hitherto
unintelligible thing called the Second-fight > that is
to fay, that thofe good Spirits make themfelves
vifible to fome particular Perfons, and reprefent to
them the Form or Shadow of this or that Perfon
that they have a mind to have feen^ and even thofe
Perfons are reprefented not to do them Hurt, but
oftentimes to warn of approaching Mifchief, Death
or Danger.
To what purpofe fhould the Devil, who is never
guilty of doing Good, except with defign of Evil,
I fay to what purpofe ihould he foretell Evils a-
waiting this or that Man, who cares not what Evil
may or can befall him? to reprefent to him things
in Ef^gie, which fhallyet come to pafsin Reality? to
give him warnings of Evils in time, that he may
avoid it? This is not like the Devil, who is always
feeking Man's DeftruiStion. For Example:
The Second-fighted Highlander fees a young
Lady with three Gentlemen ftanding at her right
Hand, intimating that they fhould every one of
them in their Turn, be her Husband 5 and, however
unlikely, this comes to pafs : He fees the like
nuni'
of M A G I C K. 3ZJ
number of Women {landing on the left hand of a
Man, and he is direded by this to know they fliall
all be his Wives > the very Faces and Habits of
them are defcribed, and that fo as to have them
known J and this, tho' Teeming at firft ridiculous,
comes to pafs. A Second-fight Man travelling on
the Road, fees a Man on Horfeback at a great di-
fiance coming towards him 5 a great River being
between them 5 He fays to his Friend that was
with him, Ride forward to the River Bank and yon
may chance fave the Man's Life^ for he will pafs the
F$rd^ hut will he driven away hy the Water^ and
you may chance afjifi him to get out.
The Man to whom it was (aid, gallop'd up to
the River's Brink and calls to the Man on the
other Side, bidding him not come forward, for the
River at the Ford was newly rifen, and the Water
or the Current would be too flrong for his Horfe,
adding that he would be in Danger: / know the
Ford^ fays he, hetter than you^ mind your own Affairs^
and with that comes on and enters the River, and
was accordingly driven away with the Current,
and in great Danger 5 but the Man fent to wara
him was fo careful, that running on the other fide
of the River, he had an Opportunity to throw a
Rope to him, which at lafl he took hold of, and
with great Difficulty is drawn to the Shore: and
in that manner his Life was faved.
Now, tho' it is true, that the Intelligence
which this Man gave, was the faving the Man's
Life, yet they will have it, that this Man dealt
with the Devil: How elfe, fay they, fhould this
Man know that the other Man, a Stranger to
him, fiiould be in Danger ? But I anfwer, that
the Devil has no Knowledge of Futurity, and
therefore this could not be the 2)m/, or from the
DeviL
Y 3 Be-
3i(J A S Y S r E M
Befides, v/hy fhould the Devil tell the Man, and
warn him of the Danger of paffing the River?
-would he not much rather that the Man Ihould
have been drown'd, and as many more as he could ?
'Tis evident that in Witchcrafts and familiar
Spirits, where the Dentil afts by the Agency of the
Witch or Wizard, they are always fam'd for doing
Mifchief, prompting to all manner of Evil, torment-
ing the particular People they are empowered to
a<5t upon j murthering others, deftroying Cattle,
fetting Fire to Houfes, Ships, Stacks of Corn or
Hay 3 and in a word every thing hurtful, and every
thing hateful.
There is fome Reafon therefore certainly to di-
ilinguifh between thofe Spirits who arc kind, and
careful, and afliftant to Mankind, and thofe that
are mifchievous, deftruftivc, and declare themfelves
Enemies to the common Good : The Laft are evi-
dently of Hell, the very Nature of the Devil ap-
pears in all their Aflions,' and in the Ends and Aims
of all the Emiflaries they employ. What contrary
Judgment is to be made from contrary Effe£ts, re-
mains to be confider'd.
They both ad:, at leaft we underftand them to
a£t, by the Afliftance of fome invifible Spirit j or, as
it may be more properly exprefled, the invifible
Spirits a6t in them and by them.
As to Witchcraft and PofTeflion, that I think is
plain, and needs no Difcourfe upon it> 'tis known
to be all from an evil Spirit, or in plain Englifh,
from the Devil: There is no Room to difpute itj
the Wretches employed acknowledge it, and the
Hellifh things they do difcover it j fo we need
fay no more of that, nor is it the Bufinefs be-
fore me.
But who is it that afts thefe other forts of Peo-
ple? what Spirits inform them? what fecret Power
ppens their Eyes, to fee things hid from the reft of
of M A G 1 C K. 3 xr
Mankind ? I meet with many that have examined
into this Matter of the Second-fight, and who have
difcourfed with the People who are, what ihall I
call it ? I can hardly fay, BlelTed with it j neither
do they call it fo themlelves; and all that I have
enquired of about it, feem only to hold up their
Hands with a kind of Alloniftiment at the things
but can give no Account of it 5 they wonder at^
but do not underftand it.
To m.e 'tis mcTre a Wonder that it (hould not be
uiiderftood j for it feems to be nothing more or
iefs than this: That fuppofing an invifible World^
or World of Spirits, as we have already been dif-
courfing, and have in part granted j I fay, fuppofing
there are fuch Spirits, and that they inhabit the in-
vifible Regions 5 how near to or remote from us, we
know not, and that the Reality of their Exiftence is
certain, this Second-fight then is accounted for thus
:
Two Ways thofe Spirits find to converfe with
Mankind J be it for Good or Evil, that's a Queftioa \.
by it felfj f fay, they maintain an Intercourfe with \
Mankind two Ways.
Firfi^ By immediate, perfonal, and particular Con-
verfe with this or that Man, and by fuch particular
Methods as is only known to the Perfonj whether
by the Means of any Science, or Art, or otherwife,
we know not 3 this we call Magick, and the Man
fo converfing with them, we call a Magician.
Secondly^ Or thefe Spirits, a6ling at a diltance,
render themfelves vifible, and their Tranfadions per-
ceptible to fuch and fuch particular Perfons, and
on fuch Occafions as they think fit, and as they
find needful 5 without any fu"cher Concern or Ac-
quaintance with the Perfon, or communicating to
him or them any thing of the Reafon or Nature of
the Difcovery, or any Knowledge of the Perfon fa
making the Difcovery j and this is what v/e fooliih-
!y enough call the Second-fight.
y 4 Nor
328 A S Y S r E M
Nor is this Notion in any thing inconfiftcnt ei-
ther with Reafon or the Nature of the thing 5 the
Angel that flood with the flaming Sword in his
Hand was feen by the Afs of Balaam^ and not feen
by his Mailer. Our Saviour in his glorified State af-
ter his Refurre£lion was feen and converfed with
in the opened and freefl manner imaginable by the
two Difciples going to Emausj and yet they knew
not who it was} and as foon as they knew him he
became invifible to them again.
Now, fuppofe one of thefe invifible Inhabitants
defigns to make itfelt vifible, either to difcover
fuch or fuch an Evil at hand, to particular Men, or
to warn this or that Perfon of Mifchief attending
another 5 fo that he may immediately go and pre-
vent it : Can we think it difficult for that Spirit
to make itfelf vifible to this or that particular Man,
and not to another ? I think there is nothing flrange
at all in it.
A Second-fighted Man going towards a Gentle-
man's Houfe inBradalhin^ fees the Gentleman, towards
whofe Houfe he was going, riding on the Road
with a neighbouring Gentleman, whom he alfo
knew, attended with three Servants on Foot and
one on Horfeback, fix in all 5 then he fuddenly kcs
a Troop of Highland Robbers, forty or fifty in
Number, rufhing out of a Wood or fome other
Place where they lay in Ambufh, who furrounded
the Gentlemen, difmounted and robb'd them,
wounded the firll Gentleman in the Arm, and killed
one of the Servants.
The Man going forward to the Gentleman's
Houfe, juft in the Court or Entry before his Houfe
fees the Gentleman, with the other Gentleman his
Friend, mounting his Horfe to ride abroad, and the
Servants attending, juft three in Number, befides
the Gentleman's Steward on Horfeback.
He
of M A G I C K. 319
He immediately fpeaking to one of the Servants,
enquires which way their Mafter was travelling 5
they anfwer him, that he is going to Innerlochyy
upon fuch and fuch Bufinefs. Which Way does
the Laird intend to take? fays the Man. Such a
Gat^ fays the Servant. I befeech his Honour, fays
the Man, that he go not by that Gat^ (that is to fay,
by that Road) for if he does, he will fall into bad
Hands.
The Servant tells his Mafter, and he calls the
Stranger, and asks him what he meant by telling
him (o. Sir, fays he, I tell it for good, if your
Honour pleafc to hearken to it . For if you go by
that Gat^ (^mentioning the Road which his Servanc
had nam'd) you will fall in with the Robbers, wh3
haunt thofe Hills, and will be overpower'd and
mifchiev'd.
What, fays the other Gentleman that was to
go with him, mocking at the fecond-fighted Man,
are ye one of thofe Fool- Bodies (a Scots Expreflion)
that they call Seers? ha' ye been feeing a Vi-
fion this Morning? Pr'ythee, how many were they,
and what did they fay to you ?
An your Honour will gang, fays the Man,
gang your wa: But you will remember what I
have told you, when ye find it true.
The firft Gentleman anfvver'd, Were they a
Troop, fay you? Yes, and't pleafe your Honour,
fays the Man.
Well, well, fays the Gentleman, I fhall go an
a Troop of Devils were in the Way. So the Man
was flouted on all Hands, and went his way back j
the two Gentlemen went on, as they faid they
would, and were attack'd and robb*d 5 one Servanc
kilPd, and one of the Gentlemen had his Arm
broke with a Piftol-Bullet, and was brought back
the fame Day to his own Houfe.
What
330 A S Y S T E M
What Spirit it mufl: be, that could thus form an
Appearance of things that would come to pafs, that
we cannot determine 5 but fuppofing this Story to
be true in Fadt, as many fuch have been, this had
certainly one Token of a good Spirit in it 5 namely,
that it gave the Gentleman fair Warning to fhun the
Danger that awaited him, and as it were, fent an
Exprefs to him from the invifible World, which if
he had not defpifed, he might have efcaped, and a-
voidcd the Danger.
Now, had this been the Benjil^ if I have any
Notion of the Devil^ and of his Nature, as well
as Defigns, his Part would rather have been to have
fent an Agent of his to the Troop of Robbers his
Friends, to give them Notice, thai fuch a Gentle-
man, and fuch another with him, was coming up-
on the Way, and that in fuch a Place they fhould
be fure to meet and furprize them. He would have
been fo far from warning the Gentlemen of their
Danger, that he would have run them into it with
all the Artifice he was Mafter of5 and I will not
fay that he did not prompt the two Gentlemen a-
bove, to fcofFand flout at the poor fecond-fighted
Man, and make a Jeft of his Intelligence, as you
liave heard 5 that fo they might go on, and Hill into
the Danger they were warned againft, rather than go
another Way, and avoid it.
Some of thefe informing Spirts think fit to
appear themfelves to thefe fecond-fighted Peo*
pie, and not to others; and if the Author of
the Defcription of the Weftern Iflands of Scot^
land may be credited, v/ho alfo names not the
Circumitances only, but the Perfons, they have
not only abundance of thefe fecond-fighted People
there, but they have abundance of things difcover'd
to them in this Manner, and efpecially upon the ap-
proaching Death or Difaftcrs of any Perfon or Fa-
mily. It is true, the Examples he brings are moft
of
of M A G I C K, 331
of them trifling, but we have many Relations in
that Country generally received for Truth, which
are confiderable j and divers Examples are to be
had, which are new, and without Precedent 5
nothing is more frequent among them than that of
Foretelling the Death of any Perfon, fome Exam-
ples of which I can give of my own Knowledge.
I was at a Gentleman's Houfe in this Town, near
St. James's, and he happened to have fome Friends
invited to his Houfe that Day upon an Entertain-
ment, the Occafion of which I do not jufl: now
remember. Among the Guefts at his Table was an
ancient Gentlewoman, and her Daughter a fine beau-
tiful young Lady, and was I think to be marry'd
the next Week, or within a very few Days: There
fat oppoflte to her another Lady, of what Coun-
try I do not remember, but fhe was a Foreigner,
and I think was a Dutch Woman, but appear'd as
a Perfon of good Figure.
This Foreigner it feems came to the Gentleman's
Houfe, not as invited to the Entertainment, but
upon fome Bufinefs of Confequence; Dinner being
juft ready he ask'd her to flay, and told her they
would difpatch their Bufinefs afterwards, and fo led
her in among the Ladies.
After Dinner, the Gentleman and this Foreign
Lady withdrew to difpatch their Affair, which was
fomething relating to the Exchequer^ where he had
an Employe and in Difcourfe, fhe faid to him, Pray
Mr. who is that elderly Lady that fat op-
poflte to me? fo he told her the Lady's Nam? j and
that young charming Lady is her Daughter, 1 fup.-
pofe? fiiys fhe. Yes, fays the Gentleman Poor Lady,,
fays Jhe^ I am very forry for her, for that her Daugh-
ter is a mofl beautiful Creature indeed, and I fee
fhe is very fond of her, 'tis a fad thing! What d'ye
mean? fays the Gentleman. Why, lays fhe, the
young Lady won't live above a Foitniglit, and the
poor
33^ A S Y S T E M
poor Lady her Mother will almoft break her
Heart for her : I am very forry.
The Gentleman (who told me Story with his
own Mouth) wasextreamly furpris'datwhatftie faid,
and would fain have underflood it as if fhe jefted
with him > but (he affirm'd it ferioufly, and fliew'd
fo much Concern at it, that he could not carry it
off for a Jeft 5 then he ask'd her how fhe knew it?
I fee it upon her, fays ihe, I wifli I could fhow it
you, I tell you fhe is a dead Woman, all the
World can't fave her, for her Hour is come, ask mc
no more Queflions. My Friend told me the Story
immediately i the Concern about it had almoft
frighted him, and the Event anfwer'd it allj in a-
bout three Days the young Lady was taken very
ill, which turn'd to a Vomiting, and that to a
Fever, and fhe dy'd on the very fourteenth Day
afterward.
Another time walking in a Friend's Garden near
London^ there was a young Gentlewoman walking in
the next Garden, and there being but a low Wall
between, and a Mount on that Side where we
were, we could fee her walking with her Father
on one fide of her, and a Sifter on the other > faid
one Gentleman that was with me, Who is the mid-
dlemofl Perfon of thofe three ? we told him fhe was
the Gentleman's Daughter who walk'd by her.
Has fhe been fick ? faid he. Now it was true, that
the Lady had been very ill, and was come into the
Country for Air, and we told him how it was.
Well, fays he, the Air won't recover her, for fhe
will dye within a very few Days. I earneflly prefs'd
him to tell us how he knew it; he anfwer'd am-
biguoufly a good while, but as I prefs'd him with
great Importunity, he told me ferioufly : Said he,
you cannot fee it as I do, I wifh I could not fee
things fo as I do, but her Face now at this Inflant
i$ to me exa6rly what you call a Death's Head-,
that
of M A G 1 C K. 335
that is, the Skeleton of a Head or Scull, and no
other.
The thing was right, and the young Woman
died within a Week after.
But to return to the Subje6l: : As thefe Spirits wc
may fuppofe can make any Reprefentations of things
vifible, and that to whom they pleafe, fo it may be
fuppofed they can make themfelves vifible alfo,
when, and to whom they pleafe 5 and this is at-
tefted by many WitnefTes, and evidenced by feve-
ral differing Circum(lances, of which I have by En-
quiry met with a great many in my time.
In the Highlands and Iflands, they tell you of a
Spirit, which the poor ignorant Country People
call Browny^ or Bronne^ as it feems was the more an-
cient Name they gave it, as the Norwegians have
another, whom they call Bielke.
Much Pains has been taken to examine who this
Browny is, and whether he is a good Spirit or a
badj but mod of the Stories I meet with are fo
fabulous, or trifling, or ridiculous, that I rather
take the Appearance to be imaginary than real;
If it be real, it muft be fome low-priz'd Spirit,
employed among the meaneft of People, and on the
meaneft Occafions, fcarcc worth naming, and yet
moft of them rather for evil than good.
It is worth obferving, that where thefe frequent
Appearances are, and thefe fecond-fightcd Fifioniftsy
we rarely hear of any Pavv^-wawing or Conjuring,
no Black-Art-Men, very little Magick. I fancy ic
feems rather, that what Bufinefs thefe invifible A-
gents have to do, and what Intercourfe they carry
on with this World, they generally do it them-
felves, they are not manag'd by Art, or calPd in to
the Aid and Afliftance of the Artifls. But as they
make things vifible at Pleafure, they want no A-
gents, they do their own Bufinefs their own way 5
and in a word, they have no Magicians among them,
none
334 A S r S T E M
none of thofe they call Cunning Men, or that con«
fult with the invifible World in behalf of others;
it fcems they have no Occafion of fuch Men, they
are not fo fiinciful, or over-run with Vapours, as
we are in this Part of the World.
Yet they have fome Remains of Sorcery among
them too, and particularly they are flrangely ad-
di6lcd to Charms. In the Ifles of Orkney they ufe
a Charm to flop Bleeding, and they tell you it is
as effe6lual as the ftrongell Stiptick, be the Bleed-
ing outward by a Wound, or inward by any break-
ing the VcfTcls, Wrench or Strain, or by Diftem-
perj and for this they have particular People, whom
they call Charmers. What Part of the Black Art or
Magick thefe Charmers pra6tife, I know not, but
it fecms they perform it at a Diftance, and without
feeing or knowing the Perfons j only the Perfon
who is in Diftrefs by Bleeding, fends his Name to
the Charmer, and he fends the good Spirit he talks
of, and (as the Magicians fay) converfcs with, and the
Bleeding is ftopt ni a Moment. This the Charmer,
as they call him does, by repeating the Name of
the Perfon affli6led, to which he always adds
fome barbarous unintelligible Language of his
own-, upon repeating which he fends the Meflen-
ger away, and the Cure is perfeded. Now this is
much the fame with the Magick of other Pra6li-
fcrs j for this they tell you is the Charmer's fpeaking
to the good Spirit he converfes v;ich, who imme-
diately flyes invifible to the poor diftrefs'd Patient,
and works the Cure.
Thefe Charms are alfo of feveral Kinds, and for
fevcral Purpofcs^ fome to cure humane Bodies,
fome to cure Cattle, fome to quiet great Dog^ and
prevent their falling upon People as they go along,
and fome perhaps to prevent their Barking when a
Thief may attempt the Houfe; that Part I fup-
pofe they won't call the Work of a good Spirit.
They
of M A G I C K. 335
They have fuch a Variety of thofe things in other
Parts, as well as in our own Country, and efpeci-
ally in Ireland^ in Norway^ and in fome Parts oF
Germanyy that it would be needlefs to give an Ac-'
count oF them, and a little out of the way too in
fuch a Work as this.
But I muftcome a little nearer home. ThefeArts
are ufed more on this fide the World, as the ren-
dring darker things vifible, feems to be more the
cafe on that fide 5 and as I am enquiring rather
what our Magicians pradlife without the Devil,
than what the Devil or any other Spirit pra6tifes
without the Magician ^y I come to bring all thefe
things down to your immediate Underflanding.
We have been diving into Myfteries long e-
nough, and been ferious till perhaps you are tir'dj
for a little grave doings wearies us at this time of
day > let us fee if the Subje6t will afford us any
Diverfion. The Age is witty beyond mcafure, and
not a little wicked too> but whence is it that we
have no Magick in our Wit? It is not many Years
ago, fince the fprightly Part of human Wit re-
lifh'd with Mankind, and Men were bright by mcer
Jnfpiration> the good Spirits, if fuch there are,
didated things of Value to the Minds of Men, they
convers'd in the very Confines of the myflerious
World, but without Raptures and Agitations;
they had the Sublime without the Infernal, the
Humid without the Horrid j they had the Fire
without the Brimftone; they could laugh without
Baudy, and jeft without Blafphcmyj talk without
Buffoonry, and vote without Bribery j write with-
out Pedantry, and read without Party.
But now, blefs us all ! how ftrangely is the
Courfe of things chang'd> what with good Spirits
and bad Spirits, we do every thing without Spirit y we
are all Magick, and no Witchcraft, the Z)m/ with-
out the Devil f wc laugh without a Jefl, and jeft
with-
33<? A S r S T E M
without Wit; we write without Senfc, and read
without Tafte; we are lewd beyond Whoredom,
and devout beyond Religion; we preach without
Doftrine, are religious without Principles; pray
without Doxology, and worfhip without a God.
Now, how fnall we do to find out the Magick
of all this ? 'tis certainly brought about by fomc
llrangc Fafcination, fome Devilifme that we feel,
and don't fee. Here mufl be fome Intercourfe be-
tween us and the invifible World, tho' I doubt 'tis
fome of the darker Part of it. Every Man feems to
me to have his Daemon of a particular kind, pro-
per and feparate to himfelf, by which he [cither go-
verns himfelf, or is governed, I know not well
which to call it ; and fo he walks on in his own
way, follows no body, and leads no body; but is
a Principle, a Dodrine, a Governor, nay a God to
himfelf.
Formerly the Broachers of Errors, and particular
Notions, had always their Difciples and Followers;
and they judged pretty much of the goodnefs or
badnefs of the Dodtrine, whether Religious, Philo-
fophic or Moral, by the Number and Quality of
the Followers they had; even the Jews did thus
of our Saviour, Have any of the Elders or of the
Rulers believed on him ?
But now, God fave us! fo many Men, fo many
Maggots, 'Tot Homines^ Tot Di...s; every Man
broaches his own Opinions, preaches them to him-
felf, is his own Convert; his Soul is the Difciple
of his Fancy, and his Senfes the Pulpit of his Hu-
mour ; as for other People, as he teaches no body,
fo he fcorns to be taught by any body, and bids
God da... him, if he had not rather go to the
Devilj than not go to Heaven his own way.
Thus we live in a general Difguife, and like the
Mafquerades, every Man drefTes himfelf up in a par-
ticular Habitj not two appear a-Iike in the whole
Place J
'of M A G I C K. 117
Place; and that the Simily may be perfed, the
Humour carries it on to the minutefl Part; as the
Habits are not alike, fo they are always particularly
remarkable for being diredtly oppolitc to the Per-
fon they cover > the Phlegmatic drefles a Jo, San^
guine^ the Sober mimicks the Drunkard, theChafle
chufes to dre(s a la Courtifane^ the Atheifl puts on
the Religieufe^ the Chriftian has the Veft and
the Turban, and the Quaker a Habit from the
Theatre.
In the Appearance of the fuperior Part it is
much the fame : Mimickry, and oppofitc Capacities
engrofs Converfation ; the Beau turns Polemic, the
Aiheift difputes Principles, the A£l:refs praftifes
Modefty, and the Pedant panegyricks upon Wit:
Fools write Satyr, as Clowns teach Manner.<;; the
Fops are the Men of Weight; and fince, by Acci-
dent, Wit and Senfe appeared under the Title of
the Tattlers, the eternal Clang of Tea-Table
Tattle has rung the Changes upon Scandal, and
fct up for the univerfal Cenfors of Converfation.
And need we go any farther now for our Enqui-
ries after Magick? could things take fuch a Turn as
this, without a general Converfe with the World
of Spirits? will any Man tell me this could happen
by the Nature of things, or even by the Things of
Nature? No, no: invilible Operations are afted
from an invilible World; the Magicians are in the
right, all the great things they do could never be
done without an Intercourfe with a fuperior Rank
of Beings, be they Infernal, or what other Devils
you pleafe to call 'em.
Take a few bright Doings for Examples. Upon
what foot does the bright Lord lit every Morning
over his Chocolate, talking upon all the Works of
the Learned, himfclf Unlearned to a Scandal? And
how good-natur'd and well-manner'd is the Age,
that no body laughs at him till he is gone, or for-
Z bears
35? A SYSTEM
bears it afterwards? How wife are his Remarks!
how juft his Refle£tions! when he talks fo much,
and underftands fo little, that it may be truly faid,
no wife Man talks like him. In which however his
Lordfhip had this Happinefs, that he chofe to take
it for a Compliment, inftead of a Satyr.
S'wT'imothy Title-Page is an admirable Gentleman;
his Knowledge of the firft Leaf of every thing,
compleatly covers his Ignorance of the Infide of
any thing. His juft Charader is fo true a Pi6ture
of the Age, that you need go no farther for a Rea-
fon why Nonfenfe bears fuch a Price, and the
Bookfellers Trade is fo much improv'd j feeing they
buy moft Books that read leaft, and that, according
to the famous Dr. Salmon^ the having a good Li-
brary makes a Man a Do6tor. However, Sir I'imo*
thy no doubt underftood the Names of Authors,
and had as good a local Memory as to the Editions
of Books, as moft Men that could not read Latin.
Nor was he ever out in his Judgment, that I have
heard of, till an unlucky Linnen-Draper ask'd him
once concerning the Learned Author called {a)
Crocus upon Hinderlmds^ who the Knight prefently
own*d, but unluckily forgot that the Impreffion
was made in Germany^^nd that the Books came over
not in Quires, but in Rolls, from Bremen and Ham-*
hurgh.
The Happy, Miferable, Generous, Cynical,
Good-natured, out of Humour Bart. Sir —
•
would be approved by Somebody, if he was not
laught at by Every body > he might fometimes pafs for
pleafinr, if he was not always furly, andtolikefome-
thing, only that he difiikes every thing. He fets up
for a Cricick, with this unhappy Addition to his
ProfeiTion, that he alters every thing, and mends
( « ) Crocus tind Hioderlands are iroo particular [orts of coarfe Ger-
Bnany Limen, which art Imprted by the HamburgU Mtrchantst and are
kmvn to ivtry Draper.
nothing*
of M A G 1 C K, 3 3^
nothing. Howunanfwcrable a Demonftration Is this
extraordinary Genius of the Influence of the Invi-
iible World upon the Affairs of Mortals here ? fee-
ing if he had lefs than a hundred thoufand Devils
in him, he could never carry on the Pra6tice of an
univerfal Pedant, without being whip'd out of
Human Society for a Scandal to the very A B Cj
and, to turn the Poet's Words a little awry for him,
*' Fellows^ that ne'er were heard or read of^
*^ Would long ere this ha've wrote his Head off.
Roch, to Shadwel.
The Ladies afford us an infinite Variety, and to
infpeft their Share in the Magick of this Age's
Management, would take up a Volume by it felf^
In a word, they are all Magicians^ and 1 won't take
upon me to fay, that as Witchcraft, generally fpeak-
ing, has for fome Ages been engrofs'd by the Sex,
and the PofTellion chiefly lay among the Matrons j
that is to fay, that none but old Women were
Witches; So now the fame Sex feem to have en-
grolTed the facred Sciences, and the Magick lies in
ihort all among the Ladies. Who fhall enter into
the Defcription of it? The Magick of their Wit,
O how Subtle! the Magick of their Beauty, how
exquifitelyNew-fafhion'd! and the Magick of their
Tongues, how charmingly Loud ! not to (ay Sono-
rous and Mufical.
To make thefe Beauties of the Sex the more dif-
fufive in their brightefl Qualifications, and infi-
nitely more fo than was poflible in former Ages,
we have three new-invented Colleges of Wit and
good Manners, where the Ladies receive daily Ad-
dition to their Ordinary Acquirements 3 and which
give them infinite Advantage over the pail: Days of
their Anceflors, (Grandmothers) and in the fre-
quent Accefs to which they mult necefTarily
Z 2 excel
340 A S r S T E M
excel all that went before them. Thefe are the
Tea-Table, the AfTembly, and the Mafqucradej at
the firlt they learn to be Light-headed, at the
fecond to be Light-hearted, and if at the third
they don't learn to be Light-heel'd, the Defe6b
muit lie fomewhere elfe than in the laudable En-
deavours of thofe that fet them up in fo many Parts
of this ncvvly-reform'd Nation j whofe Endeavours
for the publick Good can never be enough com-
mended, either in Print or in Manufcript.
I have had fome Thought to enquire among all
the real Magicians of the Times, and efpecially of
the more Eminent Pretenders about Baldwin s-Gar-
dens^ White-CrofS'Alley^ Old- Street^ White-Chappely
&ZC. and to get Intelligence from the invifible
'
World concerning this Important Queftion } Whe-
ther any of the good Spirits or bad Spirits, the
white Devils or black Devils^ or whatever Spi-
rits they were which formerly infpir'd the Roche-
fievs^ the Dorfets and Drydens of the laft ^gQS^ are
yet in Being ? And if they are, what has been the Occa-
iion that they have withdrawn the Spirit of Poetry
from the Englifi World ? That not only the Fire is
extinguifh'd, and the genial Infpiration decay'd,
but that the rclifh of true Poefy is loft? That as
there is nothing perform'd that will bear reading,
fo no Readers that can tnfte a Perfomance! even
the exalted Merit of the greateft Men is fung in
Notes without Mufick, Lines without Meaning,
Words without Energy, Verfe without Poetry,
and Poetry without Spirit;
I w^onder fometimes that the great Men, or Man
rather^ who we fee daily Perfecuted by the horrid
Jingle (I think I Hiould fay Jangle) of their Rhim-
ing Expe6lants and Dependents, do not confider of
paying their Debts (I mean their poetical Debts) in
kind^ and give the poor verdfying Devils now and then
a Diftich (at Icall) in Ballance of their voluminous
Labours
:
of MAGIC K. 341
Labours : if they paid but after the rate of publick
Intereftjbut \\\xtt per Cent, it would at Icaft in time
reduce the Debt, and might \x\ the mean time lay
the Foundation of a good Sinking Fund.
If they do not think of this or fome other way,
(for Penlions will rather encreafc the Number, and
like Sweat-meats draw the Flyes about them) I fay,
if they do not think of fome fuch way, they m.ay I
think jullly fwear the Peace againft the AQailants,
and fafcly affirm that they go in Danger of being
Pancgyrick'd to death by *em. For in iliorr, fuch.
writing is little lefs in my Opinion than a poetical
AfTafiination, and the Minillers are in Danger of
dying the Death of Ediijard V. and being fmother'd
with Feather-beds.
Heavens deliver every honed Statefman from the
infupportable Burthen of Panegyrick, efpecially
where 'tis attended with two Negatives, want of
Money, and wane of Wit 5 the laft makes the firft
lamentable, but the firfl makes the lad unfufFerable>
the firft IS piteous^ the laft is pitiful-^ the firft is af-
flicting, the laft tormenting J the firft importunate,
but the laft impertinent : and as a wife Giver would
give any thing to be delivered from them, fo a wife
Receiver would rather decently ftarvc, than to re-
ceive at the Price of being a Plague to the boun-
tiful Hand, and of being relieved, as the unjuft
Judge reliev'd the Widow, to be rid of her.
As for the poetical Gentlemen themfelves, I
think it may be faid of them with refpc^t ito their
Magick, as was faid of a late Author of a Qua-
druple Performance with refpe61: to his Merit;
namely, that there might be fome in his Poverty,
but there was none at all in his Poetry.
In my Opinion, however, there is a great deal of
Magick or Black Art, or call it dealing with the
Devil if you will, that Poetical Dregs ihould re-
Z } gale
A s r s r E M
gale the Age. If they were fent to the Druggifts^
and fold there for Emeticks, or made up in
Lotions, and given for Glifters, I fhould not
doubt their effe6lual Operation: But that they
fliould be paum'd upon us for VVir, (By Jove^ and
all the Hell-born Clan of Deities!) 1 think the Au-
thors, like Coiners of Counterfeit Money, fhould
be drawn, hang'd and quarter'd, for High-Trcaibn
againft the Pvace of their Sovereign Lord King
Drama^ his Crown and Dignity.
Where's the Cadence, the Propriety, the Plot,
the Genius, not to fly any thing of the Wit, in any
one Play, written for thefe two, or three, or four
laft Reigns? The Drums and Trumpets of the
War, the Broad-fides of the Fleets at Barfleur and.
La Hogue^ together with the more terrible Cla-
mours of the Street Mobs, and all the l^ceteras of
Parties, Rabbles, Riots and Rebellions, quite (i-
lenc'd the Mufes, ftruck them Dumb, and 1 am
told they could never make any Mudck fince, no
not all Nine of them put together.
Now we talk of the Black Art, of Magick, of
raifing Spirits, of having an Intercourfe with fu-
perior Beings and the like 5 I think the Art of our
Days, the Magick of this Age, has been exercis'd
to lay the Spirits, not raife them s to fink the Devil
of Wit, not lift him up j and if they have any In-
tercourfe with the invifible World, it muft be among
the inferior Beings, not the Superior, if they know
any Degrees among the Seraphick Train: Certain
it is, the Impetuofity of our Wit has for fome
Years been all let off in Squibs and Crackers, and
fo like the leffer Volcano's of Lipary and Stromholo^
have given Vent to the Subterraneans of Sulphur
and Nitre, while the Quantity was moderate. Where-
as when the luxuriance of Wit over-power'd thofe
fmaller Eruptions, then Mount G'thello {jEtna) and
Vejfuvius roar'd aloud, and over-run all the Coun-
try
of M A G 1 C K. 145
try with a Torrent of liquid Fire. Where then is the
Fire which once flam'd in this Hemilphere! Thofe
Comets in Wit which blaz*d in thtir feveral Orbits
are difappear'd, and when the Revoluci-n of their
Spirits fhall be vifible again, what Aftronv>ri.er,
what Calculator can inform us? not all th^K^'jotuns^
ihtlVbiftons^ or Halleys in the Nation can foivc this
Difficulty.
What Magician now can bring us to an fntcr-
courfe with thofe departed Wits, or afTift us in ihe
bringing them to converfe with us ag^in? if chcie
is an Acquaintance with this World of Spirits, lee
us call upon the Sons of Art to exert their Ut-
moft, and bring thofe good ^Spirits again in play 5
and to reltore the Commonwealth of Wir, ih-it the
new-faihion'd Ribaldry, whic^ the World now rer
lifhes for Wit, and the Dogmatick, ^yhich^ upoQ
the ftri^left View of our other Performa.^ces, the
utmoft Perfection of them, may Tccciv th^^ir -iue
Cenfure, to the Satlsfaftion of all the true Matters
of common Senfc, and the due Mortification of the
voluminous Scriblers of the Age.
Pardort me then, from the Itrange turn of Affairs
in thefc Times of ours 5 I fay, pardon me rf> look
back again a little to the Conjurings and Black Arc
of the middle Ages of Time, efpecially among ihofe
of them who did not pretend to deal wirh ihe
Devil^ and it will prefently bring us to an u?ider-
flanding of things among our felves.
After the ancient Magicians had tir'd the World
with their Tricks, and the Devil began to fail them,
except to thofe who kept an immediate Convfpon-
dence with him by way of Familiar, there c.ime
up a new fort of Magick, as well as a new fort of
Magicians 'y the Cafe was this.
The People it feems began to difcover that the
Magicians having left off that ufcful and valuable
Study of Science, called the Knowledge ofNaru^e, the
Z 4 Improve-
344 A S Y ST E M
Improvement of Arr, and the Inftru61:ion of Man-
kind in Wifdom and Virtue, had turn'd their Hands
to a new and inferiour Study 3 that they confulted
Daemons and Evil Spirits, that they qualify'd them-
fclves by hellifhCorrefpondencesto do Mifchief, in-
flead of doing Good -, and that in fhort they dealt
with the Devil^ making themfelves the Terror inftead
of the BlelTing of Mandind.
When this came to be their Chara6ter5 no won-
der the People began to be afraid of them, to
Ihun and avoid them as a kind of Z)^i;/7j themfelves 5
fo that except a fev/, who kept up their Reputation
by a clofer and cunninger Manage, the People
withdrew their Reverence from i\\q Magicians^ till at
laft the Devil was fain to fliift Hands too, and adb
by other Inftruments, or he would have endangered
his Kingdom in the World.
So Momnbsj ijohen their Politicks grow Jlale,
Change Meafurcs^ and by Nouelty prevail.
Upon this Change of the BeviVs Meafures, he
frequently found Reafons to change fome of his In-
ftruments too, and thus from the Magi^ he turn'd
over to the Clergy 5 and fo, as 1 hinted in its Place,
the Augurs, the Aurufpices, and the Oracles came
in play.
Now it happened to Satan, as it has frequently
happens to other mighty Princes and Tyrants in
the World J that finding his Servants and Statef-
men ceafe to be Popular, ceafe to be the dar-
lings of the People, as they ufed formerly to bcj he
found alfo a neceffity to fhift Hands, difmifs his
Tools and Inftruments, and take up with others.
So Philip II. had, as was faid, eleven new Mini-
fters and Governors in the Netherlands "y but no
new Management ; if any of his Agents and prime
Minifters grew odious to the People, he valued
not difgracing them, recalling them, expofing
them,
of M A G J C K. 34J
them, and turning them out 5 but took care, that
when another Governor came, the Government
ihould be the fame. And when the Prince of Par-
ma, who by his Condu6t recover'd the whole Low-
Country PofTellions to the Crown of Spain, would
have prcferv'd them by his Prudence, when he had
gained *em by his Valour 5 the SpaniP.o Councils, which
were all for Tyranny and for Cruelty, chofe to
difcourage that gallant Prince, rather than not car-
ry on their old abfolute Dominion. So every
Governor there, if the People complain'd, was
fure to be rurn'd out, and yet the next was obliged
to purfue the fame Tyranny, 'till they were peti-
tion'd out, as others had been before them.
When Minifters of State
Ceafe to be popular, they know their Fate,
^he Crafty 'Tyrant has no more to do.
But facrifce a Favourite or two.
The Mohh are eaftly cajoVd, and then
He^ changes not the Mifehiefs, but the Men,
By this Method, as I fay, the Devil purfued his
Intereft in the World 5 When one Generation
grevi^ out of Ufe, out of Fafhion, and ftale, he took
to another > when the Augurs grew ftale, when the
Cheats of the Oracles were cxpos'd, when the
Priefts could no more predidt by the Entrails, he
fets his Wits to work to find out other Ways and
Means, for the carrying on his Game: a?^,
I. By a kind of Aftrological Magick, in which
he manag'd with a great deal of Subtilty and Art,
bringing the Stars and planetary Influences into
Plays and by an unpradis'd Subtilty, the Art was
then carried on with Spell and Charm, by Wordj cut
in Metals, and in Stones, divining by the Byril, by
the Amathyfl, by the Lullre of the Emerald, and
the Ruby, and by all the old Superflitions brought
into
34<^ A S r S T E M
into a new Rule of Praftice. This was call'd the
^TaUfmans', or the Sympathetick Conjuring-ftone.
It would be too tedious for this Work,
to give a long Hiftory . of the Delufions and
Cheats which the Devil put upon iMankind for
three or four hundred Years Pradlice of this kind
in the World, i fhall fatisfy my felf only to let
you fee, by way of Abrigment, what thefe Talif-
mans were, and what the Authors of them pre-
tended > take the Defcription of them, as colleded
from the bcft Authors, thus.
' T'alifmam^ or Muthalfans^ was the Name of cer-
* tain Magical Figures graved upon Stones or Me-
' tals, whereof the Anonymous Author of a Book,
* entitled, the "talifmans Juftified^ gives this De-
* fcription. The I'alifmans^ fays he, is the Seal, the
^ I'^igure, the Charadcr or Image of a Celellial
* Sign, Conftellation, or Planet, graved on a Sym-
* pathetick Stone, oron Metalcorrefpondent to the
* Star. The Effeds which were attributed to thefe
' Figures are altogether marvellous j 'tis faid, for
' Example, that the Figure of a Lion ingraven on
^ Gold, while the Sun is in Leo^ preferves thofe
* from the Stone that carry this Talifman about
' them> and that that ofa Scorpion made under the
* Sign Scorpio^ fecures from the Wounds of that
' Animal. For to give Beauty and Strength of
' Body, they grave the Figure of Fenus^ on the
* firft Face of Libra^ Pifces or Taurus: to purchafe
' Honours and Dignities eafily, they grave the I-
* mage of Jupiter^ that is, a Man having the Head
' of a Ram, on Silver, or on a white Stone 5. and
* he that carries this I'alifman about him will fee
' (fay they) furprizing Effefts : To be fuccefsful in
^ Merchandize and Gaming, they reprefent Mer-
* cury on Silver j to be courageous and vi6torious,
' they engrave the Figure of Mars on the firft
* Face o( Scorpio i to procure the Favour of Kings,
4 ' th^y
of M A G 1 C K. 347
they reprefcnt the Sun in Likenefs of a King, fit-
ting on a Throne, with a Lion at his Side, in
very fine Gold, in the firfl Face of Leo. In the
Number of 7'aUfmans are ranked the Palladium
o^TCroys The J^omari Bucklers calVd yf^cilia-y The
fatal Statues of Conftantinople^ for the Preferva-
tion of that City : The Statue of Memnon in
jEgypt^ which moved and gave Oracles, as foon
as the Sun was rifen : The Statue of the Goddefs
Fortune^ that Sejanus had, which brought good
Luck to thofe that polTcfs'd it: The brazen Fly:
Firgifs golden Leach, which hindcr'd the Flies
from entering Naples^ and dcllroy'd all the
Leaches of a Well in that City : The Figure of
a Stork, which Apollonius fet up in Conftantino-
ple^f to drive away thcfc Animals: The Sratue of
a Knight, which ferv'd that City as a Prefervativc
againft the Plague : The Figure of a Serpent in
Brafs, which hinder'd all Serpents from entering
into the fame Place 5 whence it happened, that
Mahomet^ foon after the taking of Conjiantinople^
having broken the Teeth of that Serpen:, a pro-
digious Number of Serpents came upon the In-
habitants of that City, but without doing them
any hurt, becaufe all their Teeth were broke, as
were thofe of the brazen Serpent.
' I'alifmans are diftinguilh'd into three forts, "jiz.
Aftronomical, Magical, and Mix'd : The Agro-
nomical are referred to Signs of Celcftial Con-
ftellations, which are ingraven with other Fi-
gures, and fome intelligible Charaders: The Ma-
gical have extraordinary Figures with Supcrftiti-
ous Words, and the Names of unknown Angels
:
The Mix'd are compos'd of Signs and barbarous
Names, but which are neither fupcrftitious, or
of unknown Angels. They bury them in the
Earth, or in the Squares of publick Places, or
they may carry them about them. Some have
^ believed
'348 A SYSTEM
believ'd that Jpollonius I'yan^us was the firft Au-
thor of the falifmans^ but others arc of Opinion
that the jEgyptians were the Inventers of them,
which Herodotus feems to infinuate in the fecond
Book of his Hiftory, when he fays, this People
having firlt of all given Names to the twelve
Celeftial Gods, did likewife engrave Animals on
Stones. The Inhabitants of the Ifland of Samo-
thracia made 7'alijmans with Gold Rings, which
had fron fet in them inftead of Precious Stones :
Petronius fpeaks of ir, when he fays, that l^rimaU
do carried a Gold Ring fet with Stars of Iron.
The Gods, which they caird the Gods of Samo-
thracia^ were thofe that prefided over the Science
of the Tali/mans^ which is confirmed by the In-
fcriptions of thofc three Alcars whcveo^ lertullian
fpeaks. Before the Pillars, faith he, there are
three great Altars, dedicated to three forts of
Gods, which they call Great, and Mighty, and
Strong, and which are believed to be thofe o£ Sa-
mothracia. JpoUonius makes mention of three
Divkiities^ to whom he joineth Mercury^ and re-
lateth the barbarous Names of thole Gods^ which
it was prohibited to reveal, (viz.) Axierus^
Jxiocerfo^ Jxiocerfus and Cafm'tlus^ which he fays,
are Ceres^ Proferpina^ Pluto and Mercury. The
Mgyptians^ from whom the greateft Part of other
People have learned the Secret of thofe Rings,
had alfo other 'falifmans for all Parts of the Body.
And perhaps 'tis for this that we find fo many
little Figures of Gods^ Men and Animals^ in the
ancient Tombs of this C'ountry, The mofl an-
cient Kaufmans are made upon Plants, Branches
of Trees, or Roots. Jofephus fpeaks of them in
the eighth Book of his Anriquitie?, and attributes
the Invention of them to Solomon. They ap-
ply, fays he, to the Nofc of the Sick poflefTed
by the Devil, a Ring, wherein a Root was fee
' inftead
of M A G 1 C K. 34?
inftead of a Stone: Solomon had taught it in his
Works. This Hiftorian fays, that he has even
feen the EfFe6ls> and that a Jew^ Eleazer by
Name, cured many pofTeffed in this manner, in
the Prefence of the Emperor Vefpafian. The an-
cient jEgyptians believed, that certain Stones cue
out into Beetles, had confiderable Virtues to pro-
cure Strength and *".-ouragc for thofe that carried
them about with them j becaufc, fiys MliarL-, this
Animal has no Female, and is an Image of the
Sun. They put likewife fometimes the Figures
of Frogs in "Talifmans^ and Pliny teftifies that if
we believe thofe that improve that Science, a
parcel of Frogs ought to be eftcemed more fig-
nificanc in a Commonwealth, than a body of
Laws. jEUan fays, that thofe of jEgypt took a
Reed, which preserved them from being devoured
by Adders or Crocodiles of the Nile^ and than
they are the Emblem of Wifdom and Prudence.
^zetzes relateth, that a Philofopher put a Stop
to a Plague at Antloch^ by a 'falifman of Stone,
wherein there was the Head of Charon graved.
Apollonius made ufe of the Figures of Storks and
Serpents^ and the ^Egyptians commonly made ufe
of the Figures of Serapis, of Canopus^ God of the
jEgyptians^ of the Spar- Hawk and Jfp^ againft the
Evils which might come from the four Elements,
Earth, Water, Air and Fire.
The modern T'alifmans are not fo curious as the
ancient, and we may know them by the Charadlers,
which are purely Arahick^ 'TurkiJJj^ or of other
Oriental Tongues. The principal Authors that
have treated on this Subje6l in the latter Age?, are
Camilli Leonardi^ who has writ the Mirror of
Stones. Geber^ Bacon^ and Paracelfm^ who have
treated of Atlrological Magick, and of the Sym-
pathy of Stones, Metals and Planets. Gaffard has
composed a Book on thisSubjcfti inridcd. Unheard-
' cf
5JO A S r S T E M
of Curioftties. And Jgrippa has treated of it in
his Occult Philofophy. Gregory of tours relateth^
that the City of Paris had been built under a Con-
ilellation, which preferved it from Conflagration,
Serpents and Mice 5 and that a little before the
Fire that happened in the Year fSS, they had
found in raking up an Arch of a Bridge, the two
talifmans Prefervers of that City, which were a
Serpent and a Moufe of Brafs. Some have de-
rived the AraUck Name Tali/man from the Greek
o-uvlse^^'^j which fignifles Prefervation. We will
not fpend time to fhew the Vanity of the 'Tailf-
Tnans^ for we live in an Age that is not much ad-
dided to fuch Superilitions.
But thefe things went but a little way, com-
pared to what followed J for now the Pagan Wor-
ship declining, the World began to fee with o-
ther Eyes j the Devil loft Ground every where,
and the Chriftian Religion fpread it felf infenfibly,
and in a furprifing manner, efpecially over all the
Eaftcrn and Northern Parts, as into /Ifia^ and into
Germany and France j and now it behoved the Z)m/
to take new Meafures alfo.
Nor was he at all at a Lofs, for he knew his
Method prefently, and that was to put on the
Face of Religion, rank in with the fanftifyed Part
of the People, to wit^ the Clergy, and draw them
into his Scheme, as he had done the Pagan Priefts
before.
Upon this he took up the Tonfure, fhaved him-
felf for a Monk, or a Monkey, which you pleafe,
drefs'd himfelf up in the Habit, put on the facred
Vcftments, and got prefently into Orders. The Popes
quickly fell in with him: Pope Sylvefter Il/gavehim
Inftitution and Indadion, and from this time for-
ward he quitted the Aftrologick, and fet up aa
Ecclefiaftic Magick in the World : The Succefs
has
of M A G 1 C K. 35
has been wonderful, beyond even his own Expe£ta-
tionj for it miift be confefledjwhen the Priefts firfl
began a Correfpondence with him, they out-flript
him in their Speed, for they run even before they
were fent. St. Francis and St. Ignatius out-did all
the Arts of infernal Magick that ever wer$ Known,
or in ufe in the World, and with his Affiftance did
more to eftablifh a Race of Inchanters and Church
Magicians in the World, than the Devil himfelf could
have expc6bed.
This ferved his Intereft effeftually on one Side
of the World, that is to fay, for Europe efpecially,
and all the Weftern World : And Confucius drew
out another Plan of Ecclefiaftick or rather Philo-
fophick Magick for him in China and Japan. But
he was ftill at a Lofs for all the reft of Jfia and
jifrica^ which we might then call the middle Part
of the World 5 and which at that time was ripe
for any kinds of Enthufiafm or Church Magick,
let it be almoft what it would.
Satan^ who always fees his Opportunity, and has
no want of Vigilance to lay hold of it, faw the
Occafi^^n, but could not readily find out a Handle.-
He could not prefently think of a Method, 'till at
length the indjjftrious Devil found out the Contri-
vance of fetting up the Unity againft the Trinity,
the Houfe of IjJomael againft the Houfe of Ifaac^ the
Race of the Bond-woman againft the Race of the
Free- woman 3 the Circumcifion againft the Bap-
tifmj and the Magick o^ Mahomefs Pidgeon to mi-
mick the Chriftran Dove.
Having thus fertled the Scheme, he found out a
Tool fit for his Purpofe> a fierce ignorant Arabian^
bold, fubtle, cruel, and mercilefs> to Men infolenr,
and audacious to Heaven j who by this meer Ma-
gick of Enrhufiafm, backed by the Sword and
Spear, fet up the boldeft, the grofleft, and the moft-
fenfelefs of all Impoftures that ever was in the
World 3
3y A s r s r E M
World 5 and which yet at this Time, and for above
a thoufand Years pad, has ftrangely triumph'd over
the Chriftian World, has fpread itfelf over Jfia and
jifrica^ from the utmoft Iflands of India Eaft, to
the utmoil Corner o£ Africa to the Weftj and it was,
'till within a few Years paft, Mailer of a fourth
Part of Europe befides.
Such is the Force of Ecclefiaflic Magick, and how
far it is gone befides this to break into the Eccle-
fiaftic Affairs of the Chriftian World, is not hard
to defcribe, tho' it would take up too much Room,
efpeciaily at the Clofe of this Work, to enquire
into the Particulars.
What a continued Series of Ecclefiaftic Magick
has been afted among the Romifh Clergy, and in
the whole Papal Hierarchy! Even Popery itfelf
feems to me to be one entire Syftem of Antechri-
llian Magick > its Conftitutions are all Sorcery and
Witchcraft 5 they prevail upon Senfe by Nonfenfe,
upon the Head by the Tail, upon Zeal by Enthu-
fiafm 3 and upon the Chriftian Doftrine by the Do-
ftrine of the DenjiL
How could it be pofiible that Mankind, blinded
by their own Obftinacy, could fink their Reafon to
ere6l: Notion j eftablifh Fraud and Cheat, againft
Chriftian Sincerity and Plainnefsj make Men re-
fufe to fee when their Eyes are openj worftiip
Priefts in the Name of God, and fet up Darknels
in the room of Light-, if they were not bewitched
with the Magick of Hell, and under the entire
Management of the Devil ?
It would be worth while here to draw a Table
of Proportions, and let us fee how much more
fatal to the World this Ecclefiaftic Magick of Po-
pery, inclufivc of a few other fpiritual Delufions
and Enthufiafms, has been, than all the Magick
of Paganifm, and all the Conjurations of Hell were
before.
That
of M A G I C K. 3J3
That Men ihould renounce the Idols, and then
worfhip the Prieftj condemn Oracles, and enquire
of the Devihy caft off the Baals^ the Jupiters^ and
the Saturns of the Pagans, and fet up a Breaden .
God that they fhould firft Worfhip and then
devour
!
That whole Nations ihould relinquifli the glorious
Hoft of Heaven, the much more rational Gods of
their Fore-fathers, and empower every Fried to
make a God for 'em with half an Ounce of Meal
!
The Clergy were indeed in the right of it fo far,
that they, like the Silver-fmiths of Ephefus^ when
they had once drawn the People into this Magick
of a Worfhip, took care to engrofs the Art of ma-
king Gods all to themfelves.
Nor was it the lead Part of the Magick of this
Contrivance, that they fhould make eating their
God be a Part of their moft folemn Idolatry, I can-
not call it Worfhip j that when they had made a
Bufliel or two of Gods, and been paid for 'em, the
People that came to Church might eat 'em up,
and the Priefls be richly fet to work to make
more.
If ever the Talifmans of the Greeks^ the Augurs
and Aurufpices of the Romans^ the Lap-dog of Ve^
nutius^ or Mahomefs Pidgeon could out-do thefe
Delufions of Church Magick, I am quite miflaken
and fhall be ready to acknowledge it.
That Men fhould fin againfl God, and then ask
the Prieft Pardon for it> as if a Man fhould commit
Treafon in England againft the King, and then go
to a Chimny-fweeper, or a Black-guard-boy, to be
pardon'd for it : That a Man fhall go to a Shop-
keeper in Cheapjide to buy a Licenle to commie
Whoredom, or to rob upon the Highv/ay, and
ftock-job Heaven in Exchange-Alky by Puts and
RefufaL
A a
If
3^4 A SYSTEM
If ever there was any Magick in Mgypt or Ara^
hm like this, Hiftory is entirely lilent in it, nor had
the Devil ever Craft enough to teach his Difciples
any fuch Art. What Sums of Money would the
Heathen Priefts have raifed if their Gods had took
Bribes as ours do, and Pardons for Sin, and Licenfe
to fin, had been to be bought and fold at the
Church Doors, as it is with us?
But thefe are merry Times, and the Church Ma-
gick out-does all the Conjurings of the Antients,
as much as Madam Violante out-does a common
Stage-Tumbler, or as an Hofpital thorough-bred
Surgeon does a Mountebank Tooth-drawer.
As to our religious Magick, the Enthufiafms
and Herefies that reign among us, I think we muft
deal with them juft as their Maker feems to have
done, let them alone, give them up to their own
Magick, and to their own Delufions, to believe
the Lies of their own making. For as thofe holy
Cheats are the eafieft to be difcovcr'd, they are the
hardeft to be cur'd, becaufc they are generally fup-
ported from this invifible World of Spirits, tllcfe
mighty good fuperior Beings, that is to fay, the
D,evll^ with whom the Fathers of thefe religious
Frauds have fo intimate Acquaintance, that the Mif-
chiefs they fpreadj and the Confufions which they
bring every Day into all our religious Eftablifh-
menr, are too deep roored for all the Skill and Ap-
plication of the more i^ligious World to cure.
But I muft obferve one thing here, which is
necefiary to your Illumination, and tho' it fhould
bring me back and draw me in again to th«
Sin of Gravity, which the Town hates 5
yet ven-
turing the general Difpleafure, I fay 'tis nece/Tary
to take Notice here, that thefe religious Effluvia
of Hell, which at prefent rtiake fuch Confufion of
Principles among us, are fo demonftrably embrac'd
by the prefent M^gi^ the Sages, the Converfers
r with
of M A G I C K. 3JJ
with good Spirits, the Roftcrucians^ and Maders
of the Occulc Sciences, and all the other Preten-
ders to Supernaturals, and fecret Illuminations > that
they leave us no more room to doubt but they are all
Natives of the fame Climate, bred up in the fame
Country, carrying on the fame Intereft, and will
{hare at laft in the fame Deflru6l:ion ; when the
Tares and the Wheat fhall be skilfully and criti-
cally feparated, as we are well afllir'd they will be.
This indeed flands fair againft all the modern
Teachers of the Roficrucian Whimfies, and the
Dodrine of Spirits, viz. that None of them apply-
to the Eftablifhment of true Religion. On the
contrary, they eftablifh, or ftrive to eftablifh, old
Errors, and continually broach new 5 they preach
another Dodrine, and their Notions, were they
not expos'd by their own Extravagancies, and En-
thufiaftic Brains, would expofe themfelves, being a
kind of religious Ramble, a confus'd and a con-
founding Heap of Nonfenfe : The poor People
would otherwife be in Danger of being wheedled
into their Delufions, but this unravels all their dark
Schemes, and tends to {how us the Cheat of all the
refl, and to convince us that 'tis all a Black Art,
all a Diabolick, a meer Emanation of Hell.
Thus all their Magick deteds and expofes it felf,
all the high and bluilring Bombafl of Sacred, Di-
vine, Excellent, and fuch like, difcover whence
they come J the Pretences to Illuminations, Com-
munication, or Intercourfe with Spirits, and an invi-
fible World, appear to be Pretences, and no morej
Their Dreams oiSerial Subftances and Spirituous Bo-
dies, the Inhabitants ofthe Elements,the refin'd incor-
poreal EfTences > their Abflrads of Quinreflence, and
a thoufand more which they put upon the World j
1 fay, they all fmell of the Fire and Brim (lone, are
born of Hell, their inviflble World is evidently to
be underltood the Infernal World, and their Study of
A a ^ the
35^ A s r s r E M
the Sacred Sciences, is neither more or lefs, tofpeak
in the common Diale£b, than deahng with the
Devil y there it begins, and there it muft and will
end.
What elfe means their Philofophick Cant of
mingling the fupeinatural Eflences, their confound-
ing the Terms of Religion and things Divine,
with the Dreams and the Jargon of their unfigni-
fying Language? loofing the Name of God, De^
vil^ Heaven, Hell^ in the Cant of their Trade,
and the laboured Expreflions of facred Flame, men-
tal Fire, immortal Spirit, Pcrfedion, Corruption,
illuminating Genius, and a vaft Throng of
Words, tending to amufe the Foolifh, and diltra6t
the Wife J tending to deftroy Religion and all the
folid Eflablifhment of Heaven, whether for the Fe-
licity of the Juil, or Punifhment of the Wicked ?
Had their Magick any Tokens of a truly Divine
Inftirution, of a heavenly Original, and was this de-
monftrated by its confirming, and conforming to the
Principles of either Natural or Reveal'd Religion,
fomething might befaid for it 5 or was its Tendency
to eftabliih, not bewilder the Underflanding, and
to fix the Knowledge of the true God in the Minds
of Men ^ was it qualify'd to eftabliih our Faith in
divine Illuminations, and trulv todircft our Worihip
and Homage to Him, encoLraguig at the fame time
peace, Juftice, Humility, and every Chriftian Virtue
5
Were this the Cafe, we ihould not difpute with
them the Converfe of Spirits between us and the
invifible World, the Spirits uncas'd and fled from
hence, with the Spirits yet embodyed, by an invifible
and inconcer Hblc Communication. But leave it as
it is, a Matter indifferent to us at prefent, till it
comes to be underftood better when we arrive
there.
CHAP.
of MAGIC K.
CHAP. V.
Of the Magick of the prefent Time^ as it
ftands Jirifd in the laji Chapter, from all
the Tretences of the Magicians, and the "De-
lufons of Hell ; of what Length it has
gone^ or is like to go^ in deluding Mankind%
what the Magicians can do^ and that they
really have now no Converfe with the Devil
at all: So that the Art being at an Endy
the Hijiory comes to an End of courje.
HAVING, in the lad Chapter, brought down
this Idol call'd Magick to its true Original,
flrip'd it of all the MaiqucraJe DreHes, jelteJ a
little about it, and at lall laid the Baftard at the
Devil's Door, who is the true Father of it 5 One
would think ib Bare-fac'd an Impofture fhould be
able to appear no longer in the World, that ic
would be hifs'd off the Stage, and that the very Boys
and Girls would throw Stones and Dirt at it in the
Street.
But the Cafe is quite otherwife, and in fpight of
Contradi6tion the Devil goes on his own wayj if
this or that Nation, or Country, or People drop
him, and refufe him, he goes to another j like a
true Pedlar, if he is anfwer'd No at one Door, he
knocks at the next. If he fells Counterfeits, and is
caird Cheating Knave at one Houfe, he calls him-
felf honeft Man at another. The Devil is never
baulk'd, but carries on his Game, in fpight of all
the Repulfes he meets with, nay in fpite of Heaven
i : fclf.
Befides, he is never at a lo^s for Difguifes, and
like a Lady at the Ball, if fhe happens to have been
known in her Mafqucrade Habit Ycfierday, to-
A a 3
morrow
33 8 A s r s r E M
morrow flie gets another that iliall be a more per-
fed Difguife. If he happens to be blown here, he
is conceard there. If he is difcover'd and known
for a Devil to-day, you ftiall miilake him again,
and take him for a Saint or Magician of another
kind to-morrow.
Nay, and after all, even where he is known to
be the Devil^ and finds he cannot be difguis'd any
longer 5 yet he has his ways with him, to win and
pleafe you, and draw you in, at lead to bear with
him, feeing he does you no harm. Thus, do you
not fee the Crowd about the Puppet-Show, and do
they not laugh, and halloo, and appear infinitely
pleas'd with the grofleft and fimpleft of all Cheats j
and that tho' they know them to be Cheats and
Delufions, and that they are but meer Puppets?
So our Magicians^ tho' you know them to be
Cheats, tho' you know that notwithftanding all
their Pretences, they really deal with the Devil^
yet we have People among us that would be con-
tent, and deal with them upon that very Score. I
want to know, fays the jealous-headed Country-
man, who has made me a Cuckold, and don't tell
me of the Cunning Man going to the Devil for In-
formation. Why, I'd go to the Devil my felf, if
I knew where he was, rather than not find it out.
Nay, tho' you convince them, that even in the
worft of it all, the Fellow is not fo wicked as they
think he is, or as he makes of himfelf, that he
knows nothing of the Devil any more than they
do, but only cheats them, and perfwades them to
believe he knows fomething, when indeed he
knows nothing of the matter, yet ftill they will
go to himj Such an old Woman, or fuch a young
Fool, told 'em, that they had been with the Cun-
ning Man, and they will go too 5 nor is it poffible
to perfwade them againft it, till they have thrown
their ^^%;ney away, and come back aiham'd.
So
of M A G 1 C K. 359
So that the Delufion ftill goes on. A young Girl
has two Sweet-hearts, and fhe goes to the Cun-
ning Man to know which of thofe two fliall
have her. A young Fellow has loft his Mlilrefs,
and muft know who Courts her. Another has loft
a C0W5 and away he goes to the Cunning Man
to know who has ftole her. The crafty Sh er,
like the De^viFs Oracles of old, gives doubrful An-
fwers, fatisfies no Body, and yet pleafes every Body.
He fends the Girl home with an old Wife's
Talej bids her lay two Sticks a-crofs under her
Pillow, and the firft {he dreams on will be the
Man. The poor Girl's Head runs upon the Affair
of a Husband, 'tis no wonder ihe fhould dream of
one of them, and it may be the right, as well
the wrong, fo that 'tis an even Lay. But the Con-
jurer is right j and to be once right, fecures him the
Cuftom of all the young People in the Country 5
whereas, if he is out, that's forgotten, and docs '
him no Harm.
This is the Devil's low-priz'd Game, and he
carries it on a great way 5 and as the Mountebank
oftentimes gees more Money than a licenfed Fhy-
fician, and the Quack than the Dodorj fo the
Devil gets more Clients than the Counfellor, and
his Agents have as much Pradice as the Lawyers,
and perhaps upon as honeft a foot too as fome of
them.
I fliould enquire a little here, and expofe the
weak Doings of thofe Cunning Men, and how
they delude the poor People > but 'tis of no great
Ufe. For as 'tis one of the (impleft things of its
kind in the World, and by which the poor Peo-
ple are the moft impos'd upon, yet 'tis perhaps
one of the laft Delufions in the World that they
will be cur'd ofj nor can all the Cunning Men of
a higher Kind in the whole World reafon them out
of it. They will leave the Surgeon for the Moun-
A a 4 tebank.
3(Jo A S r S T E M
tebank, the Phyfician for the Quack, the Parfon
for the Conjurer, and God for the Devil, A few
ihort Tales upon this Part may perhaps illuftrate
the Speculation, and fhow you the Force of Fraud,
tho' I doubt it will not do much towards a Cure.
A Magician giving out his Bills, and boafting of
his mighty Perfomances, went down in the way of
his Calling, as other Tradefmen do, to Briftol Fair,
and there he did Wonders, told Fortunes, calcu-
lated Nativities, look'd in the Girls Hands, peep'd
in their Eyes, talk'd broad things to them to make
them bluih > and then guefTing from their Colour
how things flood with them, and by a thoufand
crofs Queftions, firfl crept into their Cafes, and
then told them for a mighty Difcovery, what they
had difcover'd to him with their own foolilh
Tongues that very Minute.
Among the reft of the young Lafles that came
to him with their Grievances, there comes one
with that laudable Queftionj if in Love^ whether
J fiaJl marry the Man or no? She was fo Modeft
that {he could not tell the Do(5lor her Cafe her
felf, but flie brings it him in Writing; and in-
ftead of ftating the Queftion as above, If in Love^
£he had written it, // Courted.
The Do6l:or (for they are all Dolors) looks upon
the Paper, and feeing it a Woman's Hand; 'Tis your
own Writing, Child, fays he, I fuppofe, you would
not truft any body elfe with it; fhe curtify'd, and
faid Tes : fo he reads it out. If in Love^ whether the
Man will marry me or no? The Girl coloured and faid,
*tis not fo, you don't read in right, Sir. Well Child,
fays he, I'll read it right, Ipy and by ; come hither
Sweet-heart, pull off thy Glovt, let me fee thy
Hand; fo he takes her by the Hand^ looks in the
Palm, cries Hum, very well, all's right there; then
he feels her Puife, Hal fays he, with a kind of Start,
is it fo? well, come Child, feys he, fit down in this
•
Chair,
of M A G I C K. 3iJt
Chair, I'll tell thee a Story : fo the Girl, after a few
Curtefies and flight Refufes, fics down > and the Do-
6i:or begins his Scory: There was, {ays he, a young
Woman, a very pretty cleaver Girl, as you are, my
Dear, (and with that he feels her Pulfe again)
came to me t'other Day juft with fuch a Quellion
as this, and after I had a little Talk with her, and
feeling her Pulfe, as 1 do yours, my Dear, (and
then he felt her Pulfe again, and flarted again Ha^
fays ht^'tisfo indeed^znd then goes on) I by the Help
of my Art, which is the moft certain Line for the
Difcovery of hidden Truth direded by Nature, and
by the Intercourfe of invifible Beings, which inform
me of every thing proper to be known, and for the
Service of thofc who come to be aflifted with my
exalted Genius, I fay by my infallible Judgment
I found the poor Girl had concealed fomething from
me, which indeed fhe ought not to have done.
For by giving me a wrong Account of her Cafe,
how fhould I give a dire6b Anfwer? were it not that
I, who am afUfted by the good Spirits, the Inhabi-
tants of the fuperior World, am notko be deceived.
So I faid to her. Sweet-heart, thou halt con-
cealed the chief Part of thy Cafe 5 is there not
fomething more in this Queftion than thou hafl
acknowledg'd ? She made me no Anfwer at firft,
till I being illuminated by the bright Spirit of
the fifth Region o^ Jlahamed irwijhah^ and by all
the affifting Lights of the high exalted Atmofphere,
(Here the Do6tor run over a great many Greek
Words, which almofl frighted the poor Girl whom
he held faft by the Hand or Wrift all the while) I,
faid he, that could not be deceived, told her in
plain Words, Why thou haft concealed from me
that thou art with Child > at which, continues he,
the guilty poor Girl having nothing to fay, and be-
ing not able to deny what fhe found was reveal'd
to me by my never-failing Intelligence, confefsM
to
A SYSTEM
to me, that it was fo; and I having Compaffion for
her Circum fiances (for fhe had been deluded) pro-
mised her my powerful Affiftanccto bring the Knave
to marry her, which is now happily done to her in-
finite Satisfadion. All this while he held her by
the Wriit, and look'd frequently in her Face.
By the firft he difcern'd an unufual Fluttering and
fudden Diforder in her Pulfe, occafioned by
the Story being well enough told, and the firit
Girl's Behaviour mimick'd to the Life 5 by looking
in her Face, he faw her Colour come and go 5 and
when he talked of his knowing every thing from
the fuperior Beings and the invifible Word, he faw
flie was in the utmoft Confufion.
Now my Dear, fays the Dodtor, raifing her by
the Hand out of the Chair, give me Leave to look
a httle firther> fo leading her to the Window, he
gently lifted up one of her Eye-lids, then he gave
two Hums and faid. Pretty well there. The Girl all
the while blufht and coloured, and chang'd now
red, and then palej a little Conjuration indeed
would tell the Do6ior how it was with her.
Now, my Dear, fays he to the Girl, you would
do well to be fo free with me as to let me know
your whole Cafe, if you think fit to truft me with
it, and for that, 1 am as fecret as Death 5 you need
not be under the leaft Concern about that, for 'tis
my Bufincfs, I am trufted with the Secrets of
Princes, and am a Counfellor of Counfellors j and if
I fhould betray any body, it would be a double
Offence, neither would the invifible Spirits com-
municate the Secrets of People's Affairs to me if
they did not judge me faithful, therefore you may
truft me with the utmoft Safety, Child, adds he,
I fhall never divulge any thing that you commit to me.
The Girl was as mute as a FiAi, and faid not one
Word to him, but blufh'd and colour'd as red as
the Gills of a Turkey-Cock when he is angry.
Come
of M A Q I C K. 3^3
Come, my Dear, fays he, perhaps you can't ex-
prefs your fclf freely, fo I v/on't prefs you any far-
ther \ but fit down till I confult the good Spirits again,
who, as I told thee, are alv/ays ready to afTift di-
ftrefled Innocence j and who will not fail to give
me a full Information of your Cafe, and Diredions
alfo for your Good 5 fo that I do not need you
fhould make any kind of Confeflion of your Cafe
to me. I fhall be able prefently to tell it you di-
reftly without your Help 5 fo pray fit but two or
three Minutes, and I'll come to you again.
Having faid this to her, he offer'd to go away,
at which the Girl fell a crying vehemently j and
the Do6tor, too cunning not to take hold of it, and
fatisfied that he had hit the Mark, ftopt, and came
back to her: Well, my Dear, fays he, I fee how
'tis, and 1 had partly Intelligence of it before, as
you may eafily perceive 5 But, come Child, adds
he, let's fee, what is to be done for thee ? She cried
all the while} but when he faid. What's to be done,
fhe faid, but could not fpeak it plain for crying,
Jhat Thomas would —>
— and there fhe flopp'd. I
underftand thee Child, fays he, that I fhould make
Thomas marry thee, is it not ? TE S^ fays fhe, and
blubber'd moft fadly.
Well, fays the Dodbor, but how far are you
gone with Child? let me know that, and then I'll
tell thee whether I can bring it to pafs or no.
With that he laid his Hand gently upon her Belly.
I doubt thou art far gone, (ays he : About four
Months, fays the Girl. Well, Child, fays he, come
to me again To-morrow in the Afternoon, and Til
tell thee what is refolvcd in thy Cafe by the
Powers who affifl my never-failing Art. So taking
a Crown of the Poor Girl for letting him pump
the Truth out of her own Mouth, and getting the
Reputation of a moft eminent Magician and Man of
Art, he difmifs'd her for that time, letting her know
that
A SYSTEM
that if he undertook to bring Thomas to marry her,
he fhould exped; a more confiderable Acknow-
ledgement.
In a word, he took Thomas'^ Name, and where
he liv'd, and found Ways to manage Thomas fo well,
that Thomas came to him in two or three Days to
get rid of a Ghoft, that haunted him. The Cafe
was this; The Do£i:or had an Implement which
he carried with him upon the Occadon of his Bu-
iinefsj a fubile, oily-tongu'd, young Fellow, who
was a Jack-of-all-Trades, here he was a Juggler,
there a Tumbler, To-day a Conjurer, at one time
a Ghoft or App rition, at another a Devil or Spirit,
and fo aded all Shapes and Poflures that could be
defired.
The Doftor having had his Intelligence from the
Girl where Thomas liv'd, and finding very happily
that he lodg'd in a puMickHoufe not far off, being
Servant to a Tradcfman, who not having Room
for him in his Houfe, paid for a Lodgmg for him
in the Ale-houfej I fay, having gotten this
Handle, he fends his Ingineer to lodge in the fame
Houfe.
This Fellow finds an Opportunity to come fo
far acquainted with Thomas^ as always to know
whither he went, and upon what Errands and Bu-
finefs: and the firfl: Time that Thomas was fent of
an Errand (very happily for him) was to a Vil-
lage, about a Mile out of the City, and in the
Evening.
As Thomas was going to this Village, this fubtle
Rogue gets behind a Wall in his Way, and with
a hollow dead kind of Voice calls him three times
by his Name 5 and immediately convey'd himfelf
away into a Field of Corn, where, had Thomas fu-
fpe6ted him. he could not have found himj and get-
ting out of the Corn, he runs round by another
Way, and puts himfelf juil in the Way that Thomas
was
of M A G I C K. 3<Jj
was to come, and as if he had been farther thac
Way, and was returning, meets 'Thomas full-but, as
they call it, one going from the City, and the o-
there coming to it.
They falureasufual, and as Acquaintance, and fall
into a fhon: Difcourfe upon the Occafion of the
Voice that -Thomas had heard.
George^ fays Thomas^ I am very glad to fee you ;
I widi you would g > back with me to yon' Town
there, I'd be much beholden to you for your Com-
pany.
I am in great Hafte, fays George -y I can't go
now.
O Pray do, if you can, for I'm terribly frighted,
fays Thomas.
Frighred, fays George^ at what?
"W hy, as I came along by the flone Wall there,
fays Thomas^ at the Bottom of the Hill, I heard a
Voice call me three Times by my Name, aloud.
Why, what does that fignify, fays George? 'twas
fomebody behind the Wall, to be fure, that knew
you 5 what fhou'd you be frighted at that for ?
No, no, 'twas not behind the Wall, 'twas rather
on t'other fide of the Road, fays Thomas ^y but the
Voice was up in the Air, to be fure it muft be fome
Spirit.
Nay, if it was up in the Air indeed, fays George^
there may be fomething in it j thofe Voices are (ad
things 'y my Mafter now would tell you exaftly what
it meant.
Why ^Yt fays Thomas^ fo they fay 5 your Mafter
can tell Folks all fuch things, but can't you tell
a-body fomething of it too ^ come, do, go back
with me a little.
Nay, fays George^ fi nee you are fo concern'd, I
will go 'till I fee you fafe at the next Town, or
fo, but I muft run Home then, for 'tis almoll
Nighty and my Mafter will want me.
A SYSTEM
[Soinjhort^ Gtorgt go?s along with him^ which
was all he wanted.
But George^ fays "thomasj what can this Voice
mean?
How many Times did it call you? fays George,
Three Times, fays Thomas.
And was it very loud and diftin£t? fays George,
Are you fure you are not deceived ? for fometimes
People fancy Voices when there are none.
Ay, that maybe, fays Thomas^hut Ian*c fo fancy-
ful > I am very fure I heard it three Times 5 it
call'd my Chriftian Name and Sirname, I'homas
firft, then "fhomas Saunders^ and fhomas Saunders
again} 'twas a Devil's Voice to be fure, 'twas
harfh and hollow as the Devil.
Nay, I don't like it, I confels, fays George -, it
feems to fignify Death when People are called fo,
and it may be in three Days, three Weeks, or
three Months, or three Years.
Can't you tell me which ? fays Thomas.
No really, fays George^ I can't go fo far as that.
If my Mailer was to know the Cafe, he would
tell you exaflly } but I dare fay 'tis Death, or
fomething very bad.
They had not gone far after this, but George
watching a convenient Place, gives a little Start,
and flops, looking as if he faw fomething : Hold
a little, fays he to Thomas,
What's the matter ? fays Thomas,
Matter, fays George j Nay you beft know what's
the matter ; have you committed Murther, Thomas ?
have you kill'd any body?
I kill'd any body ! Mercy upon me ! fays Thomas^
what do you mean ?
Why, do you fee nothing, y^j'j George^ do ye fee
nothing * there ?
^ He points to a great Tree which food on the Com"
mon which they were going over.
No,
6f M A G I C K.
No, not l^ fays "Thomas *y don't fright me; you
know, George^ I am frighted enough ah-eady.
Nay, fays George^ I don't defirc to fright you,
Thomas 5 but you would be worfe frighted than I
if you faw it j I'm glad you don't.
But what is ix,'^. fays Thomas, Dear G^^r^f,tell me,
is it the Devil?
No^ no^ not the Devil^ fays George^ but 'tis a Spi-
rit, 'tis a Ghoft to be fure j that made me ask if you
had kiird any body.
Well, I fhall die, fays Thomas -y
I'm e'en dead
with the Fright; Why how fliould you fee it and
not I, George?
O, there's a Reafon for that,y^^x G^^rg^; my Ma-
iler gave me a particular Sight; that I can fee Ap-
paritions when others can't, it belongs to our Bu-
finefs ; but you'll fee it prefently, for it will come
nearer, I fee that.
O, fays Thomas^ what {hall I do, George ? will it
fpeak to me ?
I don't know yet, fays George^ it may be not, I'll
tell you prefently.
They continued going forward all this while, and
began to come pretty near the Town ; when by-
and-by,y^j'j George^ I don't know what to think of
it, Thomas ; it threatens and makes Signs as if it
would come up to you and llrike you.
Strike me ! fays Thomas : nay then 'twill kill me
to be fure.
No, no, they never kill any body ; befides, I fee
you are in fuch a Fright, I'll fee if I can fpeak to
it, and keep it off ; if my Mafter were here, he'd
fend it away with a Word fpeaking. With that
George goes three Steps forward ; bids Thomas ftand
flill, draws a Circle with his Stick upon the Ground,
and puts Thomas into it : Stand there, y^jV-f George^ and
you fhall be fafe, and don't be afraid, I'll fee what
1 can do for thee,
Thomas
A SYSTEM
"Thomas (lands ftill as he was bid, but quaking and
trembling in the utmoft Confafionj andG^^r^^ goes
forward a little out of the Way and talks aloud,
but fo that Thomas could hear only the Voice, not
underftand the Words5 and Gt?(?r^^ makes a great
many Motions and CrofTes in the Air, and this he
held a good while, when he comes back to Thomas,
Well, Thomas^ fays he^ I believe 1 have deliver'd
you for this time, but fomething is the matter > this
Apparition threatens you flrangely 5 I fancy you'll
hear of it again.
But is it gone now "^
fays Thomas.
Stand ftill,y^}/j George^'x little,! think 'tis a going.
So George and he (land dill a little: Ay, there,
fays George^ it goes off that Way (pointing North)
and now 'tis gone up in the Air, fays George^ come
now we'll go on. So away they went to the Town,
and George tells him he mud take his Leave of him,
and run home as hard as he can drive.
Dear George^ fays Thomas^ don't leave mej why,
I could not go back in the dark if you would give
me a thoufand Pounds.
I can't poflibly iivf^ fays George-, if you are fo
frighted, you had bed lie there all Night, and come
Home in the Morning.
I dare not do that neither, fays Thomas^ my Ma-
iler will be fo angry, 'tis as much as my Place is
worth.
Why then you mud get fomebody to come with
you at the Town, fays George^ for indeed I can't
day now. So away comes George and leaves him,
and fets up a Run, as if he was bound to be back
again with the utmod Expedition.
When Gecrge had got av/ay and was out of fight,
healter'd himfelf, as he knew very well how to do
by his Skill in Podures and Tumbling, which, as
before^ was a Part of his Trade > and having a linnen
Habit in his ereat Pocket, dxQ^QS himfelf up in the
Habit
of M A G I C K. 3<?p
Habit of a Ghoftor an Apparition, not in a Slirowd
like a dead Body, but all in white, down to the Feet,
and a Woman's Head-drefs upon his Head 5 and
in this Poflure he places himfelf where he knew
"Thomas would come. But before this, covering his
Habit with his great Coat, he plac'd himfelf at the
Village in fight of the Door where Thomas went in,
that he might be fure to know v/hen he came our,
and which Way he went, left he ihould take fome
other Way 5 and alfo to know who and how many
he got to come with him.
He foon found Thomas on his Way, for he came
out of the Houfe and two Fellows with him in
about an Hour : So George foliow'd 'em at a di-
Hance, 'till he faw them in a little Lane leading
into the Common as before, and when he knew they
could go no other Way 5 upon which, he run by
another Way over the Fields, and got into the
Common before them.
l^he firft thing he did was to get into a little
Thicket, where lying flat on the Ground, and out
of Sight, he lay and hifs'd like a Serpen: molt
frightfully \ This had its immediate EfFe6t, for ic
frighted them all, and he heard one of them fay. It
was the Devil^ and that he was come for Thomas to
be fure : and the other faid fo too, adding that he
would go no further 5 this was enough for George^
for by this he knew they were no Champions that
Thomas had brought along with him \ fo removing and
gettirjg to another Place a little behind them, that
they might not run back again, there he chang'd
his Note, and then growPd like a great Dog, and
thar frighted them again. Now having made this
Beginning, he leaves oiF a little, and goes into the
Common, and ftands in the middle of the Road
juft where the Lane open d into the Heath j fo than
he might be fure to be feen all in white, a little be-
fore they came out of the Lane.
B b The
370 A S Y S r E M
The Night was not very dark, but no Moon-
light 3 feme Stars, not many, were feen j when co-
ming to the Lane's end, they faw the Speftre, and
no fooner faw it, but all three run away and cry'd
out mod terribly. George had now his End, for he
didn't defire to carry it on any farther 5 fo he kept
his Pofl 'till he found by their l^ife they crofs'd
the Common farther off and out or Sight; then he
put off his Habit, and made the bell of his Way
to their Lodging; where when 'fhomas came, he
found George very fedately ftanding at the Door
fmoaking his Pipe.
He bad Thomas well- come Home, but faid no
more, not taking the leaft notice of any thing; but
found that Thomas went immediately up Stairs, and
threw himfelf down upon the Bed; and the next
Morning Thomas was very fick.
George in the mean time went home to his Ma-
iler, and gave him an Account of the whole Tranf-
aftion, who finding his Engines work to his Mind,
gave George farther Inftru61:ions ; which were in (hort,
to haunt the poor Fellow Night and Day, and give
him no Quiet, 'till he had manag'd him up to a
Neceflity of coming to him (the Doctor) for Help,
which was not long firft.
1 fhould have obferved that the Doftor or Cun-
ning Man finding he fhould compafs his Ends upon
Thomasy^cnlno'^^oY the poor Girl, and told her, that
he had employed the utmoft of his Art and Skill
in her Behalf; And upon my Word, adds he, my
Child, I have had a fatherly Concern for you ;
and I have engaged fo many of the good Spirits
of the fuperior Regions in your Favour, that they
(always ready to do A6i:s of Beneficence and
Kindnefs to diftrefs'd Mortals) have affured me that
Thomas fhall marry you; ay, and fhall come and
court you to have him too, as much as if he had
not gotten this unjufl Advantage of you, or he
fhall
of M A G I C K. 371
fhall have no Reft in this Life, nay he fhall have
no Reft in this Life 'till he does.
The poor Girl linil'd, and was mightily pleas'd,
as you may well fuppofe, and purs her Hand in her
Pocket, and gives the Dcftor half a Guinea for the
good News. The Do6tor took the Money, but
told her modeftly, that if he did her fuch a great
piece of Service as this, ftie muft confider, £5?^.
She underftood him, and told him, ftie had not a
great deal of Money, but yet fhe had a rich Aunt,
and other good Friends ; and Thomas need not
ha' us'd her foj for, that if—and then fhe cry'd
again, ftie would have fcorn'd to ha' marry'd him,
but 1 underftand you, Child, fays the Do6i:orj
now you muft not only take him, hut muft be glad
he will take you? Yes, Sir, fxys (he.
Well, fays the DoSlor^ and does your Aunt know
this unlucky Story ?
Yes Sir, fays the Girl, and the bid me tell you,
{he will make a handfome Prefent to you, if you
can bring it about.
Well Child, fays the Do6tor, tell your Aunt,
I will undertake to do it, if fhe will be as good as
her Word.
Indeed fhe will. Sir. I will bring it you, fays fhe;
and nam'd the Sum, which was no lefs than twenty
Pounds 3 and the Docbor, with an unufual Modelty,
not craving any more, told her generoufly, that if
he fail'd, he would have nothing more than fhe
had given him already.
This Treaty took up two or three Days, and in
the mean time George haunted 'Thomas^ upon feve-
ral Occafions: Nay, he could hardlv ftir out of
Doors in the Night, but he fhow'd himfelf, fome-
times all in White, fometimes all in Black; till ac
laft 'Thomas comes to him one Evening: George^
[ays he^ dear George^ if you don't help me, I know
not what to do. I am harrafs'd out of my Wits.
B b 2 This
371 A S T S T E M
This Devilj if it is the Devil^ haunts me (o^ that \t
gives me no Reft. Laft Night it call'd me again
three times at my Chamber Window, the very
fame Voice, and three times over, juft as it did at
the long Wall. ^
N . B. George had cunningly got a Ladder in the
I^ight^ and fet it up to the Fellow's Window^
and 'Went up^ and caWd him aloud^ with the
fame hollow dead Sound^ as he did before.
Well, fays George^ I am forry for ir, 'thomas-^ I
v/ould have you fend for a Minifter, and prepare for
another World, for I doubt you are not very long
for this World.
But did not you tell x^t^ fays Thomas^ your Mafter
could do fomething for me ?
Yes indeed, yi^ji George,^ I did foj and I believe
he could, if you han't let it run too far, and if you
han't done fome fad thing, 'Thomas: For the Spi-
rits of the invifihle World, which my Mafter
knows and converfes with, are all good Spirits,
*Thomas^ and they will do no nothing for you, adds
he, if you have committed Murder or Robbery,
or any fuch thing; and therefore if that be your
Cafe, do not let me carry you to my Mafter, for
he can do you no good.
Thomas ftar'd as if he had been bewirch'd. Mer-
cy upon me! what do you mean, Brother George^ fays
he^ I am as Innocent as the Child unborn. I never
did any fuch thing in my Life.
Well, Thomas^ fays George^ if you fpeak honeftly,
ril let my Mafter know your Cafe, and if you will
come to our Office to-morrrow Morning, you
ihall have his Anfwer.
Good George^ fays Thomas^ don't put it off till to-
morrow 5 what fhall I do? Why George^ the Devil
will murder me to-night.
What would you have me ^0} fays George. I'll
go immediately, if you wiHj buc I doubt he is not
ac home. How-
of M A Q 1 C K. 373
However, Thomas prefling him, away they go to
the Doftor together 5 which was indeed \v\\z\George
wanted. When they came to him, George inrro-
duces the young Manj and, in a word, tells hira
the whole Story at Large, and implores his high
fuperior Afliftanceto the poor didrels'd young Man,
who was daily terrify'd and harrafs'd, to the danger of
his Wits.
Bur, fays the Doctor, (jufl as George had been
taught to do beforej I fear this Man has commit-
ted fome flagrant Crime, and fo the evil Sprits
have a right to purfue him. Hark thee Friend,
come hither to me, let me fee thy Hand; halt thou
not committed Murder, or Treafon ? No indeed,
Sir, fays 'Thomas^ never in my Life.
Well, pull of thy Glove, fiys the Do£i:or.
Here, Sir, fays fhomas^ you may fee 1 an't burnt
in the Hand.
IVythee, young Man, fiys the Doftor, I don'c
look for that 5 fo he examines his Palm. Well, fays
the Doftor, all's 'well here. Nor you have com-
mitted no Robbery or Felony } don'c come to me
if you are Guilty of any fuch Crimes as you ought
to be hang'd for.
No, indeed, I han't, and't pleafe you, fays
Thomas,
Then the Doflror feels his Pulfe, and looks hinx
full in the Face : Here is fome Diforder, fome Guile
here. Look ye young Man^ aflure your felf, if you
have flolc any Thing, or committed any Crime,
the good Spirits, Inhabitants of the invifible World,
whofe fublime Influences I fhall apply to them for
in your Behalf, and to deliver you from the Power
of the evil Spirits which haunt you thus, will do
nothing for you, if you are a Criminal > and more
than that, they will certainly inform me of it, as
ffc)on as I make my Application for your Relief, and
tell it me as ihe llcalbn why they can do noching
B b 3 for
374 A S Y S r E M
for youj fo you had better let me know it before-
hand.
Indeed, Sir, and pleafe you, fays thomas^ I have
never done any fuch thing in my Life.
Haft thou ever done any Injury, fays the DoElor^
to any, for which thou can'lt'be thus plagu'd?
No indeed, Sir, not I, fays Thomas.
Well, Friend, fays the Do£ior^ I enquire for your
Service only 5 for I don't care what you have
done, nor do I care to know it. But let me ask
you one Queftion more, and then I fhall be able to
{peak for you in general, as a very innocent, honeft
Perfon. Are you willing to make Satisfadtion, or
Reparation, to any Body, or to every Body that you
have done any Injury to?
Yes, Sir, with all my Heart, y^;;j thomas-y and
Sir, adds he, I have never done any Hurt in all my
Life.
All this while the Dodor holds him by the Hand,
and every now and then feels his Pulfe. Look you.
Friend, fays he, here is fome little Diforder here in
your Blood, your Confcience flutters, and is a lit-
tle difturb'd. Come, don't fend me of a Fool's Er-
rand, for if thou doeft, I cannot only do thee no
good, but thefe evil Spirits will tear thee to Pieces,
when they know, as they will do, that I have
fpoke for thee. Come, I'll ask thee but one Que-
ftion more: Has there been no Love-Bufinefs be-
tween any young Girl and you, and fhe has broke
her Heart, and is dead for you, and now pays you
home for it, and plagues you ? for it feems you fay
the Apparition had a Woman's Head-drefs on.
No, indeed, Sir, fays Thomas^ I ne'er had any
Fancy, but for one, and fhe is alive j I am fure I faw
her feveral times fince this happen'd.
Now the Doctor had him faft. Well, is there
any thing between you, is fhe your Sweet-heart
flill?
No,
of M A G 1 C K. 37J
No, and'c pleafe you, fay% thomas^ we have
done.
Done! fays the Do5lor^ What have you done?
you han't lain with her, have you? But however
5
come, Thomas^ fays the Dodfor^ I muft own that is
not a fair Queilion, fo I don't prefs you to anfwer
me. I hope you have done the Girl no Wrong,
if you have, you fay you will make Reparation.
Come, fit down there, till I go into my Study, and
if you have been Honeft, I fliall ferve you, I don't
doubt} but if you han't, I ihall come back, and
tell you all you have conceal'd, without giving my
{qI^ the Trouble of asking you.
Here 1'homas began to Hare, and look frighted.
Why, Sir, and't pleafe you, fays he^ muft 1 con-
fefs every thing?
No, no, Thomas^ fays the Do£ior^ I don't ask
you to confefs any thing; I'll come back prefently,
and tell you, as well as if you told me your felf.
Ay, but then. Sir, fays Thomas^ you fay, if I
don't tell you every thing firft, then I ihall get no
Help afterwards ?
That's very true, fhomas^ fays the DoElor gravely^
I do fay fo; and therefore, if you have any thing
to tell me before I go, let me know it; but I don't
oblige you to tell, you may do as you will; if you
have any thing to fay, tell me; if not, tell me.
Why, nothing. Sir, but about the Girl^ a little.
Why, there now^ I thought fo, when I felt your
Pulfe : didn't I almoft tell you fo ? fays the Dodor.
I warrant you, ye have lain with the poor Girl
now, and it may be got her with Child : is that it?
I'm afraid {o^ indeed. Sir, fays "thomas-, but it
was but twice.
Well, fays the Do6lor^ you drew her in, I dare
fay, by promifing to marry her, didn't you ?
I think you know every thing, fays "tbomas ; in-
deed, 'tis fo, Sir.
B b 4 And
irS A S Y S T E M
And then, fays the Do^for^ when you found the
poor Girl was with Child, you difappointed her, I
fuppofe ?
Yes, Sir, fays I'homas'^ there's no hiding any
thing from you, \ think.
Well, T'hom^s. fays the DoBor^ but what fhall I
do for you now? for unlefs you make this poor
Girl fome Satisfaftion, there's no faving you.
Where is fiie? you fay ihe's alive, it feems.
Yes, and't pleafe you^ file's alive, fays 'Thomas^ fhe
don't live far off.
Well, what muft be done, "Thomas ? fays the Do-
6lor, What, would you marry her? will that give
her Satisfa6tion, Thomas ?
Yes, and't pleafe you^ I'll marry her 5 and I'll fend
for her jull now, fays Thomas.
What, and marry her in the Dark? fays the Do-
6lor : that won't do, Thomas.
Why, Sir, fays Thomas^ I'll marry her over a-
gain, by Day-light.
No, no, ThomasJ fays the DoUor^ we won't break
through the Laws neither. I'll tell you what you
fhall do. Send for the G'lrl^ and let me hear her
Story, and what fhe demands 5 if marrying her will
do, Thomas^ and that will fatisfie her, you fhall
fign a Bond here to her, to marry her to-morrow
Mornings and then to proted you from the Devil
that haunted you, you fhall lie here with my other
Man Will, to-night, and I will anfwer none of them
will dare to haunt you in my Houfe.
With all my Heart, an''t pleafe you^ fays Thomas^
if you will promife me, I fhall not be haunted any
more afterwards.
Why, Thomas^ fays the Doctor^ to fecure you,
I'll caft a Figure for you to-night, and I will know
if thofe Voices and Spe6lres were upon her Account,
or no 5 and if they were, I will anfwer for it, you
fhall hear no more of them after you have marry'd
her J
of M A G 1 C K. 377
her; and if they were nor, you flian'c be obh'g'd to
take her 5 that's a fair Propofal, Thomas.
Nay^ Mafter^ an't pleafe you, fays Thomas^ I
think I (hould take her, that's the Truth on't j and
rU e'en have her, 7//^/;^/^, whether I am deHver'dor
no, fince you fay 'tis juft, and I ihould do it. And,
hefides Mafter^ fays "fhomas^ fhe is a good honell
Girl, and loves me too mainly, and flie'il be a
good Wife: I'll e'en take her, Mailer, for better
for worfe.
Now you fpeak honeftly, fays the Do5lor. Now
I like you, 'Thomas, I warrant you the Devil will
haunt you no more, if you take her; but you have
been but a kind of a Rogue to her before, I under-
Hand.
Upon the whole, the Doflor heartens him
on, the young Fellow is eafy, and the young
Woman is fent for; and in the Morning they were
marry 'd, and had a great Wedding- Dinner near the
Do6i:or's Houfe; fo that all was done to the Girl's
Mind, and the Conjurer's too. For the Dv 6bor
had two Gunieas o^ Thomas^ for delivering him
from the Devil^ (Who could do it cheaper!) and
twenty of the good Wife's Friends, and the Lady
that gave the Money thought it wtry well be-
Itow'd.
This Management of the Afagiclan, ferves to let
you fee, with what Art and Dexterity thefe Men
play the Do6]:or with our ignorant People; and
well they deferve the Name of Cunning Men\ and
as this is the greateft Part of the Magick they are
Mailers of, fo this is the chief End and Aim of
this Relation, to let the Reader into the Cheat of
it. Here were two Fools manag'd by one cunning
Knave; yet both of them are ferv'd. The Know-
ledge of their Story, and the way to do them both
Juftice, is pick'd out of their own Mouths; yet
they are brought to do one another Juftice, and
believe
378 A S T S T E M
believe 'tis all done by the Magick of the Cunning
Manj he gets their Money, and they come
both off thankful into the Bargain. And here's
not an Ounce of Magick in it all *, here's no deal-
ing with the Devil in ail this. 'Tis nothing but a
Bite^ a kind of a Juggle j a Devil and no Devily a
Dodor no Conjurer, a Vifion without a Spirit, a
Dance without a Fiddle 5 and in a word, here was
Craft, but no Knavery neither: For what he did,
ended in doing a poor injur'd Wench Juftice, and
bringing a young impudent Fellow upon his Knees,
making him take the Woman, not indeed for the
Fear of God, but for Fear of the Devil.
This Account of the Do6tor, or Cunning Man,
may ftand upon Record, as a Specimen of the Ma-
gick which we have now generally pra6tis'd among
u&i or if you pleafe to take it as a Specimen of
what is at prcfent put upon the World for Magick.
For as to the Real Black Art, or Dealing with the
Devil by way of Compad, Intercourfe, Witchcraft,
and fuch like, we find fo little of it left, that we
have fome rcafon to fay 'tis quire out of Ufe, and
we have heard very little of it in this Part of the
World for many Years.
Not that we are much better than our Anceftors,
nor have we feen any thing in the Manners of the
People lefs addicted to Sorcery than formerly j but
Cuftom has made Men turn Magicians to them-
felves, we feem to carry on our Correfpondencc
with Hell fingle handed, and by a kind of immedi-
ate Intercourfe > fo that we want no more the Help of
the Magician^ whatever we do of the Magick. And
here I think the Magick it felf being as it were
brought to a Conclufion, the Hillory of it is juftly
at a Conclufion alfo. The Arts of Hell are
now no more carry'd on by particular Inftruments,
and by way of ProfefTion j the Black Art is at End 5
the Devil having no more need of the Magicians,
has
of M A G I C K. 375^
has drop'd them, and manages his Affairs himfelfj
and the Magicians having no other Accefs to the
Devil^ than what is Imaginary, and carry'd on by
meer Legerdemain, whatever it was formerly, their
Number is decreased, and in a manner worn off by
Time 5 fo that you have now nothing left but a
few Jugglers, Cunning Men, Gypfies and Fortun-
tellers. In ihort the Trade is decay'd, and we may
fuppofethe Managers of the Black Negotiation have
turn'd their Hands to other Employments.
CHAP. VI.
Of raijing the Devil by Magical Operations ;
whether the Magicians really have fuch a
¥ower or no^ afid if they have^ ^ujhether it
is ferfornid as an Art^ and by the Confe-
quence ofMagical Experiments^ or whether
it is by Concert and mutual Confent^ be-
tween Satan and the Magicians.
RAifing the Devil has been thought by fome
to be a Branch of Witchcraft rather than Ma-
gick'y and then it {hould not be mentioned in this
Places but the Point is not fully decided. It fecms
both the Worthy Profeffions have pretended to it,
and perhaps both have attained to pra(S:ife it, and
fo it may be reckon'd among the Occult Sciences, in
common to the Praditioners of boch Kinds, and
then may be properly treated of in which part of
our Undertaking we pleafe.
It is a kind of a vulgar ExprefTion, and has not
much Propriety in it, / mean that of raifing the Devil -y
for the Devil is not rais'd, he is rather brought
down. As his Abode is exprefly faid to be in the
upper
38o A s r s r E M
upper Regions, and his Principality is in the Air,
he is not fecchM oar of the Earth 5 and as fomc
have thought with the ftamp of a Foot, as if he
iodg'd under u^ and we knock'd for him, as the
fick Body knocks upon the Floor for the Nurle to
come up Stairs, and fpeak to him.
Satan certainly is not far out of Call, tho' 'tis flill
fo meting doubtful in what particular Element he
inhabits.
I. Not in the Earthy (fay I) becaufe then he
would be impower'd to fhake the World with
Earthquakes, overturn Cities and Towns, and give
Mankmd perpetual Didurbances, and perhaps would
be oblig'd to do fo as often as he mov'd from Place
to Place. Nav, it would feem neceflary that the Earth,
notwith Handing his fpirituous Nature, mud fuffer
fome Convulfions, Diflocations, and Openings, or
fome or other Diftortions, every time an old Woman
had Occafion to fpeak with him.
t. Not in the Sea: this is apparent by the Devils
o^ Gadarene^ who befought Chriffc not to fend them
away into the Deep. It feems they have an Averfion
to the Water, and that therefore Inllindtled the Herd
of Swine to run into the Sea, to deliver themfelves
, from the Devil^ fuppofing he would leave them
when they came there. But the Hogs it feems
were not fagacious enough to find their Way ouc
again, or to conlider that before they went in,
l^uke viii. ?i, 33.
3. Not in the Fire-, Becaufe that Element is ap-
propriated for their final State, is to be their Pri-
fon, and the Place of their Punifhment> and as
they have at prefent an Interval for A6tion, fo they
mull have a Medium of Space for their Refidence
during the time of A6i:ion.
4. It muft then be in the Jir^ or airy Regions;
and as we have reafon to believe that they are not
confined to the Atmofphere of this Globe the
Earth,
of M A G 1 C K. 38,
Earth, which compar'd to them, their Numbers,
and the Extent of their Operations, would be by-
much too narrow a Place for them, too much pre-
fcrib'd and limited, and give them no room for
A6lion in proportion ro themfelves> fo T am wil-
ling to allow Satan to be in Capacity, (at lealt able)
to vifit all the Atmofpheres and Spaces in the im-
menfe Wafte, whether of habited, habitable, or
uninhabited Bodies 3 and whether in thofe we call
Planets, or fuch Bodies as we have no Name for,
becaufe no Knowledge of.
Thus the Devil cannot complain that I have not
given him room enough, fince I have deny'd his
Locality to no Place but Heaven^ where he cannot
come, and perhaps does not now defire it, and
the other grofs Elements which could not contain
him.
The Devil being Refident, chiefly at lead,
in that invifible World, the Air, and which we
particularly call the World of Spirits, our bringing
him out into Company is very unworthily call'd
railing the Devil -^
for how can that be rais'd up,
which is already not below?
However, if we will talk intelligibly, we mud:
call things as other People call them, and fpeak of
them as other People underftand them, that they
may know what we talk of, and know how to
think upon what we fpeak to them about. Having
therefore no other way of exprefling it, you mull:
be content to hear me fpeak of railing the Devil^
tho' ac the fame time I tell you 'tis Nonferife in the
very Terms, and contrary to Nature.
But to hold you no longer upon fettling Preli-
minaries, the Point in liand is, Can the Magicians
who we are now fpeakingoF, raife the Devil^ or can
they not ? Can the Alagick Art perform this
high Operation, is it in the reach of the Profeflion,
and is Satan fubjeded to it } is he obliged to come
when
4
38i A S Y S T E M
when he is calPd, when fuch and fuch Words of
Command are given out, fuch and fuch Methods
us'd, fuch and fuch Words repeated ? is he rous'd,
as the Keeper rouzcs the Lions in the Tower^ di-
ilurb'd from his Abode, and oblig'd to come away ?
or as the Huntfman unharbours a Deer, by his Horn
and his Hallow ?
If the De'vil is under this Neceffity, and is thus
at the Summons of every Glafs Trumpet, as we
may call it, that every Scoundrel rafcally /7>^/r^-(r<^/^r
and Circle-maker can fetch him up, when they think
fitj I muft fay, I think Satan is no free Agent;
He is very far from being a Prince, and a Prince
of the Power of the Air. Nay, there are fo many
rational Objections againfl it, fo many Difficulties,
Abfurdities, and even Impoffibiliries in it, that I
think there is hardly room for any farther Difpute
about it ; the thing has nothing in it rational, or
agreeing to common Senfe.
But how is it done then ? for that it is fo, and
that the Devil does appear, when they call, does
come, when he is fent for, and that by the meaneft
of thofe Creatures who have thofe Dealings with
him, is not to be deny'dj nor never has been deni-
able fincc the Witch of Endor\ Days, nor will it
want Confirmation on many Occafions fince that
:
Did not fhe put it to Saul^ who he would have her
bring up? intimating that fhe could bring up whom
fhe pleas'd, even the Devil himfelF, if he wanted
him.
It muft be then by Concert and Agreement j for
if the Devil can't be forc'd out of his Den, if he is
not conjur'd up, as we call it 5 he muft be invited
in a friendly manner, and prevail'd upon by En-
treaties, or expeded by Agreement > and in both
thefe Cafes 'tis much more ageeeable to our Under-
ftanding, and we can conceive of things with much
more Propriety.
Either
of M A G 1 C K. 583
Either he is invited by Entreaties and Petitions,
importun'd and earneftly defir'd to come j and this is
a kind of Peculiar 5 for that it is a Reality we have
no room to doubt. I fay, 'tis peculiar to thole
Countries where the Devil is worfhip'd as a God,
where they bow the Knee, and, as the Indians call
it, fiiy O to him as a fupreme Power. That he
willingly obferves thefe Summons, and comes when
they defirc him, is eafy to fuppofej as he is a poli-
tick Devil, and wilHng to preferve his PofTeflion a-
mong them, willing to be worfhip'd and ador'd, as
he mod obfequioufly is upon thofe Occafions, and
which he in a manner triumphs over his Maker by,
as if he had gain'd a Victory, had conquer'd
thofe Parts of his Dominions, and taken them from
him by Force.
Or on the other hand, he is oblig'd by Contradt,
between himfelf and thofe Infernal Merchants that
trade with him. I fay, he is oblig'd to come when
they have Occafion for him^ and in this cafe he
mull perform his Promife, or elfe he would not
maintain his Credit, and would not be trufted again.
Thus, in one, he is bound to come as he is a cun-
ning Devilry and knows his Inrereflj and in the o-
ther Cafe, as he is an honell Devil, and keeps his
Word 5 tho' the laft is fubje6t to many Breaches
andFalfifications, and he is not always as good as his
Word neither.
All the Difficulty that lies before us here, is, how
he makes his Bargains. Witches «nd Wizards, they
tell us, fign Contrads, let him prick their Hand5,
and fign with their Blood 5 Hellilh Doings ! buc
I do not tell you I give anyCredic to them. But the
Magicians^ who, it is luppos'd, arc Perfons of a fu-
periour Dignity, feem to ad: upon a better foot,
and by the Help of what they call Art 5 have to do
with him in a fuperior Way 5 what that Way is,
and what Art it is to be caird, that brings the
Affairs
384 A S Y S r E M
Affairs of Hell into fuch a Management, is the
great Queftion before me.
It is true, the Magicians deny it, and Dr.
JBoreman would have told you he fcorn*d your
Words 5 he raifed no Devil^ he had to do with no
evil Spirits, he dealt with no fuch Cattle 5 but on
the contrary, that he laid the Devil when other
People raifed him 5 that he cured Houfes that were
haunted, and turned the Devil out of Doors when
he was got in 5 all which I believe as ftedfaftly as
I do that St. Dunftan took him by the Nofe with
a pair of red hot Tongs j or that St. Francis would
have nothing to do with him, when he appeared
to him in the Shape of a Bag of Money; or that
Si. Ignatius refifted him, when he tempted him in
the Shape of a naked beautiful Lady.
Where, by the way, if the Legend Makers of the
Romip Church could prove thofe two Paffages
to be true in Fa6b, fo that we could no more doubt
them, we ihould have much more Reafon to take
thofe two Perfons for Saints than ever I thought
we had. It mud be confefs'd, the thing would
be rare in itfelf, to fee a Pried kick a Purfe of Gold
out of his Way upon the Road, and not think it
worth his while to take it up: So, to fee a young
Lady, beautiful and charming, offer herfelf to a Prieft,
and he turn from her, as Jofeph from his Miftrefs,
]ookM a little more Saint-like than I muft own I
fhould expe6l from any of the Tribe, efpecially on
the Roman Side of the Queftion. I hope our own
Church has abundance of fuch Saints among the
Clergy, tho' I may not have the Honour to be
acquainted with many of them.
But thefe Men of Art can raife him 5 that feems
to be a Truth too folid to be deny'd; and I muffc
not hazard my Reputation fo much as to oppofe
all the old Women that have feen him, or dream'd
they faw him : So that I mufl take it for granted,
that
of M A G I C K. 385
th^t they can raife him > tho' I believe it no more
than I do that Dr. Boreman could lay him when
other People had raifed him, which 1 take to be
whimfical and ridiculous.
But fuppofing then, for Difcourfe fake, that they
can raife him, as they call it j What is it^ and how
is it done ?
As to what it is, I take it to be no more than
this 5 that the De^'il is pleafed, at their Defire figni-
fy'd to him in fach manner as to the Magician in his
great Wifdom feems meet^ to alfume a Vifibiliry, and
pt- on fuch a Shape or Perfon as he and the Ma-
gician agrees upon for the prefent Purpofe. This
bemg granted, two Things neceffarily follow:
1. That the Devil and the Magician really cor-
refpond.
2. That the Devil was prefent before, only not
vifibly.
/»/?, That the Devil and the Magician corre-
fpond:By Correfponding mud I think be undcr-
ftood that the Magician knows where Satan isj
that Meafurcs are concerted between them, how
to converk^ 5 as was the cafe between him and Al-
hrahazen^ of whom already 5 and that by thefe con-
certed Meafures, he can ask the Favour of Satan
as often as he pieafes, to make himfelf vifible
for fuch or fuch an Occafion, as at that time pre-
fents.
2. By thisitfhould feem, according to the Opinion
of Some Icariied in this Wifdom, that thofe Magi-
crans that are eminent in their Pra6tice, have fome
Devil or other always with them, vidble to them-
felves, tho'invifibleto others > and that they both fee
and converfe with them conrinually. This is very
rational to believe, and is what 1 take to be that
which the bcripture means by having a Familiar
Spirit 5 and that Menajfeh had fuch, the Text is po-
C c ^ ficive
A SYSTEM
fitive in. Now that tbefe Men or Women, whe-
ther Magicians or what you pleafe to call them,
can defire the Favour of their Familiar or Seconda-
ry Devil^ to afiume a Shape and put on ViUbihty,
I make no queflion of j it feems to be no great
matter, and to have no great Difficulty in it. On
the other hand, thefe feem to be the only People
that can raife the De^uil j for how fhould any body
elfe do it upon fuch common and ordinary Occa-
fions, if he was not at their Elbow ? how could
they call him with muttering over a little Gib-
bcrilh, and talking it in Whifper too? The Devil is
not Omnifcient 5 he cannot, at the Diftance of his
airy Dwelling, know the Thoughts of the Agent,
or fee the Circles and Figures he draws ^ he muft
therefore be invifibly prefent with him, can fee his
Circles, Croflesand Figures, and all his Motions, whe-
ther publick or private j and I infift upon it, that
none can raife the Devil in this manner but fuch
Men as thofe, that have a certain and conftant fn-
tercourfe with him. I do not fay that the Ma-
gicians have this Correfpondence with him, nor do
I fay or believe that all of them can bring .9^/^;/ into
Apparition when they pleafe 5 but this I do both fay
and believe, that thofe that can or do thus raife him,
.as we call it^ do it by this Means, and have fuch a
Correfpondence and Intimacy with him, and that it
can be done by no other.
All the Notions which we can have of the Devil^
founded upon the Scripture, or upon Reafon, feem
to jullify this Opinion > for unlefs we fhall allow
him to be Infinite, Omnifcient and Omniprefent, (and
that would be to make him a God) we cannot make it
rational that he ihould be commanded into Vifi-
bility and Adtion jufl; when we pleafe.
If he is confin'd to Locality, if he is any-where,
and that Any-where is Some-where, then he mult
have
of M A G 1 C K,
have fome fettled Intelligence eftablifhcd between
him and Mankind for the carrying on his Bufinefsj
and this muil be carried on by the Agency of fome
Spirits, it cannot be by Voice only, by mecr Whi-
fper and Suggeilion, if he be not prefentj for tho'
it may be true that Spirits converfe without the
Help of Voice, yet infernal Spirits cannot a6l, as the
Infinite Eternal Being a£bs, namely, by infinite ex-
tenfive Knowledge j they muft converfe by the fn-
ftrumentality and regency of their Perfons : it is
true it may be imperceptible to human Sight, and
it is fo 5 but there is not the lefs Reality in their
Agency, for that there is not the lefs Perfonality
nor Agency of Perfons or Places on that account;
for That may as really be that cannot be perceived
to exift, as That which is vifible.
Now ftand clear Magick, and fland clear Magi-
cians > for if the Magician can raife the Devil^ he
muft correfpond with the Devil-y and if he corre-
fponds with the Devil^ he muft have a Familiar j or
how does he do it? The Devil muft either be al-
ways by him, or have an Agent Devil in Com-
mifJion always attending him, and always ready to ad:
as he ftiall diredj a Deputy Devil under Orders, and
inftru6led to a6t for him, and to perfonate either
Devil^ or other Shape, as Occafion prefents, or as the
Magician pleafes to direft. It can be no otherwife,
not the Devil himfelf can a<5t upon any other foot.
All we have to fay for our Magicians is, to hope
that what they have to fay for thernfelves may have
fome Truth in it j namely, that they deal with Spi-
rits, but that it IS with good Spirits, not with the
Devil^ or with evil Spirits j and this we have only
their own Words for j we cannot be fure it is fo,
nor will I venture to fay that we have a great
deal of Reafon to believe them 5 at leaft there may
be room to doubt the Truth of it,
Cc i I
A SYSTEM
I would rather advance for them what I have
much more Reafon to believe, and that is, that
they deal with no Spirits at all, either good ar
bad 5 for if I fliould once entertain a Belief that
they really confuited with any Spirits at all, I ftiould
be afraid they were Devils 5 bccaufe, as I have faid
that I believe the Devil would not be at their Beck
at every Turn, fo often as they have Occafion for him \
fo I am lefs oF the Opinion that the good Spirits
would be called backward and forward on their
trivial and frivolous Errands, nor is it rational to
believe they fhould.
Ifthen they have any Spirits, I doubt they areZ)m/r,
not good Spirits 5 bur my more jult^fiable Opinion,
and which I think is really well-grounded, is, that
moft, if not all of them, who pretend to this Converfe
with Spirits, have no Knowledge of, or Correfpon-
dence with, any Spirits at all > but that all the
Cant of their good Spirits, the Inhabitants of
the invifible World, and their Intelligence with
them is a Cheat, a meer Cheat and Delufion, toabufe
the ignorant world, impofe upon the weak, and if
poffible gain themfelves a Charafter and a Fame of
Knowledge and Wifdom, in order to pick Pockets,
and get Money.
How many Tricks do they play with Mankind!
how many Frauds do they put upon us ! under how
many Sham- Appearances do they juggle with us!
'Tis plain, when any fublime Doctrine comes to be
difcufs'd by them, they are all in the dark> they
neither can conceive right themfelves, or teach us
how to make a right Judgment of any thing, but
appear to be empty ignorant Creatures themfelves
;
who have, like Jacob Behemen^ got a high Cant of
myftick Language, Words without Meaning, and,
as I faid before, valued only for their being un-
intelligible, and that entirely foj and very parti-
# cularly
of M A G I C K. 389
cularly too, for that they are fo put together, that
not only no body that hears them can underr
ftand them, but that they do not underlland 'em
themfelves.
This certainly is the juft Chara6ler of moil of the
Magicians we meet with in our Times 5 what may
have been formerly, or what may yet be, where the
Devil has really a Correfpondence with any of thefe
People, and if there are any Alhrahazens alive, I will
not determine 5 but then, 1 fay, either thefe mult
have a more than inrimatc Converfe with the De^
*vil perfonally, as Ali had, or they mull do it by way
of Familiar^ by a conftant attending Agent 5 and
then they are no more Magicians, but Necroman-
cers^ and downright Dealers with the Devil -y and
this is not what we are talking of, it not what
they pretend to, nor is it really in them.
To bring it then down to the Cafe in hand, I
mean about raifing the Devils the prefent Queftion
is of two Parts, Firft^ Whether the Magicians have
a Power to raife the Devil^ that is, to produce an
Appearance or Apparition of the -D^i;//. This, I fay, I
will not deny 5 only that then I fay, they are no more
Magicians, but Witches, Wizards, Necromancers,
or what elfe you pleafe to call thofe People that
have an immediate Converfation with the Devil.
Secondly^ Whether, if they can do it at all, 'tis
done as an Art^ a Syftem, for the Pradice of which
there are Rules and Methods, which being learned
by others, enables them to perform the fame thing,
as an Operation, whether mathematical or other-
wife ? and this I think I may venture to deny 5 becaufe
I think it fubje6ts Satan to fuch a Situation of
Circumftances, as are ipconfiftent with all the No-
tions we have of him as a Spirit, as a powerful
unlimited Seraph, a Prince of the Air, and rvho
fcxcept where his Maker has limited and pref :-
ibt: i
C c 3
airr.)
390 A SYSTEM
him) is placed in a Station inconceivably fuperior to
all human Influence or Operation.
To talk of fere wing the De'vil up into an En-
gine, thac like a Jack in a Box he may be brought
out and fhewn for a Sight to the People whenever
a Conjurer thinks fit, or to be fhewn like a Puppet-
Showfor Two-pence a-piece, I muft needs fay, this
is really difhonouring the Devil himfclf.
What may be done by Concert and Agreement
between the Devil 2in(\ them, is one things but to
talk of bringing him out by an Art or Invention, (o
that, as I faid before, the Artifts may call him in, or call
him up, when they pleafej this would be raifing
him indeed, in the very litteral Senfe of the Word
}
and may be, for ought I know, what was the true
Meaning of the Expreflion at firft. And I muft ob-
ferve here, this raifing the Devil is an old way of
fpeaking, and was formerly much more in ufe a-
mong us than it is nowj for 1 am not yet deter-
mined in the matter fully, whether it be a Fad or
a meer proverbial Speech : My Opinion at prefent
muft neceflarily be for the latter j for as to raifing
him, 'tis, as I have faid already, a piece of Nonfenfe,
becaufe (i) it intimates that he is fctch'd up ab in-
ferisy from Below 5 whereas I have given many
good Reafons to move you to believe he is already
rather Above than Below : and, (2) Becaufe I can
give you many more to prove, that if he was Be-
low, that is to fay, in Hell^ in the bottomlefs Pit
it felf, as we have too much fancy'd he is j all the
old Women and old Witches, and all the Prayers
in the Parifti, read backward, all the Circles and
Figures, all the Paw-waws and Conjurings in the
World, could never fetch him out again j 'till He
comes, who has the Key of the Bottomlefs Pity and
'who JhutSy and no Man can open.
We
of M A G I C K.
We are told that St. Peter gave our holy Father
of St. Angela the Keys of Heaven-, but I doubt he
has not the Keys of t'other Place tooj if he has,
he has been but a forry Jaylor, for the Devil has
been abroad thefe four thoufand Years to our
Knowledge, and continues Hill at large j not a
Conftable can take hira up, even a Scape IVarraut
cannot apprehend him.
As he is then at large^ tho' he is a Prifoner too
in one Senfe, but as 1 fay the Devil is at lan^^e, he
is then a free Agent as to us, he goes to and fro^ in
or throughout the Earthy and vjalks tip and down
therein^ Job. i. 7. He has free Liberty o't Egrefs and
Regrefi^ can go and come, when, where and how he
pleafes.
I mufl plead for Liberty^ you (qq^ tho' it be for
the Devil. It has pleafed his Maker to give this
roaring Lion Liberty to go up and down, fecking,
t^c. and how came he to fell or lofc that Liberty ?
How came the Magician to be the DeviPs Jay lor,
that he fhould have him in his Cuftody, to call hitn
out when he thinks fit? If it is fo, 'tis a voluntary
Confinement, and the Devil finds his Account in
it, or he would never fubmic to it 5 fo that it mufb
be by a Confent of Parties, and then we come into
the Road of things again 5 that. is to fay, that the
Devil may confent to appear v/hen he is fo and fo,
•and for fuch and fuch Purpofes, required 5 but this
is quite another thing than what the Magicians are
faid to do J I muft therefore give it againli: them.
The Devil is not to be raifcd by Art j no Magick,
no Conjuring, no Circles or Squares, no Prayers read
backward, no, or forward either, will bring him
out, unlels he pleafes, and finds it for his Purpofe.
If he comes at all, he comes of himfelf, and about
his own Bufinefs, or by Agreement with his own
Domefticks, fuch as old Mother - of Endor^
C c 4 or
391
A S Y S T E M
or Mother Lackland of Ippwich^ or fuch as he is in
actual Confederacy with 5 but as for your Preten-
ders to Art, that they can raife him, and lay him,
fetch him in or fend him out, 'tis all a Cheat, and
the Magician has this to be faid in his Favour, that
he really is not fo intimate with the Devil as he
fays he is.
CHAP, VIL
Seeing^ as the Magicians preteitd^ they do not
T>eal with the Devil, or raife the Devil,
Who it is they do 'Deal withy how is
thetr Correfpondence managed^ and why do
they "Deal with Good Spirits^ by Conju^
rings and the Black Art ?
THERE remain but two Qiicftions then,
which have any Difficulty in them, to fpealc
to in this Affair of Magickj the firft is the natural
Confcquence of what is faid before 3 If the Magi-
cian cannot raife the Devil^ who and what it is he
does raife? for we will have it that he has Spirits
about him : If they are not evil Spirits, as he will
aflert in his own Defence, what Spirits are they, and
by what Power or Influence does he maintain fuch
a Correfpondence among the Intelligent Beings of
the invifible World, as to procure rhofe fuperior
Angelick Creatures to appear upon Earth, either at
his Requell, or upon fuch Occafions as he repre-
fents to them ?
There is too much Difficulty, I had almoll faid
Abfurdity, in this Part, for us to come into it, as
the Magicians pretend to dcfirej they would
-'
have
of M A G I C K. 393
have us believe that all they do is by the Aid aixi
AfHftance of thefe happy Intelligent Beings, that
they, upon the meer Principle of Affection to
Mankind, and meerly from their Beneficent Na-
ture and Difpofition, are ready at all times to af-
fift their faithful Agent or Servant the Magician^ in
doing a6Vs of Chariry, Kindnefs and Benevolence
to their Fellow-Creatures.
It is true, the Magician by this puts a great
Compliment upon himfclf, and fuggefls that he is
himfelf a general Bleffing to Mankind 5 and that as
fach thefe Generous and Beneficent Beings fin-
gle out them (the Magicians) as the proper Inftru-
ments of their Kindnefs to their Fellow-Crearures;
and that they even could not a(51:, at lead not fo
fully atid effe6tually5 without them.
That therefore it is, thofe fuperior Beings are
pleas'd to converfe with thefe Magicians^ and com-
municate to them a fuperior Knowledge of things,
making them ufeful to Mankind, and giving them
a Reputation for their Wifdom, that fo the div^
flreifed People may apply to them for Affillance,
Diredtion and Counfel.
But then the fecond Qucftion i'^. How do thev
converfe with them, by what means do thofe good
Spirits come to know when the Magician has any
thing to be aflifted in, and in what manner do they
claim or defire their Affiftance? Now the Diffi'
culty of this Queftion raifes a Doubt almoft-4111-
anfwerable againft the Truth of the Magician*s An-
fwer to the firft.
They tell us they converfe with the good Spi-
rits of the invifible World : That they would have
us take as a firlt Principle, a Poftulatum that ihould
be granted i tho' 'tis pretty much to ask too; but
to oblige them as far as with any colour of com-
mon Senfe can be done, let us fuppofe it, tho' f
ean by no means grant it. Hue
3P4 A S Y S T E M
But how then is it manag'd? How is this Con-
verte carry'd on? In a word, how do they come
together ? It muft be either,
1
.
By the Magicians applying to thefe Spirits for
Advice when they want it.
2. Or by the Spirits ofBcioufly coming to them
upon fuch Occafions, of their own mecr Good-
nefs.
3. Or thofe good Spirits muft be always prefent,
and to be Teen, fpoken to, and converfed with, with-
out calling, or without leeking to be call'd.
I mull be lb plain with our Magicians^ as to fay, that
1 do not Tec how either of thele three can be made
out by them j nor yet how they can defend them-
felves from the Charge of Diabolick Magick, un-
lefs they make out all the three, and that very
clearly too.
I. As to Magicians applying to thefe Spirits for
Advice and InteUigencej this I know is their Pre-
tence, this they all alledgej and when the poor
ignorant People apply to them, they make a great
deal of Ceremony with their Circles and Figures,
with Magical Books, Hebrew or vfr^^/V/^ .
Chara-
£ters, muttering of hard Words, and other Barba-
rifms innumerable J Juft, in a word, as the old
Necromancers do, when they confult with the
Devil.
Now, is there any thing of all this requifite
in order to converfe with a good Spirit ? did the
Prophets of old ufe any thing of this Mimickry,
when they went to enquire of the Lord? If they
would have their Art be caird the Sacred Science,
and we muft believe that they converfe with Hea-
venly Beings, what need of all thefe Amufements,
thefe Conjurings and Paw-wawings?
Will they make us believe that the good Spi-
rits are to be us'd as the Wizards and Witches ufe
the
of M A G I C K.
the Devil? that they are to be brought down by
Mutterings and Conjurings, by Poftures andDiftor-
tions, or (as our Dancing- Mailers talk) by Gro-
tefque Characters ? This would do very little to
oblige our Reverence, Nor to me, would it look
like any thing but talking to the Devil.
U it is done to put an Amufement upon the
ignorant People that come to them, and to give
a Soleminity (as they call it) to the thing, then 'tis
evident it is done to cheat them. For what Oc-
cafion could there be for fuch things, if they were
really about to converfe with the exalted Spirits
of a heavenly Kind, and Inhabitants of the invifible
Regions?
It is manifeft they apply to their invifible an-
gelick Spirits, juft as the other fort of People
do to the Devil. Their Ceremonies of Ad-
dreft arc much the fame, and when the poor ig-
norant Stranger fcems furpriz'd at it, they tell
him he fhould not fear, for they are not going
to raife the Devil -y
granting clearly that there was
good reafon to fufped: it.
If they are Honefl, why then will they not tell
us the reafon of all thcfe Barbarifms? What
Caufe, and what Necefficy, when they are apply-
ing to Heaven, to a6t juft as thofe do who
apply to Hell? Let them examine Hiltory or An-
tiquity, nay let them examine Nature 5 are the
Application to God and Idols the fame? The
Devil may mimick the Methods of the beft Ser-
vice, and feek to be ferved in the fame manner
as his Maker 3 but we no where read that ever
the Servants of God mimick'd the Devil -^ 'till
now.
Let them look at that eminent Time, when
the Prophet Elijah brought himfelf and the Priefts
of Baal to a Teft for the Truth of their Wor-
fhip,
39y
39<5 A S Y S T E M
fhip, and the Reality of the God they wor-
flijp'd: The Idolatrous Priefts began their Pagan
Rites, their Sacrifices were alike j that was ap-
pointed by the Prophet, becaufe they fliould not
lay but their Idol Devil had equal Honour done
him, as the true God had, in a Proportion.
But when they came to the Service of the
Priefts, the Idol-Priefts us'd their Exorcifms, their
Conjurings, their Ecftafies and their Barbarifms,
leaping up upon their Altars, and dancing to
their Q ^d.^ then cutting themfelves with Knives,
and the like.
But when the truly reverend Prophet came to
begin the facred Office, and the Apparatus of lay-
ing the Sacrifice upon the Wood was fimply per-
formed > what d\6 Elijah? nothing, but in a folemn
manner, and in the Audience of all the People,
?ind in the \ ulgar Tongue, that they might all
liiiderftand what was faid, and with a loud Voice,
c?X\ upon the True God to hear him, and to
giorifie himfelf in the Sight of the People^ and
God d'd hear him, and magnified his Power ac-
cordingly_, t^ the Convidion of the People, even
|Co the Conviction of their Senfes.
Bring this down to our Cafe now. Here is a
fet of Men pretending to confult the good Spi-
rits, Inhabitants of the fuperior Regions, and who
dwell in the angelick World, where-ever that is.
To thefe they give all the adorable Names they
can devife, in ftrange and Outlandiih Terms, and
advance them in their Notions, that they may
raife the Regard of their wondering, but ignorant
Admirers.
When they have done all this, they apply
to them juft after the Pattern of the Wizards
and Necromancers in their enquiring of the Devil^
with Mutterings and Whifpers, with hard and
.'
exotick
of M A Q I C K.
exotick Words, and unintelligible Speeches-, as ^f
the good Spirits did not underibnd Enf.'(^
well as Arah'ick and Hebrew^ or as w--
unmeaning, unfignifying DevH- Lafigi' ' •, i
J r.,v .i
of their own forming, witnout. -•• '
Uiage
among Men, but fuch as they pleai
:
up-
on it.
How can this be rfconc»rd to the converling
with Good Spirits? Intelligent and B Jieficenc
Beings, who partake of the Heavenly Nature,
and are always inclined to do good to M nkind,
who afTift the Indigent and DiftrefTed, and piote£b
thofe that arc in Danger, direct in Dijfficulties, and
are ready on all Occafions 'o do good Offices and
Ads of Kindnefs to every one?
How are they thus ready and beneficent, if they
are thus to be cali'd out of their happy Abodes,
like Devils^ with Spells and Conjurations, with
Necromancy and Wizardilm? Were they fuch
blelTed, bountiful, and ben'- fi cent Beings, and io ready
to help and affifl: Manlond in times of Dif-
ficulties, prote6b them from Evil, and from evil
Spirits, 'twould be but reafonable to fuppofe they
fhould give fome Dire6tions to Mankind, how to
obtain and procure then Affiftance, when they
want it.
It is fuppofed, if thefe Spirits are fuch good,
fuch beneficent, compailionate Beings, and fo par-
ticularly inclined to do good to Mankind 5 I fay, it
is to be fuppofed they are fo, by the determinate
Appointment of their Creator j their Heavenly Fa-
ther, from whofe inherent Goodnefs all good
Defires, and all good Thoughts do proceed, as
well in Heaven as in Earth, as well in Angels and
Spirits, as in humane Creatures. Thefe good Spi-
rits then, if they were fuch as is pretended, would
certainly dired Mankind to obtain their Aid, by
praying
35,8 A S r S T E M
praying to the Supreme Being, under whofe Com-
mand and Direftion they immediately are, that
they (the faid good Spirits) might be fent to di-
reft, aflift, and protect thofe that fo defire their
Ailiftance.
It is a fhrcwd Sign to me, that thefe Spirits are
of another Clafs, and that they do not proceed
from Him who is the Author of all Good j that they
muft be apply'd to in fuch a fcandalous manner,
juft as the Devil is apply'd to j that chey take
the Honour to themfelves of being apply'd to dt-
re6tly and immediately, as God himfclf is, and
without giving the Honour to God, the firft
Caufe and Original Author of all Good 5 and that
they at the fame time (loop fo low, as to accept
of the like mean and bafe Methods of being call'd to
for Help, which are ufed when we want to raife
the Devil.
What do the Magicians mean by this uncouth
Jargon, I'll go and confult with the good Spirits
which I converfe with^ and Pll bring you an An^
fwer ? Where arc thefe good Spirits, and how do
they converfe with them? If they would fay, I
will pray to God that he may feiid his Angels,
or fome of his Angels, or good Spirits, to advile
and affift you> this had fome Scnfe in it 5 fome-
thing like the ufual Method : then when we came
to the Magician or Cunning Man, our Language
would be, we pray you Enquire of the Lord for us^
and thus it was when God had his good Prophets,
and his good Spirits to a6t between his People
and him, as much as can be fuppos'd now.
But now the Magicianj inftead of faying I will
enquire of the Lord for you, fays I will con-
fult v/ith the good Spirits of the invifible World,
who I have the Honour to converfe with, and
I will tell you what they fay in your Cafe. Here's
not
of M A G 1 C K 399
not a Word of God, or of what he p! afes to diO^
or not to do, to direct or not to : redj but
thefe good Spirts are to teach and aired 5 as if
he that made thefe good Spirits was out of
the Queftion, and had nothing to do, either with
them or us.
Thefe things, I fay, render it very fufpicious
that there are no fuch things as good Spirts m the
Cafe, efpecially when they are join'd with the
fcandalous manner of their being apply'd to j and
if there are no good Spirits, and they dif-
own all Converfation with bad Spirits, it may
be faid without Offence, (tho' in the vulgar way)
not, What the Devil are they doing? but, What
Devils are they doing with ?
2. But here is a fecond Suggeftion to help
them out, and this is, that they do not go to
converfe with thefe good Spirits, by a fpecial In-
fluence, calling them to their i\{?iftance> but the
good Spirits (thereby ihowing themfelves to be
good and beneficent, as has been faid,) cox^d^t^c^v^di
to come Voluntier, to help and aflilt, counfel and
direct, in cafe of the Diflrefs of thofe helplefs
Creatures called Men % and that they do this offi-
cioufly by the AfTillance of their chofen Ser-
vants the Magicians', who, like the Almoners of a
great Prince, are always laying before their Eyes
Suitable Objeds for their Help and Benevo-
lence.
This is a formal Story, and might have fome
Weight in it, if it were not that it wanted
Truth of Fa6t to fupport it 5 and ihat this is fo^
we muft believe, 'till we get the following Diffi-
culties removed. The firft is, How do they know
the Condirion and Circumftance> of thofe that
want CO be affiited ? That thefe good Spirits
muft either know it by an infinite Prefcience
by
400 A S Y S r E M
by which they mud every one of them know
every thing, and that not every thing that is vi-
fihle to human Eyes and Real, but every invi-
fible and imaginary Thing, the Thoughts, the
Anguifh of the Soul^ the Defires, Wifhcs^
Fears, Terrors, and Hopes of, nor only the par-
ticular Perfons they are to affift, but of all Peo-
ple whatever^ in all Places and Times, and on
every particular Occafion whatever 5 and to do fo
would be to be abfolutely and elTenti.illy Q'.A^
and every one of them feparately foj a Thought
attended with a Heap of horrid Confufions. and
forming dillraded Images in the Mind, fuch as
tend to all manner of Blafphemies on one handj
or grofs Abfurditics on the other.
The next thing is, if the good Spirits cannot
by their own Prefcience know the Condition and
Circumftances of thofe that may want their Afli-
ftance > how, or by whom mull they be, or are
they informed of it ?
Now here is the only Crifis in which the Magi-
cian makes himfelf necelTary 5 for if the good Spirits
had, joined to fo univerfal Beneficence in their Dif-
pofition, an infinite Knowledge of all the Perfons
and their Circumftances who ilood in any need of
their Help, they would then certainly, in confe-
quence of the general good Difpofition of their Na-
ture, immediately apply themlelves to the proper
Objects, and in Compallion to them would relieve
and alliit them of their own free Goodnefs and Be-
neficence, not needing the Interpofition of any o-
ther Agent whatfoever.
But now this we do not find : but thefe good
Spirits, with all the Good-will which they bear to
us, yet fit paflively flill, and fee all the Miferies of
Mankind, and all the Diftrefles which this or that
particular Perfon labours under, and perhaps lan-
guiflies
of M A G 1 C K. 401
gulflies in, and at laft lets him periih without the
lead Help or Afliftance.
This, I think, deftroys the very Notion of their
Prefcience, or elfe it muft deftroy the Notion of
their Beneficence 5 one or other muft drop: they muil
either not know of the miferable Wretch and his
Diftrc{res,who wants their Affiftancej or knowing it,
they muft want a Will or Power to aflift and de-
liver him.
But here comes in the Magician, and he truly,
to make himfelf a necefTary Man in his Generation,
is to be made acquainted with our DiftrefTes and
our Complaints, and he is to lay them before thefc
good Spirit?, and procure their Anfwers 5 in which
Gafe it follows moft naturally,
Firft^ That thofe good Spirits are fliort-fighted,
ignorant and uninformed Beings, 'till they receive
Information from fome inferior Hand: Thus ia
ihort, the Gounfellor at Law j he is ready to give his
Advice in the moft difficult Cafe, and perfe6tly qua-
lifyed and able to direct what you fhould do 5 but
he fits in his Chambers in the Temple or in Lincolns-
Inn, and waits (perfectly paffive in all Bufinefs) 'till
the Client, brought by the Attorney or Sollicitor,
comes to him with his Brief5 and if the Client does
not come, he may fit ftill and be ruined for any
Advice or AfEftance the Lawyer will give him, 'till
lie is asked: Or as the Phyfician > he isMafter of his
Bufinefs, able to diredt and advifc, able to pre-
fcribe a Specifick, a certain Cure, for fuch or fuch
Diftempersj but fits in his Study, and ftirs not out
of his eafie Chair, to do the diftrefs'd People in his
Neighbourhood any good, or to help them in their
greateft Diftrefs, 'till he is fcnt for, and the Cafe laid
before him, and then he fhews his beneficent good
Difpofition: If they have ftaid 'till the Diftemperis
too far gone, he pities them and fhews his Con-
D d cern
