{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lee_nde.html","mytitle":"Lee NDE 187","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lee NDE 187  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Lee NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						639  Lee NDE  187  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 


I was living in Santa Barbara that summer.  I got very sick with a pneumonia-type illness.  I did not go to a doctor.  I did feel very ill and took cough medicine with codeine that I got from a friend.  I think I just felt like I was leaving at one time.  That it was impossible to be in my body.  I remember a tunnel and a far off light.  I remember knowing that going into the light I would not be able to come back.  I struggled and then I came back.  I sometimes wonder if it was real.  I had never heard of a tunnel or about NDE before this happened so why do I wonder if it was real?  It has always bothered me.  I doubt myself yet have felt like my old religious belief is not really the way it is.  My belief is more all encompassing.  I am changed from this experience but still confused.  I feel like I must be very imaginative yet how could I have made it up?

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    August 1972

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Illness    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I felt like I was not attached but did not see my body apart from me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt conscious in that I was alert but my body seemed very remote.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I know that 'now time' is not really important to me.  I do not like being held in time.  I do not like clocks that dictate my life.  I feel like it is not easy being in time and space. It is limiting.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I remember a tunnel but not sure if I entered it.  If I went into the light at the end of the tunnel I could not come back.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was far off and was very bright.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I really have a different belief system but do not really know what it is - I just do not hold to the strictness of my old faith.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I felt I could not go beyond a certain point (the light) or I would not return to this life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I am not sure - I know I decided to not go into the light or maybe even the tunnel.  I am not sure how far into this I got.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   

What is your religion now?      Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am more open, less strict in my faith.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   In my experience I am not sure if it is a real NDE  I just knew that if I passed thru this tunnel and entered the light there was no coming back.  I did not enter the light.  Otherwise I would not be here.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I feel like I have a deeper way of "seeing" things.  I know before a person dies that they are going to die.  It has been difficult because this has happened quite a few times.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I do not think they got it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lee_nde.html