{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1leah_nde.html","mytitle":"Leah NDE 133","mylang":"de"}
          	        Leah NDE 133  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Leah NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						571  Leah NDE  133  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was having a very bad time in my life. At the time, I had told God that if he was real that he should prove it to me. The next week, my appendix burst and I ‘died’. I was, all of a sudden, in a dark room-like place. I started calling for Jesus to help me! I knew I was dead and thought I was going to hell.


Now remember, I had challenged God to prove to me he was there. Anyway, I did not see his face, but he told me it was not my time yet and I had to go back. I really wanted to stay. But again, was told I had to go back. I had a baby at the time and he needed me, plus my time was not up yet. I persisted to stay and I remember just being back in my body.


You see God answered me and showed me he was listening and was there for me. I have never asked him to prove it again. He loves us so much, believe me - I felt it. I hope this survey is real and you are truly interested in my experience. I want people to know the truth - there is a heaven and hell. 

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1992

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death My appendix had burst. [A burst appendix is extremely dangerous if left untreated. It causes the infection to spread throughout the abdomen, which can lead to peritonitis and death.]

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I knew I was dead by the way I felt and by what I saw. I could tell I was not in my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was dead – clinically.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was no time.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I only heard the voice of God.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   On either side of me, like streetlights. At the top, there was a light where God was. It was like the sun blocking his face.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt total fear at first because I thought I was going to hell. Then after that, I felt complete love and assurance. God would take care of me. I had no more doubt at that point. I can't describe to you the feeling of comfort and love I felt. There are no words to describe it in the human language.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I know that God gave me a special gift when I was questioning my faith and I was very special to him and so are you. And that we all have a purpose being here even if we don't know what that is.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     What I learned was God does exist and that he is a very loving God and he is so big and comforting. The love he has is so powerful. I had some insight at the time about life's mysteries. I remember thinking, ‘Wow, now I know.’ But I don't remember what I learned. I guess God doesn't want us to know certain things. Now I feel that's why faith is so important, so God can see how much faith you have in him.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     When I began to move forward, I only went so far and I could not go further on my own or move to the side; God wanted me where I was to listen to him.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have no doubt I have a purpose for living.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I remember and know my experience. The only thing I can't put in to words is the total love I felt.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The faith I developed.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    There are people who accept it and people who don't.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1leah_nde.html