{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lee_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Lee K NDE 4310","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lee K NDE 4310  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lee K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2134 Lee K NDE 4310  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember my mother rushing toward me with a terrified look on her face. I remember being afraid as she said my name repeatedly and wondering if I was in trouble. She scooped me in her arms and ran to the front door where we lived in a married college student complex. From high in the air, I watched her holding my still body as she screamed for help, screaming that her baby was dying. I remember feeling sad that my mother was so upset, but at the same time, I felt very peaceful. I watched the scene from inside the apartment and could only see the back of her. Very quickly, I was laid on the sofa and several adults surrounded my body. I watched from high above as one neighbor initiated rescue breathing. I had felt nothing but peace until that point. 

Suddenly, I was stirring and crying as vomit seared my lungs. I had felt no fear until that point. Then I was terrified. One thing about this episode that amazes me is the depth and quality of the vision. I remember the shade of my mother's lipstick, color of her blouse, color of the sofa and even the nightgown I was wearing. I have very few memories of when I was three or four years old, but this event is as clear today as when I experienced it forty-seven years ago.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Febrile seizure with aspiration of vomit and stopped breathing.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As my body was laid on the sofa.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As my body was laid on the sofa.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw things I normally wouldn't have paid attention to.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear the panic and chaos going on below me, I just felt quiet peace.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     As an adult it helped guide me away from organized religion and to the spiritual place I am today.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'very spiritual, no organized religion'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     As an adult it helped guide me away from organized religion and to the spiritual place I am today.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   At age three I figured this happened to everyone so never mentioned it till I was a teenager.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I just know that I have had psychic events throughout my life. I had a dream once where I was a passenger in a car of someone I didn't know very well. It was nighttime. I didn't know she had children, yet in the car, I saw two children approximately nine and twelve. The woman was dark skinned and hair being Lebanese and I would not have imagined the girl with long blond hair to be her daughter. There was confusion and suddenly we were outside her jeep and the boy and mother seemed to be okay. But there was something terribly wrong with the girl. Later that next day, I went to work and passed her leaving the building with those two kids who had accompanied her.  It was Christmas vacation and the children were out of school. I later got her number and called her promising that I wasn't a crazy lady but about the dream. She was concerned because her kids had to travel with her as she did business for the rest of the week. Her husband also listened to my call and they decided to have the kids travel with him for the week. I said I thought it would happen in three days so they wouldn't be afraid forever. That next Tuesday she came into work and as I apologized, hoping that I didn't terrify her, she stopped me to tell me that she was glad that I had. Three days after my call was New Year's Eve. She was on her way to pick up the babysitter. The kids wanted to go but she wouldn't let them. On her way, she hit a patch of ice, went off the road and totaled her car. She was very grateful the children weren't involved.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As I said previously I never mentioned it until I was nineteen because while growing up I assumed that at some point everyone got sick and had similar experiences.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As a child I didn't doubt that it was real, I had no reason not to believe what had happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I not only believed it at the time, but as a hospice nurse I hear and experience so many things from patients and their families that only reinforces this belief. I have told stories to other hospice nurses of events that can't be explained otherwise to the point where they get chills.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Twice I have tried to submit this form and it made me chose a religious affiliation when the answer was 'none'. Very annoying.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lee_k_nde.html