{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lee_fde.html","mytitle":"Lee FDE 3458","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lee FDE 3458  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lee FDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						1527 Lee FDE 3458  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had an out of body experience right before the impact. My last thoughts were, 'Well God, hope I make it out alive.'

The next thing I know I was in the passenger side of the car looking at myself. The strangest part of it was I knew I was out of my body because I saw myself out of my body in the passenger side and at the same time when out of my body I was thinking, 'This is weird,' looking at myself then looking at my body. I then watched my body come up a couple of inches off the seat leaning forward towards the windshield. Next thing, I was back in my body watching my face hit the glass. The glass cracked but right before my face hit everything looked like gold, that was all I could see, maybe it was because the car was gold? Everything was like in slow motion, it was only a split second but seemed longer than that.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/6/03

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Was in a car wreck a T-bone as they call it and almost went completely through windshield face first.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't understand the question but I was fully alert during the whole thing.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything seemed like it was in slow motion.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     When I saw my out of body self it looked kind of like seeing through it but my out of body self saw myself just fine.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I saw my out of body self looking at me. Does that count?

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Weird feeling.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     If you're talking about going to church, then I would say no. Or praying every day, I would say no. I believe there is a God but not in a religious way. I don't consider God as being religious or associated with religion but a part of everything not just one thing.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     If you're talking about going to church, then I would say no. Or praying every day, I would say no. I believe there is a God but not in a religious way. I don't consider God as being religious or associated with religion but a part of everything not just one thing.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Not from this one.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        1 Seeing my out of body self.  2 Seeing myself out of body.  3 My out of body self looking at myself.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it to a lot of people right after it happened. Their reaction was 'You had an out of body experience?' And at that time I would tell them 'No.' Thinking to myself what are they talking about? Not even knowing that is what I told them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real one hundred percent, told people what happened. Just didn't realize what I was saying at first.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know the mind can play tricks but this was too real to be a trick because I wouldn't have known how far I came off my seat right before hitting the windshield of the car.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This isn't the first time I have had something like this happen.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       A little more detail of what answers you're looking for because I didn't understand some of them fully.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lee_fde.html