{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 4146","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n57_feb_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N57 February 1889","mylang":"de"}
No. LVII.-VoL. IV. FEBRUARY, 1889.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
New Members and A.ssoeiates ..
Annual Business Meeting
Meetings of the Council ..
General Meeting . . . .
Correspondeuce . . . . . . . .
CONTENTS.
eases supplied to the Literary Committee
The CI Haunted House n • • • • • •
Recent Additions to the Library of the Society
Balance Sheet •• . . . . - . . . .
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBER.
PAGE
.. 17
.. 17
•• 18
•• 19
•• 24
.. 26
.. 31
.. 31
.• 32
BANISTER, MAJOR FITZGI<:RALD M., R.A., Junior Army and Navy
Club, London, W.
ASSOCIATES.
LA TOUCHE, MRS., Harristown, Brannoxtown, Co. Kildare, Ireland.
NICHOLLS, REV. T. B., M.A., St. Oswald's College, Tynemouth.
PEAKE, CHARLES WILLIAM, B.A., Woodend, Grange-road, Upper
Norwood, S.E.
PYM, MRS. ANGELA, Bankside, Lunham·road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
SIMS, MRS. GEORGE R., 12, Clarence-terrace, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
U~DERWOOD, REV. CANON C. W., Histon Vicarage, Cambridge.
VERRALL, MRS., Selwyn-gardens, Cambridge.
WILLIAMS, A. C. REDSHAWE, 5, John-street, Bedford-row, London, \,V.C.
ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING.
There not being a quorum present on January 25th (only nine
Members being in attendance instead of ten as required by the Rules)
the meeting stood adjourned to February 1st. The points of interest
were, however, informally discussed on the 25th, the President in the
chair.
An audited statement of the receipts and expenditure for 1888 was
presented to the meeting, and appears in another page. A statement
of the current assets and liabilities at the close of 1888 showed that
the position of the Society had very considerably improved during the
year, there being now a balance of liabilities of £53 only. Against this
~ as to be set the value of the Library, and of the stock of Proceedings.
Digitized by Google
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. [Feb., 1889.
It is probable this deficit will be entirely extinguished during the
present year. The auditor in his letter wished to "bear testimony to
the systematic care with which the A88istant-Secretary h!1d kept the
accounts."
The numbers of the Society had diminished during the year from
667 to 632, but this was in great part owing to the names of a number
of merely nominal Members having been struck off before its close.
No further nominations for seats on the Council having been made,
and those sent round on January 4th being just sufficient to fill the
vacancies, the following were declared duly elected :-Professor J. C.
Adams, Professor W. F. Barrett, Lieut-Colonel J. Hartley, Mr.
Walter Leaf, Professor O. J. Lodge, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Lord
Rayleigh, Mr. H. Babington Smith, and Mr. R. Pearsall Smith.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
Meetings of the Council were held on the 25th of January, and
at the close of the adjourned Annual Busine88 Meeting on the lst;.
of February. The President was in the chair on both occasions, and
the following Members were also present at one or both of the-
meetings:-
Profe88or W. F. Barrett, Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. Walter
Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and J.
Herbert Stack.
One new Member and eight new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected.
The result of the Annual Business Meeting was reported as stated
in separate report.
The following were unanimously elected Officers of the Society for
the ensuing year :-President, Professor H. Sidgwick; Hon. Treasurer,
Mr. H. Arthur Smith; Hon. Secretaries, Messrs. F. W. H. Myers and
Frank Podmore.
The following .Committees were elected, with power to add to their"
number:-
Committee of Reference.-Professor Adams, Professor Barrett,
Professor Lodge, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Lord Rayleigh, Dr. C.
Lockhart Robertson, Professor Sidgwick, Professor Thomson, and Mr.
J. Venn.
Literary Committee.-Mr. Walter Leaf, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr.
F. Podmore, Professor Sidgwick, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
Library Committee.-Dr. A. T. Myers, and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1889.] JO'U'r'nal of S()(''iety for Psychical Research. 19
Finance Committee.-Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr. J. Herbert Stack,
Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor.
The House and Finance Committee presented a Report embodying
an estimate of receipts and expenditure for the current year. Starting
with a balance in hand of .£76 12s., they estimate the income from
8ubscriptions, donations, and sales of publications at .£810 7s. 6d.,
making a total of .£886 19s. 6d. On the other side, the estimated
expenditure, including all money owing at the end of 1888, and all
liabilities incurred to the end of 1889, amounts to .£885. This
jncludes the estimated cost of Parts XIV. and XV. of the Proceedings,
which it is intended to bring out in the course of the year. The
Report was cODsidered and adopted, and some suggestions made in it as
to the issue of the Proceedings were referred to the Literary Committee.
A vote of thanks was passed to Profe880r J. C. Adams for a donation
of three guineas to the funds of the Society, and to Mr. C. C. Massey
for a copy of his translation of Dr. du Prel's work, The Philosophy of
Mysticism.
Various matters of routine business were attended to.
It was resolved that a General Meeting be held on Friday, May
10th, ODe having been already arranged for Monday, March 18th.
The next meeting of the Council will be on Friday, March 1st, at
5 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall on
January 25th. Profeasor Sidgwick was in the chair.
The PRESIm:NT gave an address on the Physical Phenomena of
Spiritualism considered as a subject of scientific investigation. He
held that the evidence brought forward to prove that such phenomena
were caused by intelligent beings, other than living men, was sufficient
to justify a serious consideration of the hypothesis and further
investigation; and he thought that the Society having once declared
the question an open one, ought to be very slow to close it again-
certainly they ought to be slow to close it with a negation, and con-
sidering the ordinary rate of scientific progress, he did not think that a
rapid arrival at a positive conclusion ought to be either demanded or
anticipated.
He was glad that the rille he ventured to suggest when the Societ.~·
was founded, of avoiding paid "mediums" as much as possible, had
been in the main observed; but it was difficult to find private
"mediums," at once able to furnish phenomena of this kind, pri111l.% facie
inexplicable by recognised natural causes, and willing to submit to the
rigorous conditions and repeated experiments which he held to be
Digitized by Google
20 Journal of Society fm' Psychical Research. [Feb.• 1889.
absolutely required, if the possibility of deception, conscious or
unconscious, was to be excluded. And obviously, if this possibility
were not excluded, though the phenomena might still be interesting
and valuable to persons acquainted with the "medium," the testimony
of the investigator could add little to their value: so that the experi-
ments would be almost thrown away, from a scientific point of view.
This difficulty had been found a serious obstacle to fruitful
investigation, but he was not without hopes that it might be overcome.
Mr. T. BARKWORTH then read a paper on "The Analogy between
Hypnotic Phenomena and Certain Experiences of the Normal Conscious-
ness." He held that evidences ofwhat might be called duplex personality
-that is, two distinct forms of consciousness-are constantly pressing
on us in the everyday actions of life. Besides actions properly called
voluntary, we can easily find in our ordinary life instances of acts
suggested and automatic-as when a man, in what is called absence of
mind, takes a familiar route which he has formed no purpose of taking,
and which does not lead to his proper destination. Among other
instances of acts requiring complex mental operations performed
automatically, Mr. Barkworth mentioned that he had himself, bY'
constant practice, become able to add up columns of figures rapidly and
correctly while his mind was busily engaged with other subjects. He
attributed this to the operation of standing suggestions-it having
become a standing order of the mind that nine and four are to make
13, &c., it is no longer needful for the mind to re-enact the order
on every separate occasion; the passive or secondary consciousness
automatically obeys it although the mind is absent.
Similarly if a general rule be imposed on a hypnotised subject,
reversing a standing order of the normal mind, it will subsequently
be obeyed by automatic action of the subject, after the hypnotic state
has ceased. This was illustrated by a curious case mentioned by Mr.
Myers at a previous meeting. A certain clerk in a French office having
been hypnotised was told that two and two made five. Next day all
his work went wrong, and it was not for some time discovered that in
every place where two and two came together he had added them as
five. The standing order of his own intellect to treat two and two as
equal to four had been superseded by the new injunction, which con-
tinued to operate, although he had no recollection of receiving it.
But the most striking manifestations of this passive or secondary
consciousness belongs to a class distinguishable as "intuitive-automatic."
An example of this class is musical improvisation, in which-as
described by Mr. Barkworth from his own experience-the will is
entirely inoperative; no decision is formed as to the theme or its
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Researcl~. 21
modifications, and there is not even any knowledge of what the nen
bar will be. II I have"-said Mr. Barkworth-" constantly sat and
listened to my own improvisations, with as much interest as any other
listener might have done and with no moro knowledge of what was
coming next; and this statement applies not only to melody or theme,
but to the most elaborate modulations of harmony." This faculty of
improvisation, moreover, cannot be called into play by voluntary
effort, except to a limited extent.
Mr. Barkworth suggested that the experience of impromptu
versifiers-auch as Theodore Hook-and, to some extent, that of
practised orators, would also serve to exemplify this class of phenomena.
Other examples might be found in the cases of poetry composed in
sleep by persons incapable of versifying in their waking hours: of
which also instances were given from the writer's own experience.
In contrast, then, to our ordinary experience of voluntary intel·
lectual and ratiocinative activity, which progresses by effort and
gradation, we must recognise the existence of a different order of
psychical activities, which is regulated automatically and intuitively,
and progresses per salt'Um and without effort. Talent is exhibited in
the first of these modes of consciousness, genius in the second. The first
is the seat of the intellect, the will, and the conscience, the second of
the emotions, the instincts, and the intuitive powers. It was
further suggested that different kinds of memory belong to the
two kinds of consciousness respectively: to the first or active conscious-
ness belongs the memory that consists of progressive, concatenated
impressions; while the memory of the second or passive consciousness
is of a homogeneous pictorial impression. According to this view, as
it is the secondary or passive consciousness that is manifested in the
hypnotic state, and in the post-hypnotic performance of commands
given in that state, we should expect the secondary memory of a
hypnotised subject to be able to repeat a lesson as well backward as
forward. And experiments that have been made appear to show that
this is the case. Thus in November last, at Mr. Barkworth's request,
Mr. G. A. Smith, having hypnotised one of his subjects, read him a
sentence, and then told him to write the sentence backwards with the
planchette. On being awakened he remembered nothing about it; he
was then set to work with the planchette, while a newspaper was held
over it, and he was occasionally engaged in conversation. When
the planchette ceased, the following curious result was found to
have occurred. When he was told to write the sentence backward
the intention was that the words only should be written in
the reverse order, but otherwise in the usual way; the subject, how-
ever, had understood the command to be that he should spell the words
Digitized by Google
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb.,I889.
backwards and tum the letters the wrong way. Hence to read the
writing it was neceBBary to hold it to a looking.glaBB; so held it was
quite legible. Anyone trying to do this in his ordinary condition will
find it to be very difficult: but the pictorial memory of the paBBive
consciousness succeeded in doing it without the least hesitation or
difficulty.
A remarkable instance of this pictorial memory is found in a case
quoted by Mr. Myers from Dr. Mesnet. (Proceedings, Part XI., p. 235.)
The subject-a soldier who had received a gunshot wound in the head
at Sedan-" was writing on a sheet of paper which lay on a pile of
about 10 similar sheets. We quickly drew the top sheet away,
and his pen continued to write on the second sheet." The automatic
nature of his action proves it to have been the work of the passive
consciousness. This proceBB was repeated again and again, till on the
fifth sheet there was only his signature at the bottom. " Nevertheless,
he read over his letter on this blank fifth sheet, scattering stops and
corrections over the empty page, each of which corresponded to mis·
takes made on the co-ordinate points of the pages which had been
snatched away from him." He was, therefore, acting upon a pictorial
memory of what he had written on the preceding sheets.
Mr. Barkworth went on to notice other analogies between excep-
tional phenomena of the normal state and those characteristic of the
hypnotic state: as, for instance, between the unconsciousness of wounds
exhibited by soldiers in the heat of battle and hypnotic anresthesia;
and between the absence of moral discrimination in dreams and the
similar non·morality of the hypnotised subject, shown in his unquestion-
ing obedience to commands that would rouse moral rep~gnance in his
normal state. But though incapable of moral discrimination, the
secondary or paBBive consciousness is highly capable of moral educa-
tion: thus dreams more or leBB conform themselves morally to the
standard of a man's waking life.
ProfeBBor BARRETT, referring to the President's address, reminded the
meeting that a committee of the Society had been formed to investigate
the physical phenomena of Spiritualism, of which he was the secretary,
and expressed a hope that any Member or ABBociate of the Society who
might know of opportunities of investigating these phenomena with
unprofessional mediums would communicate with him.
Tuming, then, to the subject of Mr. 'Barkworth's paper, he gave
instances of the secondary consciousness, or automatic action, both in
the normal and in the hypnotic states. He mentioned that on one
occasion in the middle of a lecture, and while conducting a somewhat
delicate experiment, he had caught sight of a friend in the audience,
Digitized by Google
:Feb., 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 23
and had immediately found himself in imagination sitting beside him
and carrying on a conversation with him, quite oblivious of his actual
occupation. On recovering from this fit of absence of mind, he found
that no apparent break had occurred in his lecture and that he had suc-
cessfully carried through his experiment. He al80 described lOme
hypnotic experiments he had made with a lady very like those of Mr.
Gurney's on intelligent automatism mentioned by Mr. Barkworth (see
Proa6iings, Part XII., p. 3, &c., and al80 XL, p.268, &c.). Among
other things he set her a sum in compound arithmetic, telling her to
work it out, and gave her a pencil and paper. He then woke her and
told her to count out loud. She did so, and simultaneously worked
out the sum correctly-a newspaper being between her eyes and the
piece of paper. She had no recollection whatever afterwards of having
done the sum. On trying the same sum in a fully normal state she
found considerable difficulty with a fraction at the end-a difficulty
which vanished on re-hypnotiBation.
The PRESIDENT said that he entirely agreed with Mr. Barkworth in
thinking it scientifically important to search our ordinary experience
for the closest discoverable analogies to hypnotic phenomena. He
thought, however, that milch of what Mr. Barkworth brought forward
as evidence of " duplex consciousness" might be more simply interpreted
as evidence of the remarkable extent to which the human organism
could produce the effects of intelligent volition, unconsciously or semi-
consciously. This may also be said of the automatic execution of
hypnotic cOlJ!.mands in the post-hypnotic state: this does not show that
the hypnotic consciousnesa continues, but merely that it can exercise
influence after it has ceased, through the brain acting unconsciously.
But he quite admitted that the interesting experience of improvisation,
described by Mr. Barkworth, did seem to show a kind of dual con·
sciousness, since he could observe his mind acting without any con·
eciousneBB of himself as willing. He could not agree with Mr.
Barkworth as to the non-morality of dreams; he had had dreams ill
which the moral sentiment seemed to be as intense as the occasion for
it was absurd.
After the close of the discUBBion on Mr. Barkworth's paper,
Mr. F. W. H. MYERS said that it had devolved upon him to prepare
fOT the press the unfinished paper on "Apparitions occurring soon
after Death" which Mr. Gurney had read to the Society on January
28th, 1888. It was hoped that this paper would be published in the
next part of the Proceedings, but meanwhile it was most important to
add, if poBBible, to the number of the caaea cited in it. There was
Digitized by Google
24 Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [Feb., 1889.
great difficulty in finding cases of this sort which were really evidentiaI,
since people usually heard almost at once of the deaths of near relations
and friends, so that if a phantom resembling the deceased person were
seen some days after death it might plausibly be ascribed to grief or
preoccupation of mind with the idea of the departed. On the other
hand, when a percipient saw an unrecognised phantom it was only
rarely that there was opportunity of discovering whether this figure
really corresponded with that of some person lately dead in or near
the room where the phantom was seen. Mr. Myers cited two cases
where there was an imperfect recognition of this kind, and appealed to
his audience to be on the watch for additional examples.
Professor Richet, whose intention to be present at the meeting and
to give an address had been announced, was at the last moment
detained in Paris by the duty of recording his vote at the recent
election.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To ehe Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
DEAR SIR,-The interesting paper read by Mr. Barkworth on the 25th
suggests one or two possible experiments which might be tried by a large
number of members, as there would be no possible risk or difficulty in doing
so. It seems to me that it would be worth while to try how far our'wills can
contro~ our "automatic selves" in cases of slight physical uneasiness, such
as can be removed by ordinary hypnotism, and to record the result. I
should think that in such a case we ought not only to wish, but to will-to
issue a direct and unhesitating command, such as most people find them-
selves doing to planchette, or an automatically-held pencil, when it writes
nonsense. It wight be risky to command ourselves to feel imaginary pains
unless we were quite sure of being able to cure them j but fatigue, hunger
thirst, sleepiness, would be wost harmless occasions on which to try the effect
of self,suggestion that we were not tired, hungry, thirsty, or sleepy j and if
some people found that dyspepsia or headache could in like manner be robbed
of their horrors, so much the better for them. The doctors might,. perhaps.
complain, but the world would be happier.
I made a little experiment of this sort, with good result, going home in the
train after the meeting. I had had a fatiguing day and was seized by an
uncontrollable fit of yawning. I issued a command, exactly as I should t()
planchette or a pencil in automatic writing, and I llot only found myself
able to refrain from yawning, but the inclination left me entirely for quite
half an hour.
The danger of hypnotism weakening the will of the hypnotised person is
one which seems to me to be a real risk, but the only effect the suggested
experiments could have would be to strengthen the power of the will over
Digitized by Google
Feb.,1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 25
the physical organism, and might be carried onwards with great advantage
to the automatic process of thought-a system of scientific self-discipline.-I
remain, &c.,
AN ASSOCIATE.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIl~,-In connection with Mr. Barkworth's paper, it may be worth telliug
you of my experiences in automatic reading, as I think its working is
perhaps rather unusually complicated.
I often take a Greek or Latin Testament to Church, and follow the Lessons
in it. When my mind has wandered, and I have been thinking hard of
something else, yet, when my attention is recalled, I find invariably that I
am reading in the right place. With the Latin text this, perhaps, is hardly
more difficult than it would be with English; but considering how very
different the order of the words is, not only grammatically, but even in the
order of the thought, in the Greek, it shows a good deal of power of
co-ordination. The New Testament, no doubt, is easier to follow than a new
book would be. Still, my automaton has threaded its way successfully
through the" vials" and "seals" of the Apocalypse, which I cannot claim
as familiar grouud.
Again, there must be a certain emotional interest possible in what oue
reads without attending to it, as I experienced in a rather odd way a few
days ago. The lesson was about the sacrifice of Isaac. At the very begin-
ning, after finding the place in an English Bible, I thought of Mozley'S
essay on it, then of his essay on Jael, and from that to consider carefully
whether it would have been possible for me to present facts more truly than
on a certain recent occasion. This quite absorbed me. Suddenly my atten-
tion was called off by a movement of my hands. I was clutching my book
with both hands as if my life depended on it, and at the critical moment of
the story I had suddenly shifted them to express more intense interest.
Now my ordinary self never attended to the story at all, for even when
my attention was called to it it was only to think at once how ridiculously I
was behaving and to be glad that there was nobody to see it, and then to
reflect on" the abysmal depths of personality. "
For about 12 years I used to read aloud to my grandmother for some-
times as much as two or three hours a day, mostly books that did not interest
me, often with my throat aching too much to attend to anything not very
interesting; and these were favourable conditions for developing the
undesirable facility of automatic reading.
Perhaps it conduced to the same result that for some years I methodically
practised not attending'to the Sunday sermons, which were nearly an hour
long, and attained complete success.
Thus the two threads of continnous suggestion, the sight of the Greek
words, and the sound of the English ones, are, I suppose, unusually easy to
follow, in my case, and there is more subconscious attention to spare for
co-ordinating them.
A.M.
January 25th, 1889.
Digitized by Google
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1889.
CASES SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 823 (Reciprocal).
From Canon --, who does not wish his name. to be given :-
October 6th, 1888.
SIR-At your request I send you the following account of a curious
occurrence which came under my experience nearly 20 years ago.
In the year 1869 I had the care of a small country parish on the western
confines of Yorkshire. In August of that year I was summoned to the
death-bed of a friend living at S--, a town more than 60 miles away.
On arriving at her residence, I was shown to her bedroom. On entering,
the nurse told me that my friend was sleeping, but that she would be
certain to awake in a few moments. I sat down, and almost immediately
my friend awoke, saying: "You here 1 Why, I have only just this moment
returned from B- (my parish). What nice improvements you have made
in the church." She then proceeded to enumerate several very trivial altera-
tions which I had made in the previous week, and of which I had spoken to
no one outside the limits of my parish. I was certainly surprised to hear
the dying person speak so correctly and in such detail of things which she
had never seen. A couple of days later the lady died, and I forgot all about
the matter for some time. I certainly never breathed a word of what she
had said to me to anyone. But about a month, or perhaps less, after her
death I was going out in the afternoon for my usual walk, when an old
servant said she would like to speak to me on a subject which had
puzzled her very much, but of which she had not spoken through
fear of being laughed at. She said that on the day I went to S--
she was in the chancel in the church trimming a lamp, when to
her surprise she saw a lady kneeling in a corner of the church. She
looked at the stranger very intently, who, in a few moments, got up and
passed away through the vestry, nothing more being seen of her. I may
here remark that I was allSured by my servant that all the doors of the
church were locked when she entered. Then I remembered what my friend
had told me on her death-bed. I asked my servant for a description of the
lady she had seen in the church. She gave me a very good one of her, describ-
ing even a curious jacket full of pockets which she was in the habit of wear-
ing when she went to visit the poor. Then I asked her if she remembered
the time of the occurrence; she I!aid the clock was striking three as she went
into the church. That was the exact time of my entering the lady's bedroom.
I next gave my servant a large bundle of photographs, which I always kept in
a locked drawer in my study, and told her to see if she could recognise the
person whom she had seen in the church. She carefully examined the photos,
and passed them on until she came to that of the dead lady; this she
scrntinised very closely, but finally passed on to a few others, returning,
however, very shortly to it. "This," she said, "is the person whom I saw
in the church." I said, "Why did you not fix on it at once 1» She replied,
"The lady I saw in the church was thinner and more drawn in the face than
is shown in the photo; her cheek bones were more prominent, and her lower
jaw protruded. But I am certain that I am not mistaken." She described her
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1889.] JO'Urnal of Society for P8ychical Research. 27
to me as she wu shortly before dt'ath, not u she was in health when the
photo wu taken. I mayadd in conclusion that my servant wu the lut person
ill the world capable of imagining such an appearance; she had not an atom of
the imaginative faculty about her; she had never seen my friend in her life;
I never mentioned to her, or to anyone else, that I had gone to S--, nor
that I had attended the death-bed of anyone on that occasion. There wu
])0 rt'ason why I should mention these circumstances, and I did not mention
them or allY of them.
In answer to enquiries, Canon-- informs us that his old house-
.keeper is dead and that no corroborative evidence can be obtained.
He adds:-
The reuon of my housekeeper being iu the chapel at the time named
was that her duty compelled her to be there about that hour, to trim a lamp
which is perpetually kept burning. Why I so certainly remember the clock
striking three as I elltered the dying lady's room I really cannot say. There
are plenty of simila.r trifling matters which have occurrt'd during my life-
time, of which I have the clearest recollection without being able to say why.
H.-643.
Mr. Myers writes :-
The following case wu received from two ladies, whom I will call
Miss Mary Brown and Miss Lucy Brown. All the names of places and
people (except Mr. Leycester's and Dr. Barker'S) are fictitious, as there
is great anxiety not to hinder the letting of the house in question.
I first received, in July, 1888, an independent account from each
.aistfir. I give here Miss Lucy Brown's, as the fuller. Miss Mary
Brown's differed only in certain minor points, explained below in an
.account of my interview with the sisters. A somewhat earlier account
by Miss Mary Brown is given in Document II.
DOCUMENT I.
About four years ago, in the autumn of 1884, my sister
and I took a house in the town of B., for a year. It was
owned at this time by the heirs of Mrs. Jones. She had bought
it, and finding it too small, had made, three years before the time that
it was let to us, a very large addition to it. After the improvements
were made, she found that the expense had been far greater than she
had expected it would be, and to her sorrow she could not afford to
live in it. She therefore let it to a Mrs. Robinson and went with her
daughter to live in a boarding-house. Those who saw her, during that
winter, say that she was constantly speaking of her disappointment in
not being in her own house, and that she should never recover from
having built the large "new wing." In March, 1882, the house in
which Mrs. Jones was boarding took fire, and she was burned to death.
Her room was on the third floor, and she was last seen at the window
with her arms behind her head, in an attitude of despair, in white,
with her hair hanging down her back, when suddenly she fell back in
Digitized by Google
28 Joumal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb.• 1889.
the flames. She had spoken of the house to the last person who had
seen her the night before, saying" it would haunt her to her grave."
Her tenant, Mrs. Robinson, continued to occupy the house, until the
autumn when it was let to us. In speaking to me about giving up
the house, she said it was because she could not keep any servants,
but did not tell me why. When our furniture was already half moved
in, and the house was being cleaned, for the first time I heard that
Mrs. Robinson's nursery governess had hung herself in the bath-room,
and that since then" it was haunted," and 80 no servants had been
willing since then to live in the house. This I found out by ordering
the room to be cleaned, and being told by the woman who was cleaning
that there was not money enough to pay her to go in that room. Only
by going with her could I reassure her enough to have the cleaning
done. At last we moved in, taking with us the servants we had brought
with us from another place. where our home had been. All went very
smoothly, for those servants had no prejudices, and we took every care
that the house should always be well lighted throughout, especially
the "haunted room." In the month of January, 1885, during the
illness of one of the family, who occupied the large front room, my
sister and I were sitting up at night, when suddenly she exclaimed,
speaking to me, "What are you doing in that cold wing 7 come back,"
following me, as she supposed, through her room, which opened into the
front room in which the invalid was. My sister's room and mine were
. both in the "new wing." When she got up to the person to whom
she had been speaking, she saw that it was not I, but a tall, fair
woman in white, with her hair falling down her back, her arms behind
her head, and a look of despair on her face. My sister tried to touch
her, but she vanished. She came back directly to me, and told me
what she had seen. We agreed not to speak of it. A few days after
this, I was sitting in a room in the old part of the house, and saw a
figure looking very carefully round the door of my room. I supposed
it was a eervant listening, so I went towards the door. To my
surprise the figure straightened herself up, put her hands behind her
head. and disappeared. About a month later, my sister, being ill, called
to me to come to her in the night. I left her to get some medicine
which she required. When I came back to her she said, "Why did YOll
go into my dressing-room just now, and why do you look so tired
and sad 1 I told her I had not been near her dressing-room since I
had left her a few minutes before. Then she said, "Why it must be
that ghost."
Twice more she was seen by us, before we moved out of the house
and away from B., always in the same attitude, alU'ays in the
"new wing." We determined then to tell the story to our physician,
who we knew had been sent for the night the governess hunO'
herself. We found that he was much interested, and when we had told
him all, he said, "The governess was short, dark, and stout. You
have seen a figure like Mrs. Jones. She was tall and fair, and was last
seen as you describe her." We had never seen Mrs. Jones.
London, July 6th, 1888.
.. ... Digitized by Google
Feb., 1889.] JOltrnal of Society for Psychical Research. 29
DOCUMENT II.
Miss Mary Brown gave the following account verbally in 1887 to a
friend who wrote it down. She has since revised it and pronounced
it "correct in all the details that are of any importance" ;-
A family of three ladies, consisting of an invalid· mother and two
daughters, took a house in the country for the summer months. The rent
was low considering the size of the house, which had a long wing to it.
They were told that the house was reputed to be haunted, a governess having
committed suicide whilst living with the family to whom it belonged. The
B. family, however, paid no attention to what they considered to be foolish
gossip, and at the appointed date the eldest sister, Miss Lucy B., went down to
superintend the final preparations for the reception of her mother and sister.
On the morning after her arrival she gave orders to the caretaker to clean
out the bath-room and was lUet by a flat refusal, the woman declaring she
would never go into that room by herself again.
Mrs. B. and the younger daughter, Miss Mary B., having arrived, the
latter, after a few days, was suffering from some slight indisposition which
confined her to her room. This room communicated with that of her sister,
Miss Lucy B., on one side by a door. At the opposite end was a large bay
window. One niO"ht as she was lying in bed she saw, as she thought, the figure
of her sister, a tall, slight, fair-haired lady, standing in this bay window, her
arms raised above her head. She called out, "What are you doing
at that end of the room, Lucy?" Her sister answered from her own room,
.. Mary, you have been talking to yourself; I have been in my room all the
time." Mary replied, "No, I saw you standing there," pointing to the
window.
A few days afterwards, MISS Lucy B. was sitting in her room, a big parcel on
her lap. Mary came in and asked her whE:'re she was going to put the parcel,
to which Lucy replied she did not kuow. Mary then went to her own
bedroom. Presently, hearing a noise behind her, near her clothes press,
.she turned round and saw, as she thought, her sister standing near the pre~s.
She began a half laughing remonstrance, asking her why she had sefected
her wardrobe to stuff that big parcel in. Happening, however, to look away
for a moment from the figure through the opell door leading to her sister's
bedroom, she saw the latter sitting in the same place with the big parcel on
her knees; when she looked again towards the window the figure was gone.
The eldest sister habitually slept with her mother, who was an invalid, and
has since died.
One night Mrs. B. woke, and seeing, as she thonght, her daughter in a
far-off part of the room, asked her what she was standing there for. Miss Lucy
B., who was lying in a little bed beside her mother, now awaked and asked her
mother to whom she was speaking. Mrs. B. said ~he had seen a figure
like her daughter, tall, slight, and fair, at the other end of the room with her
hands raised above her head. Soon after this, the doctor of the village
called, and the Miss B.'s told him how troublesome it was that they could not
keep any of their servants for more than a month, and were often obliged to
pay largely in excess of the wages agreed on to prevail 011 them to remain
even so long-such was their terror at what they declared to be repeated
apparitions of "the ghost." Miss B. then proceeded to say that they them-
sdves had been disturbed by her three times, and asked the doctor to
describe the appearance of the French governess. The doctor answered
readily enough that Mdlle. R. was dark, plump, and short. The ladies
thereupon described the figure and countenance of the apparition they had
seen, the doctor looking much startled. He informed them that the
owner of the house, Mrs. Jones, had added to it the wing in which were the
Digitized by GOL
30 Jo'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1889.
sleeping rooms of the B. family, that she had almost ruined herself by
doing so, and had been ullable to live in the house herself on account of
the cost of keeping it up; ..he had therefore let it and gone to live in a
smaller one in the village. One night she had said to some friendll who were
with her, "That house of mine is always troubling me, I shall never be
able to live there anymore, the wing in especial really haunts me." That
night the house in which Mrs. Jones lived took fire, and the last that was
seen of her by the neighbours in the street below, was standing at an upper
window, not apparently having the courage to jump as she was being urged
to do, with her arms lifted high over her her head. A mowent or two·
afterwards she fell back and was burnt to death. She was a tall, slight,
fair-haired woman.
On July, 23rd 1888, I met the two sisters at the house of R.
Leycester, Esq., 6, Cheyne.walk, S.W. I found them very anxious
not to overstate what they remembered.
Four different occurrences of the apparition are remembered, three·
of them by both sisters, the fourth by Miss Lucy Brown only, although
Miss Mary Brown was the percipient. Two other dim and shadowy
appearances may be left out of account. There remain four well-
marked appearances all of the same figure.
1. Seen by Miss Mary Brown, January, 1885, during severe illness of"
another member of the family. This is not definitely remembered now
by Miss Mary Brown, but very clearly by Miss Lucy Brown, who·
knew of it as soon as it. happened.
2. Listening at the door. Seen by Miss Lucy Brown. In this
case the figure seems to have appeared in the old part of the house.
3. Seen by Miss Mary Brown when slightly ill, (the illness was trivial
and not accompanied by fever). In this case the figure does not seem
to have assumed its usual attitude.
4. Seen for some time, then disappears into closet. This was seen
by Miss Mary Brown; is remembered, but not so clearly, by Miss.
Lucy Brown.
The servants repeatedly spoke of having seen a figure, but the Misses.
Brown discouraged them and made no inquiries.
The Misses Brown inquired from relativtls what Mrs. Jones was like..
and learnt that she somewhat resembled Miss Lucy Brown (who is very
tall) in figure; was about 45 or 50 (apparent age of phantom, so far-
as seen), and had blond hair (as also has Miss Lucy Brown).
Dr. Barker writes from the town of B., under date August 26th,
1888, to Miss Lucy Brown:-
"I well remember the queer experience you had in---street and.
your description of it; and my recollection of the incident coincides
with your own in every particular. The nurse was dark, rather stout,
and of medium height. The former owner of the house was tall..
neither thin nor stout, quite fair, with light hair and grey eyes, very
erect, and of good figure. You described her very nearly."
Miss Brown has never had any other hallucination of the seqses.
Miss Lucy Brown has had one other hallucination, apparently
representing a person who had died in the house where the figure-
was seen, though a person unknown to the percipent. It is hoped.
that this case may appear ill a future number of the Journal.
Digitized by Google
Feb.,1889.] Journal of Society fm' P8ychical Research. 31
THE "HAUNTED HOUSE."
Various unexplained sounds have been recently heard in the house
mentioned on the cover of the JO'Urn.al. We purposely give no par-
ticulars as it is desirable that witnesses should observe and describe
independently anything that may occur; and it is hoped that more
Members and Associates may be able to arrange to sleep there.
Supposing that the apparitions formerly seen were more than mere
hallucinations, the chances of obtaining results would be greater in
proportion to the number who make the trial, since experience renders
it probable that certain persons are specia.lly susceptible in this way.
RECENT ADDITIONS TO THE LIBRARY OF THE SOCIETY.
tBALFOUR (Arthur J.) The Religion of Humanity. An Address
delivered at the Church Congress, Manchester, October, 1888.
Edinburgh, 1888
BRAUN (L.) Experimenteller Spiritualisrnus und Spiritisml1s...Leipzig, 1879
BRAUN (Otto) Geisterstunde. (Deutsche Rundachau. March, 1875,
p. 498)..................................................................... Berlin, 1875
DEDEKIND (Pastor. W. E.) Ueber Geisternahe und Geisterwirkullg
Hanover, 1825
ERSClIEINUNGEN (Die Neuesten) auf dem Gebiete des Spiritismus.
(Allgemeine Evangeliache-Lutheri8che Kirchen Zeitung. Jan. 8th
and 15th, 1885)..................................................... ............. 1885
FROHsCHAMMER (J.) Thierspuk in Spiritisml18. (Dt'e Gartenla1We.
FUC1:;o(;~) 1s::':lf~~!~~~··spi;ii~~ii~;;;~~··~~ci··spi~iti~~~~··~~d··~~i~ 1878
auftreten in Deutschland. Allgemeine Conservative Monatachrift.
Dec. 1879, p. 884) ................................................................ 1879
GUTBERLET (Prof. Dr. Const.) Der Spiritismlls................. ....Cologne, 1882
HELLENBACH (L. R). 1st Hansen ein Schwindler 1 Eine Studie tiber
den Animalischen Magnetismus (2nd edit.) ..................Leipzig, 1887
HENNINGS, Visionen vorziiglich lIeuerer und neuerster Zeit philoso-
phisch in ein Licht gestellt ...... ..............................Altenburg, 1781
KAsPROWICZ (E. L.) Der Spiritismus in Deutschland. II. Haupt-
grund-satze der Lehre vom Geiste ................................Leipzig, 1879
LIEBICH (Constantin) Der Somnambllle, der im Schlafe gelstig-
hellsehender Prediger (August Schiiler) ........................Berlin, 1883
LtiWENTHAL (Dr. Eduard) Grundziige des inductiven Spiritualismus
Berlin, 1889
MENDELSSOHN (Moses) Phadon, oder, Ueber die Ullsterblichkeit del'
Seele ......................................................................Leipzig, N. D.
OTTO (Bernhard) Die Sprache del' Vestorbellen, oder das Geister-
klopfen. (4th edition) ...............................................Leipz~q, N. D.
SCHNEIDER (D. Wilhelm) Del' Neuere Geisterglaube 2nd edit.ion)
Paderborn, 1885
SPIEGEL (Dr. Hermann) Das Wesell des Spiritismus ..............Leipzig. 1888
THEOSOPHISTISCHE (Das) Attentat auf die Christliche Misllion in Indien.
AUg. Evangelische-Lutheri8che Kirchen Zeitltng. Jan. 8th, 1885,
p. 17.)............................................................................... 1885
WENZELBURGER (Theodor) Der Process Ra.ulldorft'-Bourbon. (Ullsere
Zeit.•JlIne, 15th, 1874,p. 845):............................................. 1874
::: Presented by the Author.
Digitized by Google
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
REOBIPTS AND EXPENDITURE A 000 UN'1' FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31st DEOEMBER, 1888.
~r.
188!!.
.Jan. 1.-To Balance in hands of Treasurer
Do. Secretary
£ s. d.
35 15 6
10 0 0
Dec. :U.-" Subscriptions:-
I\lembers
Associates
325 10 0
.. "/'87127
" Life Subscription
Donations
., Free Distribution Fund
Sale of Publications :-
Per Triilmer & Co. (July 1887
to June 1!!8!!)
" American S. P. R.
" Secretary
" Rent-(Rooms not required at 19
Buckingham Street, 6 months
to I\Iichaelmas 1888)
Interest from Investment
" Sale of Consols
36 6 4
37 8 9
!I 18 0
£ s. d.
41) 15 6
613 2 7
10 10 0
2313 0
4 17 0
!!313
12 10 0
2 10 3
61 13 11
£858 r. 4
([r.
1888
Dec. 31.-By Literary Committee
" Library
Printing:-
Proceedings, Part XI.
" XII., on
account of ..
Journal, Nos. 39--48
General
Covers anll Binding
General Meetings
I, Advertising
£ s. d.
194 Hi 6
50 0 0
65 0 0
15 4 6
Travelling Expenses (Members of Council)
Philosophical Instruments
Salary to Secretary (Sept. 1887 to Sept. 1888)
and Commission on Subscriptions
!tent (12 month. to Michaelmas 1888)
Housekeeper 12 months, 19 Buckingham
Street)
" l"urnishing
Rt'ading Room and Stationery
l:ostage (Secretary's)
Gas ...
Repairs
General Expenses
" Balance in hands of Treasurer '" 66 12 0
Secretary ... 10 0 0
I have audited the above Receipts and Expenditure Account with the Books of the Society, and certify that it is correct.
£ s. d.
8611 7
9 811
325 0 0
9 Ii 9
38 12 9
4 11) 0
400
116
133 0 0
45 0 0
12 0 0
019 6
6 611
49 14 10
2 10 0
15 14 10
3711 9
76 12 0
£858 5 "
24th January, 1889. MORELL THEOBALD, C.A.
~
t.:l
~
t
~
g<
C":I
J
~
""'l
~
~
£..
g.
~
[
1
.-
~
