{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lavette_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Lavette H NDE 945","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lavette H NDE 945  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lavette H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						404  Lavette H NDE  945  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was unable to swim when I was pushed into a pool at the deep end. I sank like a rock when I touched the bottom of the pool my 'self', as I call it, came out of my body. I was instantly up and to the right of my body behind the right shoulder. I was very aware that the body I saw drowning was mine.  Yet I had no sympathy for it as I watched it drown and struggle for life, I was completely unattached to it. I questioned immediately how can I be there and here at the same time?


I put my hands out in front of me and touched them together.  As I felt the touch and recognized that they were my hands. I could not understand how this could be I took a deep breath and said, 'Wow I can breathe under water!' I was distracted by the voices of those at the poolside discussing the fate of my body as it drowned. I could clearly hear their words and was aware of their emotions concerning my drowning body; but I still did not care about it and returned my attention to the fact that it did not hurt at all to die.


I was amazed at how much more real and vibrant the colors and light around me were. This is real and that body there was just a coat I had been wearing. It felt good to be out of it. I felt free from pain, confusion and all the heaviness of the weight of life on one's shoulders. My entire perspective on life was changing as fast as I could think.  As I was basking in the wonder of it all at the same time the one who pushed me in jumped in to get me. I watched as she pulled the body to the top of the water. As fast as myself came out of the body, it went back in and I was instantly very angry about it.


I could now feel the experience the body had while I was separate from it. It had been terrified and angry, scared and afraid. I had not experienced any of that yet now I was being forced to feel the state the flesh felt even though I wasn't there with it when it happened. I never saw through the body's eyes, I could only feel what it was feeling about what had happened to it. I was also aware that nobody there had seen myself come out of me and I could not say anything to them about it. It seemed that while in the body it had priority and control of all my actions while in it. It had a strong survival instinct and was not aware of the fact that it is really O.K. to die. I then was aware that it doesn't hurt the self to separate but it hurts the body very badly. The self can experience the body while in it but the body cannot experience the self, it is completely unaware of its existence.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    June 1977

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     horseplay in pool  Life threatening event, but not clinical death drowning

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Exactly like my flesh body in appearance including moles and scars.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      One hundred percent.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   We all live in a multidimensional world yet while in the flesh we cannot see with our real eyes and can only see the here and now.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Voices and thoughts of those around me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   No light in particular just a brightness or illumination of everything like I had been in a dim light all my life and someone turned on the light. Like after a movie when all the lights come on in the theater.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Free, free from all negative emotions and thoughts

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Life is not what we are taught or think, life is always, has been and always will be.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     There is no death as we know it.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I wasn't privy to the decision of my return but I was angry about it. I suppose given the choice I would have said no so I wasn't given a choice.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   nondenominational

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Less uptight than others are about life, I know there is more to know than we have been taught and am more dedicated to finding out and very strong and stable around dying people and their loved ones.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I can feel if people are negative or positive (good or bad) without even seeing them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was being there and the worst was coming back.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    People are intimidated by me anyway, it is one of those situations where you have to be there to believe it, yet I told my father the night before he had a stroke and when he came to in the hospital he was unable to speak yet became very insistent that I remain with him until he died and kept nodding his head, 'yes, yes.'

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Years later I was visited and reminded of the event and was let known that why I was not allowed to die was about to come to fruit in my life.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      This was the second supernatural experience of three I have had yet it is the only one that can qualify as near death even though it was not the most profound of the three.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      More background questions about environment and family status.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lavette_h_nde.html