{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lavall_m_nde.html","mytitle":"LaVall M NDE 5025","mylang":"de"}
          	        LaVall M NDE 5025  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					LaVall M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2603 LaVall M NDE 5025  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have only shared this experience with a few people, it has taken ten plus years to come to terms with and fully understand my experience.

February 12th 2000, I became very sick, and I knew I had to go to the hospital, but I just couldn't get myself together enough to actually go. Finally, the morning of the fourteenth I somehow drove myself to the hospital, although I cannot remember driving there. I do remember walking into the emergency room and when asked what was wrong with me I just said 'sick'. I was sitting in a chair in the emergency room and then my next conscious thought was that I was in a little stainless steel room on a gurney, with a bunch of people frantically all around me, I think it was the elevator. I was conscious for maybe one or two minutes, and the next thing I saw was this brilliant white area, and I knew I was there, wherever there was.

I cannot even accurately describe the 'Entities' that were with me, they were not physical Beings, but rather I had a sense of this intelligence that I felt very comfortable with, a sense that I was at home, a feeling of total acceptance, compassion and total love, almost euphoric.

I was not conscious of being in a physical body, but at the time, that thought never crossed my mind. These Entities communicated in a telepathic way, it seemed that their thoughts originated within me, and I was communicating with them in a similar way. I was told of their what they really were, that they were just a part of the ultimate 'Entity' that was the Universe in its totality, as I and all matter and Beings were also just a part of the whole that is the Universe.

I awoke on February 15 and wondered where I was, and finally figured out I was in the intensive care unit at the hospital. I wondered if what I had seen and experienced was real or not, that maybe it was just some kind of dream, but it was as real as any day in my life, not dreamlike at all, but like any other experience in my life.

Talking to the doctor the next day, he stated that they thought I was gone, and that my blood sugars were 950, and I should have never even gotten to the hospital, let alone survive.

That was not my only NDE.  When I was thirteen, I distinctly remember drowning. A bunch of us kids used to go swimming at some ponds that were the result of excavation for the freeway construction. The ponds are over one hundred feet deep, and we used to play a game of grabbing a large boulder and see how far we could go down. One time I went too far, and when I decided to let go of the boulder, I was already out of breath. When I looked up the surface was just a small circle of light. I swam up as fast as I could, but could not reach the surface before I could no longer help but gulp in a mouth full of water. I remember being surrounded by this brilliant white light, but to this day, I have no memory of reaching the surface.

Since my NDE, I have been contacted 'telepathically', by these same Entities, always during the daytime, and have been encouraged to put into writing the knowledge that was 'given' to me. After two years of this contact, I finally wrote an E-Book, 'Universe The Entities'. Even today, I sometimes think that some of what I wrote just sounds so outlandish to actually be true. I not only wrote of the creation of the Universe we live in and are a part of, but of the other physical Beings with a soul, but I was primarily encouraged to write of mankind's destructive nature on this world. The Entity that is you is comprised of a soul (psyche) and essence, the electrical energy that is throughout all of the Universe.

At times when I was contacted by the intelligence I call 'The Eternals', I sometimes wondered about my sanity, if these Entities were gods or what, why was I chosen to have this knowledge. Before I had my NDE, I had never heard of such a thing as a near death experience, and since I have explored some other people's experiences. In all cases where someone described being given this knowledge of the Universe, they all said they could not retain the information.  One described it as having all the knowledge of the Universe, only to lose most of it when they returned to their conscious body, one said it was like having an ocean's worth of knowledge and trying to pour it into a teacup, it just over flowed and was lost.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2-14-2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Other 'diabetic coma, not sure if I was clinically dead or not'  Diabetic coma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Physical noise was not evident; everything seemed to happen without normal sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The Entities I now call 'The Eternals'.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I just ended up in a very brilliantly lighted place.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I cannot describe where I was, it was just this brilliantly light place

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort, togetherness, total acceptance, peace, love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   atheist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was given knowledge of the Universe, and subsequently contacted at later times.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I try to be a more compassionate and caring individual.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Hard to describe the 'Entities' I was with, not physical Beings, but rather pure energy, an intelligence most could not comprehend. Metaphysical Beings possibly?

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Been contacted by the intelligent entities I described earlier.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The intelligence I call 'The Eternals', knowledge of the Universe.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't think about it for some reason for about two months, then I knew it was all real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Sometimes I question my experience, but I know it was all real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just that what I have described is accurate to the best of my memories, and there is life after this physical life, but not what most people think.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lavall_m_nde.html