{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1laurie_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Laurie S NDE 3896","mylang":"de"}
          	        Laurie S NDE 3896  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Laurie S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1844 Laurie S NDE 3896  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience was as follows: I had to go to a clinic to have tests for tuberculosis as a fellow-student had fallen ill with the disease. At that time, I had a great aversion to needles and especially to blood, quite often I would faint. So, in a state of nervousness before the test, I made up my mind and had the injection. All I could see there was a red dot, but I got stressed, went back out where my mother was, looking pale, and they asked me if I was okay.

I said yes, and immediately lost consciousness, seeing images of my life like snapshots, from early childhood up to the age I was at that time, seeing and understanding the meaning of all these pictures, although they flashed by at remarkable speed. Suddenly I entered a dark tunnel, feeling all the time at peace and in harmony, feeling wonderful. In a while, a light appeared and there was someone, an entity, in two dimensions, without human features. I noticed other presences, as if they were accompanying me, but there was no one I knew. I wanted to stay there, but I was told I had to go back and was urged to leave because I still had things to do.  Soon, I saw a burst of light. I saw myself on the ground with my mother, friends, and other people circled round me.  They were looking at me and asking if I was okay. I was very okay, felt great, full of a sensation of fulfillment, and conscious of what had happened to me.  I didn't know how to tell anyone about the experience since it was a very strange and different experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Septiembre de 1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Ver sangre me hacía desmayarme y desvanecerme en cualquier sitio.  Other Desmayo por ver sangre  No, I don't think that fainting is life-threatening in itself, it is just that it was very difficult to resuscitate me. The nurse was frantically trying to get me to have oxygen because I was not reacting, slow to react after a fainting-fit which normally would pass quickly.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I entered the light and was with the presences.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It is as if much more time had passed than really did when I fainted, it was an immeasurable time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Perception is different, you are not an observer, things happen within yourself, everything enters into you, vision comes towards you and it is something in a straight line, you are not aware of the sides, there is no lateral vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard nothing, just felt things, all as if on a mental plane.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     After the images of my life I went through a dark tunnel straight ahead and suddenly came the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw a presence but did not know it, then I felt other presences but did not see them, I felt that they were behind the first being, and they told me I had to go back, as I still had things to do, that my moment had still not come.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light which flooded everything, on every side, and which made me feel fulfilled.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Vi un sitio iluminadisimo y me hacia sentir plena

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, fulfillment, I felt better than good, happiness, love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw a rapid succession of images like photographs, from childhood to my age at that time. All of them were gratifying and made me joyful, I was happy.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I often have intuitions, perceptions or visions of people and situations which are going to happen. For some time I paid no attention to these, thinking I was mistaken, but since about a year ago, I've changed attitude, deciding to pay more attention to them. Everything comes out as I see it is going to, I am rarely wrong.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Cristiana no practicante, que me daba igual la religion cristiana.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't believe religion has a name, it is a feeling, we are all equal, Catholic, Protestant, Buddhist, Muslim etc.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Atea y con atracción hacia el budismo.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't believe religion has a name, it is a feeling, we are all equal, Catholic, Protestant, Buddhist, Muslim etc.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   As although I know that what awaits me is something beautiful, I know that I had to remain alive still, since I have plans to accomplish so that everything will move around me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I seek out sincere people, honest and good.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Since it was something so strange and different, that telling anyone about it who has not been through it could mean they would not be able to believe you, although you knew with certainty that you were not inventing it, but had lived through it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sensation of peace and plenitude, and wanting to stay at all costs, except I was told I could not stay, which I accepted but did not like.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Although I knew I had lived it, because it was something so strange, I thought I must have imagined it, that there must be a scientific explanation which is not there, as this concerns matters to do with death.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because with time I have seen things from a more detached viewpoint, and there must be something to it, this was an overwhelmingly beautiful feeling, and if that is so, why should I not accept it, it is something good.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I don't know why this happened to me, since normally it arises from a different type of situation, not a fainting-fit, but it did happen to me and I would not change that for anything.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I cannot think of much else.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1laurie_s_nde.html