{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lawrence_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Lawrence B NDE 4785","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lawrence B NDE 4785  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lawrence B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2424 Lawrence B NDE 4785  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went to my dentist to have two teeth extracted. The dentist told me not to eat because I was to be anesthetized with gas. I sat in the chair and he injected me with Lidocaine instead. It was the worst thing he could have done. Soon after the extractions, my nightmare of sickness began. Although later into the experience, it was marvelous. As I sat waiting for my next appointment, a terrible feeling came upon me. I began to feel sickly, dizzy and I felt a nasty pain in my chest that was getting more and more intense. Suddenly, I began to get pain in my throat and neck and down my left arm. I fell forward and down to the floor. I saw myself falling in stages as if photographing my descent from outside my body. I hit the floor and began to urinate, as I had no control over my bladder. I had drank three cups of coffee prior to my appointment, as I had no breakfast. Everyone in the waiting room began to panic. Then a woman and a man turned me over on to my back.
  				    
I could see myself lying there dead as a doornail. Someone screamed and said 'Give him respiration.' I saw I wasn't responding. The woman opened the door and shouted for my sister who was outside smoking. It was then that I was drawn towards the outside and to a white Jaguar car parked nearby. As I approached the car from outside my body, the door opened and I was compelled to enter and sit behind the wheel. In a blinking of an eye the car sped off and spun right, just missing a green Volvo parked on the opposite side. It then headed straight for the door of the workingmen's club. I could hear and feel the impact and bricks smashing down onto the car. Then a high-pitched sound followed. A blinding flash brought me into a railway tunnel travelling at intense speed towards a light in the distance. In no time, I was at the light. When I got out of the car, I was greeted by a young girl and boy of about eighteen years of age, 'Welcome Lawrence,' they both said in unison as I found it hard to look at them face on.

As I looked at them with squinting eyes, I noticed another entrance to my left blocked by a door. To the right of the door and to my front was a gate and a fence. Beyond that was a beautiful garden with large conifer trees running alongside a path that led slightly inclined towards a large glass, marble-like mansion of some kind. If you go through the gate, you will see your friends and family, it was in my head like ESP they were not speaking out from their mouths. Suddenly, as I gazed at the mansion, I was lifted some eighteen inches from the floor. I saw over the incline and saw lots of similar buildings with people walking around. Some sat at tables made of the same material as the buildings.

As I looked on in amazement, a cinema screen appeared in front of me. I saw myself in a film of myself. It started when I was about five years old onwards, showing all the details from childhood right through to old age. Then the film changed to people suffering in desert countries and I saw earthquakes and large water waves covering peoples' villages. I saw the USA air fleet attacking an Arab country and devastating it like they did at Hiroshima and Nagasaki. I thought the country was Iran. The USA had developed a secret weapon unlike anything ever seen on earth. Medical discoveries gave new treatments for ailments and an end to horrible diseases was the topic of the report I was hearing. After a while, the screen vanished and I floated back down to the floor.

The two beings said again in unison 'Do you want to go through the gate Lawrence? Because if you do, you won't be able to go back.' They asked, 'Who are you with?' I answered, that I am with my sister but somehow I'm not. I'm in two places. They asked, 'Do you then want to be with your sister or go through the gate?' I moved forward, opened the gate, and thought for a while. I didn't want to leave, but I didn't want to leave my sister either. 'Do you know where you are Lawrence?' I said 'yes' and that I wanted to be with my sister Patricia. Immediately, I found myself hurtling at top speed back through the tunnel. A blinding flash brought me back to the road and back to the dental surgery. I saw my sister dragging my lifeless body out of the surgery. I walked up to her and lay down on top of my body, wherein I came back to life.

I kept repeating 'The tunnel, the tunnel.' My sister's aid said, 'You are coming with me, I know where you've been.' I went home and was okay next day. Ever since then, I've had premonitions that have all come true. I have been able to predict the future, I have also seen events weeks before they have happened - everything said here is the truth.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  September 1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Allergic reaction    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   It was hard to revive me, I revived myself by lying down on top of my body.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While I was in the presence of the girl and boy.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was in the presence of the girl and boy.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I must have been in the place with the girl and boy for at least half an hour as I thought but my sister said I was lifeless for about five minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The grass, trees, sky and colors in general were unbelievably brilliant, it was however hard to look at my two hosts, and the girl was incredibly beautiful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Hearing more alert though everything was inside my mind like what is described along the lines of telepathy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Like a railway tunnel with light at the other end but inside the tunnel it was dark and I remember the car lights coming on.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw two beings a girl and a boy of human form emitting light from themselves.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At the end of the tunnel.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     mansions of great size

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Feelings of intense joy and happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw glimpses of the future, wars famines tsunamis world war, earthquakes etc. Japan eastern china and parts of the USA destroyed by a tsunami over a hundred and fifty meters high. I don't fear death at all you just don't die; you move on, there is no death as we think.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Earthquakes, tsunamis, wars in Iraq and Bosnia, I was aware these would happen.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     A gate, I knew and was told I couldn't come back if I crossed over through the gate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The experience proved to me God does exist but you don't need any religion as they are only out to take money from us.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The experience proved to me God does exist but you don't need any religion as they are only out to take money from us.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only after I got home and went to bed.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I'm kinder, don't value worldly things, and don't worry.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was psychic before I went in the tunnel but ability became enhanced afterwards.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, as I placed my hand on the gate and half opened it I felt really solid like I was back in my body, it was as if as though I would become whole again but in a stronger body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately I shared it but only my sister believed me people thought I was mad.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real that's all I can say, I think I am gifted to have had such an experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I saw myself from outside my body which made me sure that it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Some of the visions have been sad; I saw a film of me rushing home to find an ambulance outside the house and my dad lying dead. This vision came every day for three weeks and at the end of three weeks came true. I foresaw myself thrown from a car two minutes before it happened.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, I think you have done a fine job of asking details.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lawrence_b_nde.html