{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 3013","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n58_mar_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N58 March 1889","mylang":"de"}
No. LVIII.-VOL. IV. MARCH, 1889.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
Experiments in Thought-transference .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 83
Correction to M. 6, and further particulars from Mr. Dobbie respecting his Experiments in
Case ~~~he LitemI")' ConuBii.tee ;: :: .. .. .. .. .. .. :: ~
Recent Iaditionsto the Edmund Gurney Library .. 47
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
The following series of experiments were made by a lady, well
known to the editor, with her little girl, aged at the time about four
years and seven months. In sending us the notes she says :-
I find that for the present I can make no more experiments with H. ;
she is too old to give her impressions quite unconsciously and not old enough
to have the importance of the affair explained to her. . . . I enclose
you the results of our experiments up to the present. . . . Besides the
notes of experiments with cards, I enclose copies of notes of cases where H.
guessed what I was thinking of, or I of what she was thinking; I thought
they might be interesting as illustrations.
The experiments were made as follows :-The little girl drew a card
out of the pack and looked at it while her mother, who kept her
eyes closed throughout the experiment, guessed what the suit was,
whether it was a pioture card or not, and in some cases what card
it was. When no impression as to the card was felt no guess was
made. In the following notes P. stands for picture. "Picture right"
means a right guess made as to whether the card was a picture card or
not. After the first two evenings, when a full record of the experi-
ments was kept, a dash stands for the child's answer "yes" or "no."
There was no contact.
NOTES OF EXPERIMENTS.
First Evening, February, 1888.
Suits, number, and pictures guessed. Firat three [cards guessed] right in
all respects. Then only tried suits and pictures.-12 more guesses, of which
picture right 12 times, suit right 6 times.
February 6th. ..
Firat three, suit only guessed-right each time. Then six more, guessing.
suit and picture, of which suit right three times, picture right six times.
D
Digitized by Google
34 Journal of Society for P8ychical Resea'1'Ch. [March, 1889.
February 7th. 5 gueaae..
CABDDBAWN.
(a) H. 6
(b) Sp. 2
(c) Sp. 3
(d) H. 3
(e) D. 1
GUBBI.
01. 11-H, not P.
01. -.H 11- Sp. 2.
Sp. -not P-4.
D1-Sp1-H-notP
Sp.1-H1-ill.1-D 1
notP.
February 10th. 3 gueB8ea-tW
impreBBion.
February 10th (later).
(a) H. 2 NotP-H-2.
(b) H. Kg. P-D-Kg.--Kg.H.
(c) Sp. 5 Not P. - Several
gueaae&; then H.
aaid shehad "made
a mistake" about
the card.
February 13th. 3 gueaaes-no
impreBBion.
March 19th. 4 gueaaes.
OABDDBAWN.
(a) H. 1
(b) Sp. 10
GUB18.
D-notP-H-2
-3-1.
Sp. not P (doubtful)
-10.
Note on (b).-Ml' impreBBian was "alot
of black "-then Spadt'8. I had a feeling
it was not P-hut seemed to see a crowd.
I aaid "Not P," and hearing that I was
right, iustanti1' felt that 10 satisfied my
impl888ion. H. proceeded to ceunt the
pipe,-lO being more than she can take
m at a glance,-and I was right.
(c) Blank card1 .. Can aee nothing."
Note on (0).-" Can see nothi~" does
not represent" had no impreBBloD." I
had an irritated senaatioD of Dot being
able to 888 anything.
(d) ill. Q. I No impresaion.
March 20th. 4 gUelll8a-3 no
impre88ion.
(a) D. 6 INet P -- H or D -
4-5-6.
Note.-I· gu888ed the Dumbers SUCC88·
sively,but in fact I aawa plain picture of
the top corners.
March 24th. 4 gueaa8B-2 no
February 27th. 3 guessea. impre&rion.
No impresaion. (a) Sp. Kg. D- P-Q. Sp.-Sp.
D - not P.- wrong - Kg.
gUeIsea. (b) ill. Knave ill. - not P - Kg. -
No impreBBion. Q - Knave.
(a)
(b) H. 5
(c)
I have no record of the exact gueaaes on ~e first two evenings. But all
Dotes are contemporaneous. The result of the gueBBing is written down
before we go on to the next card. The lines ( - ) ahowed the interval in
which yel or no was answered.
(Signed)
J an~ary 29th, 1889.
The pack of cards used was an imperfect one; the 8 of spades and
the 2, 5, 7, 10 and knave of diamonds having been lost. The ace of
spades was counted as a picture card, so that there were 12 picture
cards and 34 plain cards. Neither agent nor percipient knew which
cards were missing, nor how many.
It appears from the above notes that the total number of experi-
ments was 53, or, omittj.ng the blank card, 52. In 14 of these no
impression was received nor guess made. In the remaining 38 the
Digitized by Google
March,I889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 35
attempt was made to guess the suit only in three cases, suit and
whether picture card or not in 22 cases, and to guess the whole card in
13 cases. It was not settled beforehand how much was to be attempted
-this depended on the impression felt at the time. The following
is a table of the results :-
RIGHT.
I WRONG.
I
ATTEMPTED.
Numberl ITOTAL.
Suit. Picture. Suit. Picture. Number
--------- -------
Suit only ••• ... ... ... 3 ... ... ... ... ... 3
Suit and Picture ... ... 9 22 ... 13t ... ... 22
Suit, Picture, and Num-
7
bers ... ... ... ... 12* 7 6 1 6 13
---- -------,---
Total ... ... ... ... ... 19 34 7 19 1 6
I~-
Number thatwouldhave }
been mo~t probable
by chance, say..•
90r 10 25:1: 3**
* Including case (b) on February 7th, when the whole card was gueBBed
before gueBBing picture or not.
t Including caseB (c) on February 10th and (a) on March 20th.
t The mOBt probable number of correct gueBBeB as to picture or not
cannot be properly eBtimated without the details of all the experiments, or a
longer series of recorded gueBBeS, becauBe_ince the probability of being
right by chance in any parnicular case iB greater for the gueBB .. not picture"
than the gueBB "picture"-the mOBt probable number of correct gueBBeB
depends on the bias of the gueBBer. (Owing to the imperfection of
the pack these remarks apply also mutatis mutatulis to the gueBBeB of
Buit and of number.) If he haB no bias-that is, if in the long run
he saYB ,. picture" as often as "not picture "-half hiB guesBes will in
the long run be right. A bias in favour of .. not picture" would give a
larger number of right gueBBes, and a bias in favour of .. picture" a Bmaller
number-the limiting valueB in the two directionB being U and U. If he
gueBBes "picture" and" not picture" in the true proportions-that is, 12
pictureB to 34 not-pictures-he will in the long run be right by chance 325
timeB out of 529, or about three-fifthsof biB gueBBeB will be right. The number
25 given in the table is the most probable number of coincidences among
the actual cards and gueBBeB in the short Beries of 14 experimentB of which
the details are given. On any aBBumption the actual number of correct
gueBBes in the experiments before UB iB greatly in exceBS of the probable
number.
** The probability of the number being right in any particular gueBB
is, in a perfect pack, fit whether the goels be made in two stages (picture ...
D
Digitized by Google
36 Journal of 80ciety for Psychical Research. [Mr.rcb, 1889.
til'llt and then number), or all at once, provided the gulllll in the fil'IIt stage
is right, as was the oaae whenever the number was right in these experimenta.
The guesses may be differently analysed as follows :-
Suit only right 4
Picture only right... 17
Suit and pioture right but not number 10
Picture and number right but not suit 2
Suit, picture, and number right 5
Quite wrong 0
Total 38
The probability of guesaing any card wholly right out of 38 guesses
is, of course, less than one.
With regard to the picture guesses, the idea occurs to one that the
child may have liked picture cards best, and have had a special manner
when picture cards turned up, which unconsciously influenced her
mother. On this hypothesis, however, one would expect that the
impression of picture or not would be the first to occur, which does
not appear to have happened; since out of the 14 cases where the
details of the experiments are given, the suit was guessed first in 10 and
the picture first in 4 cases. In those 4 cases the card was actually
a picture card once.
The following are the notes of the spontaneous experiences
mentioned above:-
N01Jember 14th, 1885. (H., aged two y8&1'll and four months.)
.. On Frida,., November 6th, on coming in from a walk, I went to the
nUl'llery, and J. (the nUl'lle) said to H., •Tell mother who you met-what
little girl.' The child hesitated and then said doubtfully, •Daisy.' •No,'
I said, •Margery.' •Oh, did you meet her then l' said J. I could only say
that I gu_ed. Then J. said, 'Tell mother what the little girl had on, and
you said you wouldn't like one.' Again, as H. hesitated, I said 'Had the
little girl a red cloak l' •Then you did see her,' said J. 1 had not seen the
child, and did not know that she had. a red cloak. As I said 'red cloak,' it
occurred to me that it might be lOme kind of bonnet, but • red clnak' said
itAelf."
(The little rgirl was Margery --, of whom we knew very little, and
were not in the habit of seeing. H. spoke very little at this time, and W&ll
alow a' getting the worda to express her thoughts, 80 that 1 was constantly
gueB8ing what she meant, before she finished speaking.]
March 23rd, 1888.
" Yesterday H. and 1 played' 1 love my love.' I have long thoulht
that shegu888ed what 1 was thinking of, and resolved to try. We had done
M and began N. She could not think of a quality beginning with N, 80 1
said, 'Well, gU888 mine,' and thought of Nice. 1 turned and looked at her
eyes, and she looked back, then she said at once INice. When we came to
·Digilized by Google
March,1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 37
the •sign,' I thought of Needle-usua.lly we choose an animal. When she
said she • would think of my word,' we looked as before, and she said slowly
Neat, but could attach no idea to it. She could find no quality in O. I
thought of Obedient. She (after looking as u8ual, I taking special care no"
to say the word with my lips) said slowly •O-be-di-en.' Then, after a pause,
• But that's not a nice thing to be,' (she apparently mixed it with dis-
obedient) showing that the word she was saying did not satiBfy her conception
of what she wanted."
NO'Vember 13th, 1888.
.. I have been taking a tonic lately after lunch, and H. likes to see me
take it. But em Wednesday, the 7th, I gave it up, and ahe did not remind
me of it as usual. Yesterday (Monday), as I got up from lunch, I thought,
•I will take my tonic to-day,' and at that minute H. said, •Take your
medicine.' I waa surprised and said, •But I have not been taking it
lately ; what made you think of it 1' H. said, 'I don't know; it came into
my head.'"
The last of these experiences is less striking than the other two,
but is worth mentioning in connection with them.
IMPORTANT CORRECTION
AND FURTHER PARTICULARS RESPECTING MR. DOBBIE'S CLAIRVOYANTS
AND MODE OF EXPERIMENTING.
Mr. Dobbie writes from Rothesay Villa, College Park, South
Australia, on January 6th, 1889 :-
Referring to case M. 6 [Jo1tT'ltal, Vol. Ill., pp. 333-6] a great mistake has
been made. I notice that at the bottom of page 335 of November
J oumal you state that you asked me for a copy of the notes .. taken at
the time of the experiment." You then quote my reply that in that
particular case I neglected to make notes at the time. Now that is quite a
mistake. The notes I sent you re the "sleeve link" case, and which
appear in the J01tTnal, are a copy of the notes I tVTote down the moment the
toords were uttered. I make a practice of doing so. When, in my letter of
October 17th, 1886, in reply to your query, I stated that I had not taken
notes at the time, I thought your question referred to an earlier case of
clairvoyance in connection with the finding of a gold pencil-case which had
been lost. I sent you the particulars,* but you have not published them, at
which I am surprised, because I consider it was by far the most remarkable
case of the three, the possibility of thought-transference being more
completely shut out.
I will now answer the questions.
(1) Whether my clairvoyants are in any way professional, or accept money
for their services 1
* We have Dot got the letter (dated, Mr. Dobbie tells UII, March 8th, 1886) which
contained these particulars, but hope that Mr. Dobbie may be able to let us have
them again.
38 Journal of Society fO'1' Psychical Research. [March, 1889.
:
Anawer: No, I have never given them a farthing, nor do I recompenae
them in any indirect way. In fact, the experimenta have been a great tax
upon them during the past four yean, and have greatly interfered with their
home duties.
(2) Are they well educated ?
Anawer: They are auffioiently educated (the young ladies I mean)
to conduot a aohool of yootlg ohildren, but make nC) pretenaion to the higher
branohes of learning. They are educated to about the same extent as those
who paaa through a good Government or State aohool, and are solid, sensible
young women of irreproachable oharacter. They have a 8Ohool of 60
young ohildren.
(3) Whether, in noting down conversations with olairvoyanta, I make a
note of the questiona as well as the answera, and whether I give merely a
summary of the information elicited1
Answer: I rarely ever interfere by asking 'lueationa, &8 I have found by
experience that the resulta are far more satisfactory when I simply remain
silent and write down aU the worda they utter, as I di.i in the oases of the
sleeve link and Coliseum. If you refer to the fifth line from the bottom of
page 336 of November Journal, you will notioe in italics a sentence whioh is
the weakest part of the whole; that was the result of my asking a question
whioh, as Mr. Adamson rightly says (on p. 338), .. should not have been
put." Mr. Williams, the male clairvoyant, is an intelligent young man of 24-
He baacharge ofone of the departmenta in one of the leadingdraperyestablish-
menta of this city (Adelaide). I have never, either directly or indirectly,
rewarded him in any way. He is fairly well educated.
METHOD OF QPERATIl!i'G.
My UlUal method of operating is to put them to sleep by a few paaaea,
and thenquietly to wait until they tell me they are ready. I then silently Blip
the artiole in queation into their handa, and in from two to five minutea
they begin to speak in a perfectly natural way, and I write down what they
say. In moat cases when the apecimen is the hair of a person who is ill, the
Miaaea Dixon will simply hold the hair in their hands for an interval of from
five to fifteen minutes, and then Bit up to the table, open their eyea (though
still asleep) and write out a diagnosis of the case and pre80ribe remedies.
In moat cases they correctly de80ribe the ailmenta, although in some caaea
(even when I am fully aware of the circumstances) they are entirely wroag.
Some of the cures have been very remarkable; but I am not prepared to
positively aaaert whether the curea were effected by the remedies, or were
the reBult of faith, or, in other worda, the action of the mind on the body.
* * * *
I have little confidence in the abilities of my olairvoyanta to track the
Whitechapel murderer. I tried them once in tracing a prominent man
who Buddenly disappeared from Adelaide two or three years ago,andW&8 found
dead a fortnight afterwards. My clairvoyanta inaisted that the man W&8 alive
arid wandering about south of Adelaide, whereas he must have been dead all
the time, and was found norlJi of Adelaide. Yours faithfully,
(Signed) A. W. DOBBIE.
Digitized by Google
Marcb, 1889.] Jowrnfil of Society fO'l' Psychical Research. 39
CASE SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G.l83.
I ga.ve an abstract of the following case of a haunted house (G. 183)
in my paper on "Phantasms of the Dead." (P'l'OCeedingB, Vol. III.,
p. 113.) Since then some further evidence has been obtained, and the
case is now probably as complete as we can at present hope to make it,
since there is little chance of obtaining Mrs. Robinson's address. It
will at once strike the reader that in all its recent appearances "the
ghost" of this case is very unlike the ghost of most of our narratives,
and its always appearing in the same part of the room, its
persistence for several minutes, its unchanging form during each
appeara.nce, all strongly suggest a real effect of light of some kind; and,
in fact, this is what suggested itself to several of the percipients. Its
slow movement backwards and forwards through, as appears from the
plan, a small angular distance is what might be expected if the effect
was due to a light outside, -say, a temporarily illuminated window,-
shining through a thin and slightly moving blind (with, perhaps, a
hole in it) and between the curtains. It would be rash to affirm that
this would be a sufficient explanation without knowing the place,
and without experimenting, but if a chance of verifying this
hypothesis should occur it is to be hoped that it will be made use of.
ELEANOR M. SlDGWICK.
Mr. Podmore writes :-1 saw Mrs. W. on July 8th, 1888, and she
gave me the facts which I embodied in the following narrative, since
corrected by Mrs. W.
8th Jtdy, 1888.
My father, John Hunter, was a surgeon practising in W--, and at
the time of his marriage his wife's mother and step-father, Mr. and Mrs.
Barber, rented V-- Cottage and came to live in it in order that they might
be near their only child. This would be about 1826, as I was bom in 1827.
I have always heard that they were told, as soon as they came to live
there, that the house was haunted; the story given to account for the haunt-
ing being very much what my son baa given in his letter of the 10th of June
last (see below), except that I never remember to have heard that my father
was called to the inquest. It is possible, however, that this was the case, as
my father practised in W-- before his marriage.
My grandfather died soon after coming to live in the house. My
grandmother, however, lived on In the house until 1851. After her death
my father bought it, but sold it again shortly afterwards. Some time after
my brother-in-law, Mr. A. bought it, and my 80n, J. H. W--, rented
it from him for some years. Recently Mr. A. haa again sold the house.
My sister and I, as children, occasionally slept in the house during my
grandmother'8lifetime. On one occaaion-I cannot remember the date, but
I was not 15 at the time - my sister, 15 months younger than myself,
Digitized by Google
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1889.
rushed into my bedroom, which was the inner room, crying out .. What
a shame to try to frighten me 10, Margaret." I was in bed, and when she
saw this she Will very much llltoniahed, and told me abe had seen in
the outer room a white figure behind the door, and thought it was I in my
nightdreu. We had both, I think, heard at this time that the house Will
said to be haunted, but we only laughed at it.
Some time afterwards I remember we both heard footsteps-as of a
man in stockings-going upstairs and about the house. We told our grand-
mother, who, in spite of our entreatiea-for abe Will very infirm and used a
crutch-insisted on going downstairs, but found no one there. The room in
which my aieter saw the figure-now aeparated from the "inner room,"
which has a aeparate entrance from the passage-is the same room in which
Mr. Hill and the others have since aeen a figure. But my son used to talk
about the .. haunted room .. to all his friends, and this may have caused
them to see 'he "ghost."
The evidence of Mrs. Robinlkln, who acted as caretaker for some
months. is the most reliable, for she had certainly never heard of the reputa.
tion of the house. I will try and find her addreu and IIIk her to write out
her account.
Of late years, whilat Jack hili occupied the houae, I have slept in the
"haunted room .. several tim8l, but have seen and heard nothing abnormal.
I should state that the villagers conceived a dislike to Mrs. RobinlOn,
and, I understand, tried to frighten her by flashing a bull's.eye lantern on
the house, and so on j but I don't think that any trick could account for the
figure which she saw.
The MS. of above was left with Mrs. W. for her signature and she
returned it the next day (July 9th) with a letter saying:-
"I have read over your notes attentively, and made one or two slight
alterations. I am lOrry that I can help you ao very little with regard to
da.t8l, and I must decline to affix my name to the document, or to Kive you
the name and addreu of my sister. She baa lost her husband and is 10 an
exceedingly delicate .tate of health. . . . In the cottage there were only
tl1ree bedrooms. One stood apart from the rest, branching off by be steps
from the staircase, and it was in that room that the murder was said to have
been committed, and there in early days the ghoat Will said to appear. But
no 0fII! of whom I have any knowledge ever saw the apparition there. The
other two rooms "ere cnnnected, not by any pulage, but you passod through
the one to get to the other, and it was in the first of these that people
profeued to see the spectre."
From Mr. J. H-- W--, 14, Southall.street,
Strange"ays, Manch8lter.
10th June, 1888.
Mrs. Adams lived in the houae for lome mOIlt.hl at t.wo or three different
periods.
The Robinsons occupied it one winter and spring. They may have
heard I)f " Lydia's ghost."
The hOUle has been sold and is now unoccupiecl.
Digitized by Google
March,I889.) JOU1"/U1,l 0/ Society /01' Psychical Research. 41
The story, aa I have heard, is that the house waa formerly occupied by an
<lId lady and her daughter Lydia. No sen'ant slept in the house, but a girl
-came to them every day from a neighbouring cottage. One moming, being
unable to rouse anyone to give her admittance, she became alarmed and went
for the doctor (my grandfather, John Hunter),who placed a ladder up to the
bedroom window and ascended it. Then he saw the two women lying on the
:floor with their throats cut. He waa too late to save the old lady, but having
sewed up Lydia's throat she recovered. Lydia averred that they had
mutually agreed to commit suicide (and I believe a verdict to that effect was
retumed in the one caae), but my grandfather expreued his opinion that the
old lady did not commit suicide, an opinion he formed from the position of the
body, which was lying with the neck carefully placed over a basin. He gave no
evidence to incriminate Lydia, as he considered her daft. Lydia afterwards
left the village, and no one knew what became of her. At last the idea
gained credence that her ghost haunted the cottage. Voild tout!
(Signed) J. H- W-.
Mr. A. G. Leonard and I saw Mrs. Adams and Sarah Newman in
January, 1885, and the following account was drawn up by us from
our recollection and notes of the conversation, and has been
subsequently signed as correct by the persons concerned.-F.P.
21, St. Bartholomew'l.road, N.
January, 1885.
Mrs. Adams says :-
I have never seen the light myself. Several people. however, have seen
it while I was in the cottage and have told me what they saw.
Mrs. Robinson (whOle address cannot now be ascertained) told me that
she Iowoke and saw the light on Christmaa Eve, 1883, between 12 and 1 a.m.
She thought it waa bne of her girls and said, "Maggie, is that you 1" On
receiving no answer, she got out of bed and the figure \·anished. So
convinced was she that it was one of the girll that she went into their room,but
found them both fast asleep. She returned to bed and the light reappea.red.
Sarah, my servant, has seen the light several times. She at first
attributed it to some reflection from the looking-glass. It waa I, however, who
placed the looking-glass in the loom, and Mrs. Robinlon had leen the light
before this was done.
Miss Wray. Mrs. W., Mrs. Robinson, Miss R. H--, Mr. Leonard
Hill ha\'e told me that they saw the light.
On one OCC&IIion,whE'n several of us, including Mr. Ruck,were downstairs,
Sarah came down and said, "Now if you all come up you can see the light."
We went up at once but the light had disappeared.
(Signed) M. ADAMS.
Sarah stated that this waa the only occaaion on which she saw the light
when she was not in bed. She was coming downstairs one evening last autumn
without a candle, and saw the light (through the open door) in the position
in which it alwaYI appeared-near the cupboard. She saw it move towards
the window and it seemed to settle on tbe blind. She ran downstairs and
called the others, but when they came nothing was visible.
Digitized by Google
42 JOWI"YULl of Society for Psychical Research. [Harcb. 1889.
The light seemed a bluish :flame about 2in. long, surrounded by a halo
about lOin. long by 6in. broad; or, as Sarah described it, it was ltright in
the centre with a light shadow round it. It appeared to be about 6ft. from
the ground. It never altered itaappearance as Sarah looked at it. It would
move slowly from the cupboard to the mantelpiece, to and fro, taking
about one minute in the passage. It always kept at about the same level.
After she had heard last autumn of the light being soen, Sarah determined.
to try and see it herself, and slept in the room for BOme time. She used to-
lie awake in the hopes of seeing the light and did distinctly see it several
timea-onoe, at the end of Ootober, 1884,three consecutive nights. The light.
always appeared (if it showed itself at all) between 12 and 1 a.m. Thia
Sarah ascertained by consulting a clock which stood in the room.
Sometimes she woke up and found it there, but more generally she was-
awake when it first appeared. Sarah was in the habit of waking up at odd
timea during the night, BO that no conclusion can be drawn from her having
done BO on these occasions.
On several nights she got out of bed but the light always vanished
as soon as she did BO, or as soon as she lit a candle. It would "anish all at
Ollce, not gradually as a reflection might do. When abe only sat up in bed
the light would remain.
Sarah profeBBed to think that thelight wasonly a reflection from thelooking-
glass. She stated that she had notlced that it was generally seen on moonlight
nighta. The light was always seen against a cupboard door which was painted
with ordinary dull paint, whence it would move to the fireplace and back. On
the hypothesis of ita being due to reflection from the window, Sarah was
quite unable to account for the movement of the light to and fro, as the
mirror was fixed to the wall. She did not think that any movement of the
blind, through a draught, would sufficiently account for the motion. The
villagers think the place to he haunted. It is an old cottage-about a
century old. They say that a girl murdered her mother here. There are
stains-supposed to be blood·stains-on the floor, "hich ('.annot be scrubbed
clean.
For BOme time during 1884, Sarah slept in the front ground-floor room.
It is now used as a sitting-room. The head of her bed was against the
partition between the room and the hall. She used to hear regularly every
night. between 12 and 1 a.m., a BOund as if someone was rapping with his
knuckle! at the head of the bed. This was continued for BOme time, and
Sarah was quite unable to account for it.
16tJl JanuaT!f, 1885.
(Signed) SAlWI NBWMAN.
From Mr. Leonard Hill, 45, Carlton Hill, N. W.
18th March, 1887.
- In the autumn of 1884 I was staying with Mr. W-- at his cottage a~
W--. and during my visit I saw the vision described below.
It was on the night of Sunday, September the 21st, 1884, that it appeared
to me. I occupied the bedroom. which is upon the first floor. by myself ;
it was the second night 1 had slept in this room alone, but my wife, who
Digitized by Google
....-.....
Hareh, 1889.} Joo/1"1wJ, of Society for Psychical Jl.eseairch. 43
was on theae occaaiODl sleeping with her mother in the next room, had
previously occupied it with me for about a week.
The following diagram repreeenta the room with the furniture in ground
plan; the measurements 'liven are gueaeed from my recolllK.-tion only, and
are not preciae.
",I
.B
I •...... e'
......... .. ........ -.....
R S • 1"···3r..~~
I : ~ WARDROBE
W"
"'~ ,"A
: :JJ . w
,.
,
~ ...........~~ ....... i , ,
" B..--
,
,
,
,
::z: ,,
,., ,
:I>
BED"
,
c
.
,
,
I0"
,
,
..,
0
0
-t
,, D
.'
. :II
IQ
III
I WINDOW D
~.-3' Gjz..~
...
- .
:II .
...
"
,...
:. :
+.
n,
lilt
If
Before proceeding further, I should state that I had heard second·hand
iCCOunta of the .. ghost" having been seen in this room by Mn. Robinson
and others, but I had not had any confirmatory ovidence of it myaelf.
At about 3 a.m. (i.e., to be precise, on the morning of September 22nd).
I woke up, naturally, so far as I know; I was lying on my right Bide-that
is, with my face towards the Welt wall. I was perfectly conlCioua and wide
awake, and though not aware of anything abnormal occurring in the room, I
had a feeling of conatraint to tum round to look towards the east wall.
Turning my head over my shoulder I saw there a hazy column of light,
extending from about a foot,or a little more than a foot.above the ground,and
lOme five feet in height. The room was pitch dark, and I could see absolutely
nothing but the light. which was, I noticed, about where I remembered the
wardrobe was.* I then turned round again, shut my eyes, and settled
myself with the idea of getting to sleep, but soon again turned to look at the
object. I had not any feeling of actual fear, only a slight nervousness and
chillineBII, except for a moment when I fancied it was coming towards me.
Upon looking intently at the light, I observed it to be of a misty, almost
phosphoreacent nature, having the distinctive character of appearing to be
illuminated from within. It then appeared gradually to aaaume a definite
form. and in the course of, say. 5 or 10 seconds-though it aeemed to me
longer at the time-I concluded it was of the form of a woman in a night-
drell, whether an old woman or young I could not say j in a few seconds
more, however, I made out that it had the appearance of a young woman
• The wardrobe has plaiD, painted doors, not glazed, and is not capable of
reflecting light.
Digitized by Google
44 Journal of Society fOT P8ychical Research. [Karch, 1889.
bending alightly forward, with the near right arm slightly extended, and the
hand a little raised ; the face-of which I remembeI seeing only about half or
three-quarten-alBO somewhat forward, the attitude altogether giving the
idea that; she waa looking for something on the floor. The head waa covered
by a white hood, with a white band paaaing underneath the chin, like
6 nun's headdreBB. The contour of the face waa rather oval, but
I could not distinguish any featurell. The light waa brighter and
leBB misty just below what I took to be the nightdreBB, giving
me the idea that I saw feet, though without definite form; the
face &lao waat I think, somewhat brighter than the rest of the body. and
it appeared aa though the dreBB veiled the light and thus rendered it
misty. I now remembered Mrs. RobinBOn's explanation of the appearance
6B being catlsed pOBBibly by a light from outside the window being thrown
-into the room. I thereiore turned my head quite round to the right-I was
roclining with my body a little raised on my left elbow, 1 think, and my
head turned a little to my left-in order to see if any rays of light were
croBBing the room. There was no light whate\'er acroBB the room, of this
am perfectly certain ; but I was struck with the fact that I saw no sign of
the window: the apparitiun was the only thing in the room that was visible.
Until this time it had remained resting (1 can hardly say standing, all it
waa not touching the ground) where it fint appeared to me, at A, but it now
commenced to move towards the fireplace, rising a little as it went, moving
as a whole, without any change of either form or attitude, and ita motion
was not perfectly regular,it almost stopped some three or four times in travel-
ling from A to B.
On reaching B it remained a moment and then returned backwardB (i.e.,
without turning round) in a similar manner: this to and flO movement,
between A and B, it repeated two or three times, and then moved onwards
to C., still rising a little aa it went, until it wu about three feet, or a little
.1ess, off the ground ; it then stood still for BOme seconds, after which it
moved very slowly towards where 1 knew the window waa; then it seemed
to oscillate and I couldn't make out what I saw ; then it vanished and I saw
the window and the whole of the room normally.
During the wbole of the vision the room seemed to me unnaturally dark,
!ind I am not ccnscioul of having been able to see any object in the room
(except perhaps the bar at"the foot of the bed), while the apparition was at
C, but of this I have only a confused recollection. Directly the column of
light vanished, however, I could see the window and other things with some
distinctneBB. Upon this taking place I jumped out of bed instantly and
went to the window, and raised tbe corner of the white blind. which
was drawn down the whole way. It was a clear, starlight night,
with DO moon, and everything was perfectly still. I looked down
-directly OJ: to the roof of the bay window below -and, afterwards. out of the
open window-to see if I could discover &Dyone there. because that waa the
<lnly position from which such a light might be thrown into the room, and
to reach that position a short ladder would be necessary. I could not dis-
c~ver nor hear anything, and I feel convinced that the light was not cut
into the room by any artificial means.
Digitized by Google
March, 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea,·ch. 45
Though startled, I had not any feeling that I had been looking at some-
thing supernatural. I at first concluded it was caused by my waking up
suddenly, and mislocating tho window, imagining it to have got into the
wrong place, because when I looked round I could not see it, and because
lying awake afterwards I could create the figure out of the window and
blind; but on thinking the matter over afterwards I felt that that explanation
was not adequ!l.te. 1 have not slept in the room since.
(Signed) LEONARD HILL.
I saw Mr. Leonard Hill in the late autumn of 1884. He gave me
a full account of what he had seen, corresponding with that given above.
He has seen no hallucination at any other time.
He was disposed at first to think his experience was in some way
due to his having mistaken the position of the window and having
taken the waving blind for a moving figure. But he afterwards, in
the course of conversation, dropped this interpretation, and confessed
himself unable to account for what he had seen.
He told me that though he had heard rumours of the ghost, he had
heard no details of the actual figure seen.-F. P.
From Miss B--.
Octobe1' 30th, 1884.
It was only one night that I saw the strange blue light of which Mr.
w--speaks. I had often slept in the same room before, but never seen or
heard anything to disturb me. But this night, after being asleep for about
two hours, I suddenly awoke, and had a feeling that there was something
unusual about the room. For a little while the feeling was so strong that I
would not open my eyes, but when I did I saw a strange blue light, about
six feet high and two broad'. I must confess to being a little frightened at
first, then thought, What nonsense to be frightened at what call be accounted
for if you only look calmly into it. But look and argue as I would, there
was nothing that could possibly cause this light, and as I watched it it passed
away. This worried me, but after a time I went to sleep, but twice again
woke in the same startled manner and saw this light, which was unlike any-
thing I have before seen. It had the appearance of a shrouded human figure.
Each time I saw it it remained about five minutes, then faded away; twice
it was on the left-hand side of the fireplace, but the last time I saw it it was
between the fireplace and the window. What this thing was I know not; it
was no optical delusion, and I was wide awake at the time I saw it. For
more than a week after this I slept in the same room, hoping 1 might &gain
see and be able to account for this strange appearance, but it never visited
me again. I hate written at greater length than I intended. and fear I
have given but a weak descriptionof what I saw. Oue wants to Bee this light
to be able to realise how strange and I1nreal it is. If anyone were to ask me,
Do I believe in ghosts 1 I should say I most certainly did not, at the same
time I should be very glad if the mystery of that night could be cleared up.
(Signed) R-- A. H-.
Digitized by Google
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1889.
Mr. A. G. Leonard saw Miss H- in the spring of 1885, and
ascertained from her the following additional particulars :-
Before occupying the room she had heard that the house was haunted.
but not the precise form of the ghost. The appearance came three times in the
course of the night, and grew more distinct each time: at first it appeared
simplyas a light, which assumed the shape of a shrouded figure ; the same
shape was preserved on the two subsequent occasions, but the figure seemed
more defined. Miss H-- went to sleep in the intervals.
Mia H-- looked towards the window, but could see no light
emanating from thence. The night-light was burning all the time, and
by its light she could see the various objects in the room distincUy. The
appearance did not move, and seemed to her, on the last occasion, to
remain for five or six minutes. It then vanished all at once.
She felt very cold; and as if there were something extraordinary in
the room-a mysterious presence.
Mia H-- states that she is not imaginative and that she lIas never
experienced any other hallucination.
(Signed) A. G. LEONARD.
May 11th, 1888.
Miss Wray writes in March, 1885 :-
About six mont.hs before I went to stay at W--, someone mentioned
in my hea.ring that a ghost was said to appear there. At the time I
was engaged in conversation, and paid very little attention to what was
said. Certainly I had not the least idea what form the apparition was supposed
to take. The first day I was at the .. Cottage" I asked Miss Adams which
WllS the haunted room. She told me they had decided not to let any l'isitors
know ; she also said they had seen nothing themselves, and believed the
whole thing to be a superstitious idea of the village people. As far as I can
remember, it was about the 9th or 10th of September [1884] when I first
,dept alone in the room which I afterwards found was the one reputed to be
haunted. I had a night-light, and awoke between twelve and one o'clock,
but saw nothing unusual. The following night it was \'ery dark, there being
no moonlight; and, if I remember aright, it was thick and foggy, with no
stars to be seen. I had no night-light, having forgotten to ask for one. For
some time before going to sleep I read by candle·light. Between twelve
and one o'clock I awoke with a horrible sensation of fright and cold
The room was quite dark, with the exception of a pale blue light,
with scarcely any perceptible form, about the height of a middle-
sized woman. I immediately sat up, but the bed hid from me the
lower part of the light. The upper part was slightly shaped in the
rounding of the head and shoulders, but very indistinctly, no features
or arms being visible. The light appeared to be near the left-hand side of
the mantelpiece. and I looked at it for some minutes, trying to account for a
light being there, but on seeing an almost imperceptible movement in it I
became frightened and lit my candle. I then got up and walked about the
room but could see nothing, and looking out of the window found that the
night. was still very dark. I returned to bed and fell asleep with the candle
Digitized by Google
March, 1889.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 47
burnmg and was not again disturbed. In the morning I told Mrs. Adams
what I had seE'n. Since then I have seen Mr. Leonard, who has asked me to
write an account of what I saw. I feel now tho.t it is very little and ho.rdly
worth telling. Since then I have heard that there are others who have seen
the appearance much more diatinctly, lind who describe their aensationa as
having been very disagreeable.
In another letter Miss Wray says:-
April 8th, 1885.
DEAR SIR,-The questions contained in your letter of March the 30th I
will now ~ry to answer.
I was living at W. from the last week of August to the third week of
September last year, and I believe it was on the night of the 10th of
September that I saw the atrange appearance in the" haunted room."
Before aeeing you I had heard from Mr. Leonard Hill hia account of the
"ghoat," but I did not think it agreed with my own experience. Perhaps
YOIl may remember that evening at Mrs. Adams' that Misa H-- gave the
greater part of her account after I left, and we had not before that time
spoken of the matter to each other. Sarah'a account of what she saw I have
not yet heard. I did not sleep in the" haunted room" after the night on
which I saw the apparition. When talking to you I did mention having once
had a feeling that something or someone was bending over me, but this might
easily be attributed to nightmare, as I am not aubject to hallucinati'.>na.
(Signed) CONSTANCE WRAY.
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
(Recent .Additions.)
*Du PREL (Dr. Carl) The Philoaophy of Mysticism. From the German
by C. C. Massey, 2 vola...•........•.......................•... Lmulnn, 1889
tMumHEAD (Henry, M.D.) On the Mode of Mental Inter-communica-
tion in Thought-willing and Thought-reading.••..•..•...... Glasgow, 1882
BINET (Alfred) Etudes de Psychologie Experimentale............. Paris, 1888
BOURRU (Dr. H. et Dr. P. Burot) Variationa de 1& Personalite Paris, 1888
LItGEOIS (Julea) De la Suggestion et du Somnambuiame dans leurs
Rapports avec la Jurisprudence et la Medecine Legale.••..• Paris, 1889
BAUMLER (Prof. Christian) Der sogenannte Animalische Magnet-
ismua oder Hypnotismua ..•..........•.........•..•..•..•..•.•.......Leipzig, 1881
BENEDIKT (Prof. D. Moritz) Ueber Katalepsie und Mesmerismua
(Wiener Klinik. March, 1880) .....•..•.••.••............••.......Vienna, 1880
BENOIT (und Biat·Chretien) Der Gedanken Telegraph ...... Weimar, 1852
BERGER (Prof.) Hypnotische Zuatii.nde und ihre Genese. (Bres-
Zauer Aertz. Zeitsch. May 22nd and June 12th, 1880, pp. 119 and
121) ••••.•..•..•.•.•.•.•...•.....•........•..••••.••.••...•..•••.....• BresZau, 1880
BROOK (Dr. H.) Ueber Stoftliche Veranderungen bei der Hypnoae.
(Deutsche Med. Wack. NOfi. 6th, 1880, p.598) ........• Leipzig, 1880
BUCHNER (Dr. Ludwig) Doppeltea Bewuaztaein. (Die Garlenlaube.
NO'I1. 6f}r" 1878, p. 101) ..•..•••.•••..••••.•,................................. 1878
" Presented by the Tranala.tor. t Preoented by tbe Author.
Digitized by Google
48 Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychical Research. [March,l889.
CARUS (Carl Gustav) Ueber Lebena Magnetismus............... Leipzig. 1857
DIBSBL (Th.) Magnetotherapie. Der Animalische oder Lebens·
Magnetismus als Heilmethode und Heilmittel ............ Mwnich, 1888
DROSDOW (Dr. W. J.) Ueber Hypnotismus. (Oentralblatt fur die
Med. WiBB. April 9th. 1881, p. 275) ........................ Berlin, 1881
EULl!NBURG (Prof. Dr. A.) Ueber ·Galvano.Hypnotiamua. (Wiet.er
Med. Presse, No. 13, 1880) .................................... Vietma, 1880
EULENBU.RG (Prof. Dr. A.) Ueber Galvano.Hypnotismus, hysterische
HA~?:1~t~)d If:e~~~u~~~~:····(V;;,;:··F~i;··~~~~···M;;;;·N~:·5; 1880
p. 489,.1885) ................................................... Stuttgart, 1885
HBIDENHAIN (Dr. Rudolph) Der sogenannte thierische Magnetismua
Leipzig, 1880
HBIDBNHAIN (Dr. R. und P. Griitzner) Halbaeitiger Hypnotismus,
Hypnotische Aphasie,Farbenblindheit und Mangel des Temperatur.
sinnes bei Hypnotischen. (Breslauer Aertz. ~eitsch. Feb. 28th.
1880, p. 39) ............. ... ..................... ..... ............... Bre&a1.', 1880
HB.RING, Ueber Hypnotismus .......................................... Berlin, 1888
HOFFE (Professor Dr. J. 1.) Erklii.rung der Sinnestauschungen bei
Gesunden und bei Krallken (4th edition) ............... W1.'rtwurg. 1888
HOFRICHTER (Leo Napoleon) Der Lebenamagnetismull ala Heilmittel
Dresden. 1886
BOHNE (Johann Christiane) Die in Dreaden sich Aufhaltende Som·
nambule ............................................................... DrUdetl, 1840
KANT (Immanuel) Traiime eines Geisteraeher. erlaiitert durch
Traume der Metaphysik .......................................... Leipzig. N.D.
KAROLY (Dr. Akon) Das Gedankenleaen. (Das Neue Blatt, No. 35,
p. 555. 1884) ..................................................................... 1884-
KERNER (Dr. Juatinus) Das Madchen von Orlach (2 copiea)
'&utl·it~en. N.D.
KISTNER (Alfona) Hypnotismus in England und Fraukreich. (.l\ord
1.'nd Sud. ,oJep., 1886, p. 394) ............. .............. Konigsberg, 1886
LANGSDORFF (Dr. Georg von) Zur Einfuhrung in das Studium des
Magnetismus, Bypnotismus, Spiritualismus ..................BeTU", 1889
- - - Das Sterben. (A translation from Hudson Tuttle) Berlin. 1889
LOTZ (Carl) Das sogenannte Tischriicken oder der Verkehr mit
Veratorbenen: mit Zeichnungen, Schriften und Rechnungen
Verstorbener................................................ Kaiserslautern, 1855
MAACK (Ferdinand) Zur Einfiihrung in das StudiuDl des Hypno.
tismus und thierischen Magnetismus ...........................Berlin, 1888
MANTEGAZZA (Paul) Die Ekstasen des Menschen : aus dem ltalienischen
von Dr. R. Tenscher ................................................... Jena, 1888
MAYER (Dr. A.) Die Sinnestii.uschungen, Hallucionationen und
lliusionen ............................................................... Vienna, 1869
MENDEL (E. ) Der Hypnotismus nnd seiDe Verwerthungals Heilmittel.
(Die Nation. Jan. 14th, 1888. p. 222) .................................... 1888
MESMER (Dr. F .A.) Allgemeine Erlauterungen iiber den Magnetismus
lind den Somnambulismus............................................. lilalle, 1812
MEYER (Professor G. Hermann) Ueber Sinneatii.uschungen (2nd
edition) .................................................................. Berlin, 1871
NOTZING (Albert von) Ubersinnliche Eingebungen in der Hypnose
(Scharers Familienblatt. Nov. 21st, 1887) ................................. 1887
t Ueber HypDotismus und Suggestion .............................. 1889
t Presentedby thll Author.
The remainder qf this list will be given in the April number qf the "Journal."
Digitized by Google
