{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1laurie_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Laurie C NDE 4241","mylang":"de"}
          	        Laurie C NDE 4241  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Laurie C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2074 Laurie C NDE 4241  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember seeing those car lights [was going to say on our side of the road], then total blackness.  I thought to myself, I'm dead.  So, this is death.  I wasn't at all frightened, and when I thought about how I should be frightened, a wave of pure love washed through my being.  I felt totally at peace and very safe, and love was in me and around me everywhere.  I was calm and had no thought of the accident.  No pain, just absolute peace.  I remember thinking that I could still think and noticed how alert I was.  Then a voice said to me, ‘do you want to stay or do you want to go back?’  The clarity of that sentence was amazing, and as clear as it was, I didn't know if it was male or female. I said, ‘I've just had a baby [4 1/2 months old] and the next thing I knew I was on the side of the road with someone holding me and I was gasping for breath.  

Before the accident, as I was getting into the car, a voice said, also with extreme clarity, ‘car accident’, that's all. Just those two words. I looked around but no one was there. It was the most fantastic experience and I feel very grateful for it. I no longer feel any fear about death and now know when others die that they’re ok and their lives have not ended.   It was a very enlightening and rewarding experience and it has changed the way I think and feel. The experience is always with me every day and the clarity of it is still there, and I would even say the love that comes with it grows stronger.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  '6 th may, 1984'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'broken leg ribs collar bone, and punctured lung, all on the left side'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The entire time, but I don't know how long that was.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time, but I don't know how long that was.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Unaware of time passing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was total darkness, black.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The clarity of the voice.  Other than the voice there was no sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I heard a voice.  It asked me did I want to stay or did I want to go back.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and peace absolute

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   no religion

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now know there is divine love and that being a good decent caring human being is what it's all about.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know there is divine love and that being a good decent caring human being is what it's all about.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   You seem to be in the knowledge.  You are it, it becomes you, it's infinite knowledge, and you’re absorbed into it.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes More caring and less selfish.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was unable to give the full depth of the whole experience as there is nothing to compare with in this life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Knowing things before they happen, vivid dreams that show future events of my life that come true, I can now see auras and work on the energy field around the body, also when I think about my NDE, I then project the love outwards and others can feel it.  I don't use it as a party trick only when I think it is necessary.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The fact that there's no fear, that you can still think and be alert, that love is death and in fact you don't die, and that you have a guide. Someone is with you; you’re not alone.  And that you are totally at peace, it's all encompassing love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About 2-3, possibly 4 years.  They were on the one hand fascinated, but also unbelieving.  It was about five or more years before I spoke of it again.  Same reaction. Now I tell anyone who I think might need to know, people who have lost loved ones and people who fear death, and who are dying themselves.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Awe, confusion about what to do next, it's like you have special knowledge that everyone needs to know, but you'll sound crazy if you were to say anything.  It took years for me to find my way with it all but now I feel very comfortable with all of it and very lucky to have had this amazing experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can now help where help is needed with peoples’ health, it has allowed me to have access to a love and healing that would not have been possible without this experience. The NDE is always with me.  In other words, love is always with me and my life is so much richer for that.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You were very clear and I was able to answer all the questions.  Thank you for giving me this opportunity.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1laurie_c_nde.html