{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1laurie_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Laurie G NDE 703","mylang":"de"}
          	        Laurie G NDE 703  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Laurie G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						230  Laurie G NDE  703  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in the Wal-Mart walking around with my mom a couple of days before Christmas.  I began to feel some strange sensations; my lips got puffy, my feet started to tingle, my hands started swelling and I recognized it as an allergic reaction because I had asthma as a child and some allergy problems.


I told my mom to go to the pharmacy area and get me some allergy medication, I believe I ask for Benadryl thinking that would relieve my symptoms and told her I was going to the car to try to relax.


When I got to the car, I sat down and began to feel more and more uncomfortable.


Certainly, my mom didn't realize the severity of the situation and the store was very crowded because of last minute Christmas shopping.  I don't know how long it was until she got to the car but I would guess fifteen to twenty minutes. During this time I became increasingly uncomfortable and wasn't sure what was happening to me other than I realized it was allergic. As time passed I began to have an overwhelming feeling that I was about to die. I became very frightened and began trying to relax because I was losing the ability to breath. I began to struggle with my clothes, pulling at them because of the burning and itching sensation in my skin. Finally, my mom came and when she opened the door, I had very little room left in my airway to breath. In a strained effort, I uttered the word 'ambulance'. I then keeled over in the seat of the car. I remember that I was aware that people were gathering around the car. The passenger's side of the front seat was where my head was positioned.


The door opened and a woman began trying to give me mouth to mouth. A man pulled her away. At that point, I was still struggling to breath, and frightened, but no longer physically fighting.


Suddenly, something happened to me. I felt as though I was floating. I did not see a light or any entities or people who have died. I just felt this flood of warmth wrap around me. The only thing I can metaphorically describe it too is what it must feel like to be in the womb before you are born. It was like floating in a liquid bubble. I had a sensation of serenity that I cannot describe. I would describe if for you if I could find the right adjective but there just isn't one, at least not that I'm familiar with. It was like perfect peace. I felt NO pain, and no more struggle.


The ambulance arrived and I remember watching the ambulance crew put me on the gurney as though I was standing outside my body. I wasn't frightened - but more, just amazed.  At the same time, I was so engrossed in the feeling of peace that I was not really totally absorbed in what I was observing. It was kind of a dual thing going on where I was watching it thinking it was very interesting, and then I realized I wasn't going to die because I sort of intuitively (I guess) knew that help had arrived on time and they would save my life. The most extraordinary thing I can share with you is the feeling I had. It was just a feeling of tremendous serenity and peace. I have never forgotten it and I have often wondered if this was just like the beginning of a NDE. It was dark, no lights - but it was so comforting and warm.


I remember being back in my body at some point in the ambulance - and somewhat semi-aware of the work they were doing to save my life.


Many hours later as I was leaving the hospital, I recognized the ambulance people who had worked on me. They were there, perhaps having brought in another patient. I thanked them for helping me. I remember they had a very astonished look on their face and I didn't realize until later that I could not have physically recognized them because I was not conscious. I reasoned that perhaps I recognized their voices as I do remember hearing them speak in the ambulance but it was a sense more specific than that - as though I recognized their faces. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    December 23,  1995

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction  anaphylactic shock due to allergy of PCN  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Anaphylactic shock.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I can't describe my form. It was as if I was somewhat formless and yet I existed apart from my body. A sensation of weightlessness yet it was so real. Is hard to explain.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious and then semi-conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   That's hard to answer but I want to say yes. Altered space - like a different place.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I came away with the sense that, wow, there is something after death.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   belief in God

What is your religion now?      Moderate   belief in God, Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Certainly more confident that death is nothing to fear.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Particularly the feeling that I had.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The physical discomfort was the worst part.  The best part was coming away with the sense that death should not be feared

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have shared the experience occasionally.  I don't know if they were affected.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Yes, I tend to lean towards the scientific - always a skeptic - because of my education and my knowledge that many variables can influence events and experiences.  I do not believe this was a function of my brain to make death easier. It just doesn't add up in my mind.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Glad you are doing scientific research on this subject. Was happy to contribute my experience.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1laurie_g_nde.html