{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1laurent_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Laurent C NDE 8158","mylang":"de"}
          	        Laurent C NDE 8158  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Laurent C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4258 Laurent C NDE 8158  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in Paris, France.  In February 2008, during a motorcycle accident a car hit my stomach fracturing my liver, spleen and solar plexus. The  fire brigade arrived and took me to the hospital. I suffered for three hours before they made  an x-ray of my lungs. The nurse wanted me to stand upright for the x-ray. At the time,  it was impossible for me to speak because I was exhausted and short of breath.   I refused as I couldn't move. The Nurse insisted I cooperate. So I tried to get up, but when I I got to the front of the machine she asked me, 'Sir? Are you okay?' In the time it took to answer 'No!' I was gone. 

  				    I was  far away in a white, luminous, infinite, and peaceful immensity. It was as if I were floating. I was serene and omniscient. I never felt as happy as during that moment!
  				    
  I don't know how long this interlude took. It finished with an old nurse on top of my body who was slapping me, saying 'Sir, wake up!' She was above me with a deep concern that you could see on her face.
  
  The return to 'reality' has been a nasty disappointment. I was better of over there.  I'm reconnecting trying to reconcile the accident, the pain, my parents, and my job trying to find out  what's wrong with me.
  
  On my return, my breathing had become normal again. I wasn't trembling anymore. I didn't feel an inner coldness anymore. I no longer  felt like I was in a state of shock.
  
  I returned to the serenity that for me it remained  until not long ago.

  Recently, this summer with friends we talked about our misadventures and motorcycle accidents. I told them my story in detail with  the bad and  happy memories that this experience left me with.

  Dumbfounded, they finally asked me if I knew about NDEs and their symptoms. I answered 'no' and am myself dumbfounded to discover what I finally experienced.  But I do think that my NDE was very light and short, as I do not have all the details described in more incredible stories.

  The memory of this moment that I passed 'somewhere else' is still hyper- present and significant in my daily life.  Since that time, I sense 'things' that didn't manifest before like sensations, intuitions, and a little interior voice to which I tend to easier listen to.  Furthermore I lost three people that have been particularly dear to me, and today I have the feeling to have them permanently very close near me.

  I don't take drugs; I don't consult psychics or esoteric gurus. I don't read the horoscope of the 'Parisien' (newspaper).   But since some time I have the feeling, even the conviction, tainted with some fear  of a 'dimension' concerning 'the afterwards'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  28 février 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Internal bleeding

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No.    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   The sensation of having an infinite knowledge: philosophical, scientific, and wisdom.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't understand the question.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     Impossible to define 'the quantity of time' passing in this space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.   A white and luminous immensity, but it was empty with  nothing; no elements and no persons were there.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.  No acoustic sensations.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     An empty white immensity that was infinite.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt serenity, happiness, plenitude, joy, wisdom, and full of life.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in an 'afterwards'.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?  I felt that there is something

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I had no specific beliefs before.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes      A secondary dimension

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I didn't 'discover' it the afterlife, but rather it is a conviction that implanted itself, that the existence persists.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life.     The feeling of being surrounded by  guardian angels.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain.   A form of sensual delight of a 'communion with a great whole'.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes        8 years

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     A new fact, but an unheard of and rare new 'normality'.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish I could re-experience this experience!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1laurent_c_nde.html