{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1laura_s_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Laura S Possible NDE 8057","mylang":"de"}
          	        Laura S Possible NDE 8057  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Laura S Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4188 Laura S Possible NDE 8057  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					One day in July, I felt ill with cramps and could not walk or urinate.  I told my sister.  A friend took us to the hospital and I was put into an oxygen tent. However, I did not know what an oxygen tent was until a few days later when the nurses told me. My experience was before surgery and while I was in the oxygen tent.  I had received last rights before the appendectomy. 
 
 During my experience, I felt very happy, calm, and not frightened.  It was a very strange, warm feeling like being lowered into warm bath water. I saw a most beautiful color blue that I have never seen since my experience.  My deceased mother came out of the blue- color background.  She was smiling and wearing the light purple dress she had on when she passed away.  On my mother's right side and a bit behind her, was our deceased parish priest wearing his priest clothing.  I felt the urge to go to my mother but she repeatedly motioned with both arms to go back and to not approach.  After that, the experience just ended. 
 
 When I did wake up, I saw the nurses who told me I had a tough time.  They told me that I kept calling for my mother and that I had the last rights.  The nurse asked why I kept calling for my mother.  I told her that I saw my mother, and that she had died in this same hospital and she was in an oxygen tent, too. The nurses also told me that I kept telling the priest, giving me the last rights, that I was 106 years old.  I would laugh like crazy and had them laughing, too. After surgery, I told the nurse that I saw my mother who had died a long time ago.  My mother passed away 8 years prior when I was 10 years old.  When I did have surgery, they left the incision open to drain the poison.  My sister had to give me blood and I was hospitalized for one month.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1951

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness.        Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Burst appendix.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The same normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious during the experience and after.  The people and color blue, which I saw during my experience, were very clear and sharp.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was the same.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No one spoke to me during the experience but I heard myself call out twice to my mother.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceased mother and a deceased parish priest

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A shade of soft, light blue, such as I had never seen again, even though I have looked for it after the experience.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very happy to see my mother but confused when she motioned me away.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I saw the priest from my parish who had passed away, in my experience.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     An afterlife definitely exists

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes just got older.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    The experience was so real and profound that I have never forgotten the details and how I felt.  Also, I did not and do not tell too many others.  In fact, I told a very, very few about my experience because I feel others will not believe me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Only significant in that, I do not share this with many others.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was 6 months or so until I told my two sisters and a friend. After that, I did not speak about it for many years. My sisters' reactions were that they wished that they had seen our mother, too.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it was very real, even after all of these years.  In fact, I can remember it as if it just happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it was very real, even after all of these years.  In fact, I can remember it as if it just happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No other questions needed.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1laura_s_possible_nde.html