{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1laura_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Laura S NDE 4490","mylang":"de"}
          	        Laura S NDE 4490  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Laura S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2254 Laura S NDE 4490  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My mother was driving to my aunt's house on Christmas Eve; we stopped and picked up a small dog. A car hit us at an intersection, right where I was sitting. I don't remember the impact but I do remember the dog flying from my arms. After that, I was looking down and watching. It was a cold winter day but I was not cold or warm. I could see them take me from the car and put me in an ambulance I watched them but was okay and happy but somehow I know I had to return and I did in the ambulance.

I have never shared this experience before, but it has affected my life more then I realized until now. After reading 'Evidence of the Afterlife' it is so clear. I am by most standards a quiet person that keeps to me. I have known that we are all connected from that day on, and that we and all around is the light the knowledge. I know what people are feeling and I know random things, the most powerful was a few years ago. I was on a short trip with a friend and her husband, I heard a deep male voice say 'Sarah dies' it was real and I know a Sarah had died. I just didn't know what Sarah. I instantly told my friend who just gave me a strange look. About five hours later, I received a phone call, Sarah a sweet girl and neighbor died in an auto accident. Her time of death is listed shortly after the male voice told me she died.

I believed for many years that everyone had these experiences in their lives and it was normal. I have learned over the years that it is not normal and at times judged so I don't speak of it much. I have never been competitive and see personal ego as the source of evil in this world, the elimination of ego is associated to the light and the knowledge.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/24/1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Auto accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   All was equal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All was equal.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was there watching but I wasn't there I could have left and went to full and complete love.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brightness, color, and depth. As I watched, I knew who everyone was including me or my body but I was not aware that this was not a normal occurrence during an accident. It was all okay to my five year old mind.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear I just somehow knew.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was bright all around me but I could still see the events below.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     The knowing was in a deep tone.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   All around me it was light, not like a cloud more transparent less solid but more real.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       No emotion.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have at times known things before they happened.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Parents were Christians

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I'm not attached to a religion. I believe there are errors made within each religion; my spiritual connection is pure and real.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I'm not attached to a religion. I believe there are errors made within each religion; my spiritual connection is pure and real.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned the world is all one. We are the light and we are given gifts of the light, gifts of knowledge.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I am for the most part free of ego because I know we are all connected.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm given words to be written. I know people's emotions, and sometime I just know random events.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The gift of knowing to this day gives me a calmness.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The random events I have shared with some, the voice telling me about Sarah I shared with family. My sister said 'You have always known things.'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was five, I was happy about it yet thought it was something that happened to all. Regardless I know it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I feel it; I've learned or gained knowledge from it. It was real and gave me more than I know at the time.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1laura_s_nde.html