{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1laura_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Laura R NDE 2182","mylang":"de"}
          	        Laura R NDE 2182  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Laura R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						612  Laura R NDE  2182  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was playing in the water near the shore with my brother when I stepped into a big hole and went under. I struggled to get to the surface and began to panic as I ran out of air. I remember struggling to breathe, and then the panic left me and I felt as if I were breathing, yet I was still under water.

I saw my tiny form curled up in a fetal position receding away from me, down into the dark green water. I felt euphoria as I started toward the surface and toward the bright light, which shimmered just above the water. I struggled to reach the surface and the light, but before I could break the surface, I woke up on the beach and there were a bunch of people around pumping water out of me. That's all I remember.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer 1953  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was a small child playing at the beach and I got into deep water over my head.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In normal every day consciousness, there is fear and pain and doubt. In a spiritual state separated from the body, there is no fear, pain, and doubt. There is only a sense of perfect peace and comfort.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I separated from my body and turned toward the light at the surface of the water I felt a great sense of euphoria and peace.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Moving toward the light at the surface seemed to take a long time, or happen in slow motion.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision as a spirit was clear. My normal vision underwater would be clouded, eyes burning from salt water.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember any sound.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was incredibly bright, but just above the surface of the water. I struggled toward it, like a moth to a flame, but before I broke the surface I woke up on the beach.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First panic as I suffocated, then perfect peace and euphoria, and even a sense of breathing and taking in oxygen.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have no interest in organized religion, yet I have an all-consuming interest in knowing the mind of God. I study quantum physics, and I paint and write. I long for death and for liberation from my flesh.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have no interest in organized religion, yet I have an all-consuming interest in knowing the mind of God. I study quantum physics, and I paint and write. I long for death and for liberation from my flesh.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No I wish, but I have a very angry, unhappy daughter who lives with me. When I try to talk to her about spiritual matters, she gets violent and angry. I believe she has a brain chemical imbalance, but she refuses to get help. I am tired of fighting with her. I want to live with God.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of suffocating was especially scary, but then the feeling of breathing was incredibly euphoric. It was amazing.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've only shared this experience with a few people. I don't think people understand. Only someone who has had a similar experience might understand.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Since I was a small child and this was a traumatic event, I forgot it for a long time. Then it came back to me and I remembered it when I was older. I think I could process the event better at an older age.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     This event has been out of my mind for a long time, however, recently it came to mind and I can't think of anything else. I want to know what is on the other side. I want to break through the surface and come into the light. I am tired of walking the earth in darkness. I want to Go, and Know.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   The experience cannot be reproduced with any chemical or artificial substance.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       None, except that I remember it daily, and long for separation from the flesh. I want to find that peaceful, beatific state.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1laura_r_nde.html