{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lauren_nde_7184.html","mytitle":"Lauren NDE 7184","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lauren NDE 7184  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lauren NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3644 Lauren NDE 7184  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 20 and was living in Algeria, all day I had a sore throat but in the evening, when I went to bed, my throat was sorer and I had difficulty swallowing. I couldn't sleep well, but due to tiredness I succeeded in falling slightly asleep, but waking up often due to pain at deglutition. In the morning, immediately after opening my eyes, I felt sick and I called my mother who was in the next room. Because my throat was so sore, I couldn't shout and she wasn't hearing me, as a result I got up to go see her, because I felt I would lose consciousness. I walked a few steps while still calling her, and suddenly I fell down. 

Then it was suddenly night, I didn't see anything, but heard my mother asking my brothers to take me to the living room, but I didn't feel being lifted by my brother. It was still black and I still didn't see anything, I only heard, that was it. Then I opened my eyes and I saw that my brother had put me down on a carpet in the living room. I saw the worry of my mother and my brothers who were bending over me, and I was listening to my mother who said to my brother, ‘look she is all blue, her face, her hands. Run to get the doctor’. I looked at them and said, ‘No I'm okay’, but I noticed that they didn't hear me, so I sat up and spoke.

‘Mother, I feel good.’ But she didn't see me and suddenly her hand went through my chest to touch something behind me. I turned around and realized that I was sitting on top of me, meaning half of myself was in my body, from buttocks to the feet, and the upper part of me from my head and chest, wasn't in my body anymore. I saw myself, all blue with open eyes as if being dead. I panicked and screamed to my mother ‘I'm there!’ 

I saw a thick rope of a silvery white color coming out between my lungs. What shocked me, at once, was that this rope was going straight from my body towards the window. While looking through the window to see where this rope was leading, I saw three women holding the other end of the rope. 

They were suspended in the air holding the end of the rope and were pulling. They were upside down, their feet towards the sky and their hands and faces towards me, still pulling the rope. I panicked, understanding that if they would pull too strongly I would be dying. I, also, pulled at the rope at my side to prevent it detaching from my torso.  I asked why they were doing that. 

They answered me without talking.  They thought and I heard that they were saying, ‘It's time’. I yelled, ‘No! No! I don't want this, I'm scared, leave me alone, I'm scared I want my mother! Mama! Mama!’ Then they asked me why I didn't want to go, and I answered them, ‘I didn't do anything yet, I'm not married, I have no child, my family needs me, what good to be born if it is to leave now? Leave me alone. I want to stay here. I don't want to leave my family, go away!’  

I pulled the rope even harder towards myself. I was completely panicked at the thought of dying, and at that moment, it was out of the question for me. While pulling at the rope, I looked at them. They were of a certain age about 60-65 years old and dressed normally.  What astonished me was that even though their heads were down towards me.  Logically their skirts should have been hanging down over their heads, but this was not the case.  It was as if there was a wind blowing from below to above, and their clothes remained along the body. I didn't know those persons and they scared me a lot. Then suddenly they let go of the rope.

I, straight away, came violently back into my body, and projecting me backwards. I immediately reintegrated the upper part of my physical body and regained consciousness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1985

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      Other: JE NE SAIS PAS  I don't know, I had difficulty breathing because of a very bad sore throat, I went to sleep and at waking up in the morning I lost consciousness and had this experience.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See above  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I heard the ladies speaking without them saying a word, and I also felt the pain of my relatives seeing me in this condition without them talking about it, yet it was as if their pain was palpable I ‘saw’ their hurt, their worry, I know that they thought I was dying. I was aware of my own death, I knew that I had started to die, and I didn't want to die.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Starting at the moment when I found myself sitting upon me in the living room, when the upper part of my body was outside my physical body, and the bottom part still inside: from this moment until I regained consciousness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the experience you notice all details. I saw the sky behind the women, I noticed their simple clothes, their ages more or less, I saw the pain of worry in the face of my mother, the incomprehension faced with the situation.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear without anybody talking to me, I heard everything, I just needed to focus.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Immense incredible fear, terror, anger, incomprehension, helplessness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I only understood that they left me by my choice; I knew at that moment that in my future I would marry and that I would have children, as this was my argument for not wanting to die.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I didn't want to die; I wanted to live, because I was scared and didn't want to leave my family. Because I was young and wanted to live my life before leaving, otherwise, I considered it ridiculous having lived 20 years for nothing.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   je ne suis pas attaché à une religion particulière

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Less Muslim, belief in a faith has not much importance; the important things are the actions afterwards. The fact to scrupulously respect a religion is to no avail, if we are good, religion is not important. I also learned that the intentions we have for our deeds are very important.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   JE CROIS EN DIEU c'est tout

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Je ne pensais pas qu un autre corps que notre corps physique pouvait exister ni que des personnes (entitées) puissent nous parler ni que le physique des gens pouvait traverser le corps spirituel

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A more intense search about the beyond; due to my dreams I now also know, without being able to explain why, that doing 'good' is essential.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The ladies I saw, I know that they were esoteric beings as they were flying upside down and talked to me by thoughts and that they had the power to decide.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The search for GOD, one cannot live without meeting God, and above all one has to be good, even if one is suffering.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     j'ai compris qu'il fallait, pour vivre, avoir un but

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     je ne sais pas l'expliquer je sais que l'on continue de vivre après la mort puisque l'on existe encore, je sais que j'aurai pu partir avec ses dames et j'aurai continuer de vivre autrement mais je ne voulais pas

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     le libre choix  mène nos vies

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     oui l'amour que je portais au mien m'a empêcher de mourir c'est en pensant à eux à la peine qu'ils auraient éprouvés que je me suis mise en colère en leurs demandant pourquoi elles faisaient cela c'est mon amour pour eux qui m'a sauvé je ne voulais pas le

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. Premonitory dreams, I feel and see things, I saw those ladies again after a surgical intervention that went badly, today I understand who they are and what they want.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain It seems to me that this is not so.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feelings are difficult to describe, I was very scared, and this experience traumatized me for years. All happened at the same time, I realized my state, I saw myself blue. At the same time the feeling of loneliness, of desperation because nobody hears you. I had a feeling of immense sorrow for, maybe, having to leave my family. The feeling of helplessness in front of these women who can make you die; the feeling of depending on their good will concerning my fate, fear, horrible immense fear, incomprehension as it was still too early to leave, I had not done anything yet.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   je n'ai absolument rien oublier de cette expérience ni les détails "matériels" ni l'état moral dans lequel j'étais

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I see things and have premonitory dreams.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The family, it's the family that makes you advance, the importance of family, not to cause pain to one’s family.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my experience to my mother and my brothers as soon as I felt better. They have been very comprehensive and astonished, and didn't doubt me. After that I told it to a doctor who gave me medicines while telling me that all this was nothing else than hallucinations, delirium.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     So very real that the terrifying fear of dying and seeing those women again, was causing at the time a phobia of death, I couldn't sleep alone anymore and I had anxiety attacks for months.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     In retrospect, and because I saw those ladies again during another experience almost 20 years later, I know that it was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   After a surgical intervention that went badly I, again, had an experience of this kind and I saw those women again.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The love I had for my family prevented me from death, it was my thinking of them, at the pain they would feel, that made me angry, asking why they were doing this, it was my love for my family that saved me, I didn't want to leave them.  I don't know how to explain, I know that life continues after death, as one still exists. I know that I could have left with those ladies and would have continued to live differently, but I didn't want to do this. Free choice is ruling our lives. I didn't forget anything at all of this experience, not the 'material' details, nor the mental condition that was within me.  I didn't think that another body than our physical body could exist, nor that people or entities could talk to us, nor that the physical body of people could go through the spiritual body.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lauren_nde_7184.html