{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 6460","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n59_apr_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N59 April 1889","mylang":"de"}
No. LIX.-VOL. IV. APRIL, 18811.
JOURNAL
OF TO
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
N.... Members ud AlHciatee .. . .
MeetiDg of CotmeU •• •• •• ••
A. ProJjeIIed New Ceuaua of BalJaclJlatlollll
OeDeralM~.. .. .. •. .. ..
eu. IlUJI)Illed So the IJterary Committee .. ..
~~r:::=PllYehtc&i Phnom_ :: ::
a-ut AdditlOllll to the Bdmaad GIll'II8)' IJbrary
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
BLACKWELL, DR. ELIZABETH, Rock House, Hastings.
PAGB
.• 49
•• 49
•• IiO
•. 62
.. 55
.. 68
.. 83
.. M
TuCKEY, C. LLOYD, M.D., 14, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, London,W.
WnI'GFIELD, HUGH EDWABD, M.A., Caius College, Cambridge.
ASSOCIATES.
ADAIR, MRS., Glenavon, Cookstown, Co. Tyrone.
AINSLIE, AINSLIE DOUGLAS, 24, Lennox-gardens, Cadogan-square,
London, S.W.
BEWLEY, MISS MARY M., Netherton House, Clapham Common,
London, S.W.
BUTLER, GERARD W., B.A., F.G.S., Blenheim Lodge, Surbiton,
Surrey.
CECIL, LADy·FRANCIS, Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham.
MITCHELL, MRS. C. W., 28, Hyde Park-gate, London, S.W.
MURRAY, SYDNEY J., 70, Cecile Park, Crouch Hill, London, N.
SHEPPARD, W. F., M.A., Trinity Oollege, Oambridge.
SHOVE, MISS EDITH, 25, St. Mark's-crescent, Regent's Park, London,
N.W.
SHEBBURN, HENRY ARTHUR, Savings Bank Department, General Post
Office, London, E.C.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on March 1st, the President in
the chair, the following Members were also present :-Dr. A. T. Myers,
and Messrs. Walter Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore, and H.
Babington Smith.
B
Digitized by Google
50 JO'IJ/T"fUJl of Society for Psychical, Research. [April. 1889.
Mr. Thomas Barkworth, J.P., and Mr. Walter A. Raleigh were
elected as C<H>pted Members of the Council for the current year, in
accordance with Rule 17. Three new Members and 10 new Associa.tes,
whoSe names and addresses are given above, were elected.
A vote of thanks was passed to the Rev. C. L Dodgson for a
present to the Library.
Several matters of routine business were attended to; and the next
Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, April 5th, at 5 p.m.
A PROPOSED NEW CENSUS OF HALLUOINATIONS.
We are sending round with this number of the Joumol some
papers about hallucinations, which we much hope that our Members and
Associates will exert themselves to get filled in.
The subject of sensory hallucinations of Bane and healthy persons,
-their frequency, their cause, and their nature-is one which is of
great interest and import!l.nce to all who are interested in psychology.
But to us members of the Society for Psychical Research-especially to
those who believe that hallucinations are frequently the manifestation
of telepathic communications from one mind to another, and, perhaps,
also of communications from the dead,-the subject has a quite special
importance. This is not only on account of the interest of "veridical "
hallucinations in themsel"es, but because it is absolutely essential to
our investigation to know enough about the frequency of non-veridical
hallucinations to enable us to estimate whether the veridical ones-
those, that is, which correspond with real events,-can be accounted
for by chance coincidence.
It may be thought that the collection made by Mr. Gurney of
5,705 answers on the subject, and discussed in Plw.ntaamB oj the
Living, Vol. II., chapter xiii., show very conclusively that they can-
not. But Mr. Gurney had hoped to make a much larger collection
than this, and always intended to renew the effort at some future time.
Though 5,705 answers are probably enough, notwithstanding some
opinions expressed to the contrary, to furnish an estimate, sufficiently
accurate for our purposes, of the proportion of the number of persons
who have had hallucinations to the number of persons who have not,
it is very far from sufficient for determining the relative frequency of
veridical and non-veridical hallucinations. To answer this last
question, Mr. Gurney had to make assumptions, necessarily very
hypothetical, as to the size of the circle from which our veridical
cases are drawn. The argument based on these assumptions
appears to me valid; since I hold that he rightly assumed this
Digitized by Google
April, 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 51
circle to be the largest that it can reasonably be supposed to
have been; so that the error, if any, in his calculation must
tell in favour of the explanation by accidental coincidence against
which he was arguing. Still I find that those who cannot bring them-
selves to believe in telepathy have endeavoured to justify their position
by supposing that the size of the circle from which our cases have been
drawn has been under-estimated; and though I cannot adopt this view,
I think that we have not at present the means of completely disproving
it. But if we could extend the census to, say, ten times its original
size, we should obtain sufficient data to enable us to dispense with any
disputable assumptions.
Fifty thousand is only the number originally aimed at by Mr.
Gurney, but at that time the work was apparently too novel in
character, the difficulties encountered too unforeseen, to be readily met,
and the misconceptions as to its object too great to admit of its being
very generally undertaken. That the publication of Phantasms of the
Living has done much to famili&.rise many with the importance of
submitting the phenomena to a quantitative test, can hardly be doubted.
It is now confidently hoped that the information thus spread may
make itst-If felt in the large increase of helpers in the future.
There is a special reason for recommencing the work of collecting
now in the fact that there is to be a Congress of Physiological
Psychologists at Paris in August next, which is likely to afford good
opportunity for spreading interest in the subject and getting it widely
taken up both in our own and in other countries. It is because we hope
that others who are interested in the subject from an entirely different
point of view to our own may help in the work that we have left out
all mention of the Society for Psychical Research in the papers which
we are circulating on the su~ject.
At the same time, we think that the success of the undertaking
must in a great measure depend upon the energy with which it is taken
up by our Society. If everyone of the 632 Members and Associates were
to provide only one paper of 25 answers, a collection of 15,300 would
a.t once be obtained-a marked advance on the former 5,705. We
hope, however, that many of our Members and Associates will
endeavour to obtain the co-operation of outsiders in the task of
collecting. The work is one in which all may help who will.
It will be perceived by the question on the accompanying paper for
the entry of answers that the scope of the present inquiry as to
hallucinations is somewhat wider than the former one, but that, on the
other hand, dreams are entirely left out of consideration. A careful
perusal of " Instructions" to collectors on the back of the form will, it
is hoped, serve to make quite clear the rules to be observed in the
E 2
Digitized by Google
52 Journal of &ciety fOT P8ychical Re8earch. [April,l889.
inquiry, and in particular that it is quite as important to collect
" noes II as "yeses." It is, however, needful to add specially for mem-
bers of our Society that cases included in the former census can also
be included in this, as the calculations based on it will be entirely
independent.-ED.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held at theWestminster Town
Hall, on Monday, March 18th, at 8.30 p.m., the President in the chair~
MR. F. W. H. MYERS read a completion of the JateMr. E. Gurney's
paper on "Apparitions Occurring Shortly after Death." This paper will
. appear in the forthcoming Part XIV. of Proceedings. Among the casea
read that which excited most comment was a narrative by General
Baner, C.B., who, on a mountain path at Murree, in India, beheld a.
phantasmal group representing Lieutenant B. (who had been dead for
some months) supported upon a pony by two syces. General Barter
had been barely acquainted with Lieutenant B., but that gentleman
had built the hut which General Barter was occupying, and had
frequently ridden down the mountain path on a pony resembling the
phantom pony seen. There were also details in the phantom's appear-
&nce which corresponded with Lieutenant B.'s appearance when he
died, though not with his appearance when General Barter knew him.
MR. BIDDER, Q.C., commenting on this and on the other cases
cited by Mr. Myers, remarked that there seemed to be an important
difference between apparitions occurring at the timE" of death and those
occurring some time afterwards. Those occurring at death were
mainly personal j they were observed, that ill to say, by friends of the
dying person, on whose minds he might naturally desire to produce an
effect. But the cases which had been read that night were all of them
more or less local in character; that is to say, the apparition was
observed by persons who were strangers, or nearly so, to the deceased,
but in some place in which the deceased had lived or died, and which
might, therefore, have an interest for him which the stranger who
happened to be present in that place could not possess. Points of
contrast like these between different classes of cases daser,"ed careful
consideration. He further doubted the adequacy of the theory
suggested by Mr. Myers that the appearances seen might be a kind of
reflection of a dream of the dead person's, on the ground that the
appearances presented themselves from a point of view external to the
supposed agent.
MR. BARKWORTH said that. though there was undoubtedly a local
element in the cases read, there was also in all of them some degree of
personal connection between the percipient and the supposed agent, and
Digitized by Google
April. 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 53
he thought it probable that this would generally be found to be the
case with appearances shortly after death. An analysis of the 25
!lases given in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on "Phantasms of the Dead "
(Proceedings, Vol. III.) showed that the great majority can be classed
as either (A) penonal, non-local, and recent, or (B) local, non-personal,
and remote; meaning by recent that the death had taken place within
a year, and by remote over a year. He also called attention to the
possible importance of the chill so often experienced in seeing an
a.pparition, as throwing light on the nature of the phenomenon, and
urged that this should be more fully inquired into.
MR. HAYES observed, with reference to the alleged comparative
frequency, in the case of apparitions, of a previous compact between
persons to appear to each other, that the resultant state of expectancy
might be the sole cause of the apparitions, and that in Miss Lister's
case, cited by Mr. Myers (and already given in the Journal, Vol. III.,
p. 292), the subsequent experience of the wife might be accounted for
by thought-transference from Miss Lister.
The REV. DR. KLEIN called attention to the imporlance of the
alleged behaviour of General Barter's dogs, as indicating that the
appearance had an objective character.
MR. R. PEARSALL SMITH said that among the illustrations of the
claim that animals have a perception of these extraordinary alleged
apparitions after death might be mentioned one occurring to a neigh
bour of his own, a prominent barrister at Philadelphia. He had
parted, under painful circumstances of controversy, with a friend who
had later gone to Italy for his health. Afterwards, while camping
out in the wilds of the Adirondacks, one day his horse became
excited and refused to advance when urged. While engaged in the
contest with the horse, the barrister saw before him the apparition of
his friend with blood pouring from his mouth, and in an interval of the
effusion he heard him say, "I have notMng against '!Iou." Soon
afterward he heard that his friend had at that time died during
a discharge of blood from the lungs. Mr. Pearsall Smith was
prevented from procuring a statement directly from the barrister, by the
fact that, after relating it to his friends, the recollection of the incident
had become so painful to him that he declined to converse again on the
subject. He added that it may be easily conceived that the barris1-.er,
under painful recollections of the partinginterview with his friend, and
with the knowledge of his ill-health, might picture his friend forgiving
any supposed injury,and also his dying scene. The extraordinary features
are the coincidence of time and manner between the vision and the
death, with the added circtlmstance of the alarm of the horse previous
to the apparition.
Digitized by Google
54 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1889.
MR. MYERS made a brief reply, of which the following is the
substance: It is certainly true, and an important fact (as Mr. Bidder
and Mr. Barkworth have urged), that the local character of some of
these post-mortem apparitions is decidedly more marked than was the
case with apparitions occurring at the moment of death. But there
were a good many cases in Phantasms of tM Living where a local
element appeared, and Mr. Gurney and I had discussed in slightly
different ways the difficulty which this imports into the explanation of
apparitions as hallucinations telepathically induced by one mind in
another mind. That difficulty is now intensified. In such a case as
General Barter's we are almost compelled to assume that it was the
place rather than the person which deternlined the exercise of energy
-whatever that may have been-on the part of the deceased Lieutenant
B. We can hardly avoid the conjecture that Lieutenant B. would have
been imagining himself on that mountain path, even if General Barter
-a casual acquaintance-had not been there to see him. I
may observe-not as a solution of the difficulty, but rather as an
extension of its range-that many of the cases in Phantasms of tM
Living are both personal and local-that is to say, the decedent
appears to persons in whom he is interested, but also in a place in
which he is interested. Now assuming, for the sake of argument, that
in such instances his real determining interest lay in the place, it is
obvious that as time went on his appearance would become more and
more manifestly local in character. It often happens that the people
whom we have loved leave the places which we have loved; and if we
then appear as ghosts in the old places, it is plain that we are not
appearing for the sake of the new people. Push the date far enough
forward, and our appearances must be local. The" haunting ghost"
has no one left, so to say, to care for; if he appears to revisit any-
thing. it can only be his old home in stranger hands. As regards
the behaviour of General Barter's dogs, I think it was strictly
in accordance with canine precedent. I can remember no case
where a dog-or any animal-is stated tG have been present when a
phantasmal sight or sound occurred, and not to have shown terror.
Perhaps some careful reader may be able to find some exception to this
rule. In any case we must remember that if a dog had been present
wh~n his master saw an apparition, and had shown no alarm, his master
might very likely forget altogether to mention his presence.
MR. H. B. SMITH then read an account of some experiments at
Pesaro, in Italy, seemingly exhibiting thought.transference-the persons
engaged in which he had bad the opportunity of visiting. This paper
will appear in the supplement to the next number of the Proceedings.
Digitized by Google
April,l889.) Journal of Society for Psychicol Research. 55
CASES SUPPLIED TO THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 824 Adpn
The following case has been received from a lady (Sister X., known
to the Rev. A. T. Fryer) who does not wish her name published. She
writes from a religious and charitable institution, of which she is the
head, under date February 7th, 1889.
. It had been the late Miss N.'s habit to payfrequentviaitB here,-always
once a year, and more often twice; therefore I knew her intimately. On the
morning that she died. which event took place in her own house in S- shire,
before 9 a.m.,I W&8 in chapel,and our Communionservice had jnst finished,and
I W&8 in the &cit of saying a thanksgiving prayer,when I W&8 aware ofa rustling
noise, like some person moving on lihe chair next to me. There were three
places, orchairs, vacant,beyond where I W&8 kneeling. Ilookedround, and to
my amazement Miss N. paaaed across me and walked up lihe chapel towws the
altar, and stood there, and then seemed. to vanish. I saw no more. It had a.
strange effect upon my nerves, as I knew her to be ill. The Sisters wondered
why I paused when in the act of saying our thanksgiving aloud. I recovered
myself in a minute and went on. No one else saw what I did. I told them
afterwards; but before the rtt.Btling a senae of someone breathing near me had
been felt and gave me a queer feeling. Of course ,we had prayed for Miss N.,
as being seriously ill, at our celebration.
In a later letter to Mr. Fryer, Sister X. adds, in reply to the question
whether she has ever experienced any other hallucination: "I have had no
similar experience since." Sister X. made no written note of lihe occurrence,
and the Sister to whom she mentioned it at the time cannot now be
rea.ched.
Miss d'A., who was with Miss N. at her death, writes as follows:-
(February 23rd, 1889.)
Miss N. died in this house, which W&8 her own, as near &8 we can say at
8.45 a.m. Sunday, October 29th, 1882. She had not spoken of [the religions
house] at the time of her death, but it may interost you to know that it W&
one of the nurses from [thence] who WIloB attending to her at that timE',and also
that she W&8 very much attached to thE' Sister Superior of that house.
Mrs. M., sister of the decedent, says :-
(February 22t1d, 1889.)
She could not speak, &8 she W&8 paralysed.
We have verified the date of death (October 29th) from the announce-
ment in the Times, for October 31st, 1882. We learn that the thanks-
giving was only read on Sunday mornings at the religious institution,
which 80 far tends to corroborate the coincidence.
Digitized by Google
56 Joumal 0/ Society /0'1' P8ychical Re8earch. [April, 1.889.
L. 825 Adps
From Mr. Henry Green, 13, Fenchurch-avenue, E.C. (through
Mr. E. Westlake, Oaklands, Fordingbridge, Salisbury)•
.April 23rd, 1888.
I had left achool, and parted from my chief achool friend., some time in the
year 1853. About a year later, I heard incidentally that my friend had gone
to sea, but I had not seen him or kept up any communication with him since
I left school During the summer of 1858, when the Indian Mutiny was
drawing to its close, and the great comet of that year was the nightly object
of atklntion, I was staying with my sisters at the Isle of Wight, where I
experienced the dream referred to. I dreamt that I was once more in
the old achool playground, in the centre of which a high pole had been
erected, with a CroBB pole on the top; from the end of this hung a rope with
a hook attached, such, for instance, as one sees depicted frequently in mis-
sionary magazines, when the tortures inflicted on themselves by fanatica are
deacribed, the poor creatures being hooked in the back, and then swung
round in agony. As I looked at this in my dream I became aware that all
those present in the playground were dark and Eastern in their appearance,
and that the victim hooked upon the swing was none other than myoid
friend and schoolfellow, who, as he was rapidly whirled past me, looked at
me in such an earnest and appealing manner as to have left an impreBBion
on my n:.ind which is as fresh to-day as when I awoke from the dream, now
nearly 30 years ago. So vividly was I impreued with the experience of this
night, that on meeting with my sisters at breakfast the next morning, I
related to them what had passed, and said that I felt certain something must
have happened to my friend. Of course I was duly laughed at for my
fancies, but I stuck firmly to the conviction that something untoward had
ocourred. I consequently noted down the date most carefullV: I told my
sisters what I had done, and said to them, "If any person ever saw, and was
most piteously, though dumbly, appealed to by another in a dream, such an
experience was mine last night." The next day, and for "ery many days
and weeks afterwards, I was haunted by this dream. I most carefully
examined every newspaper that I could find, inCluding alwsys the obituary
column, thinking, but without any result, that I might possibly find some
trace of the death or an accident to my friend. One day, however, I think
it must have been at least two months after our return home from the Isle
of Wight, I was sitting in our OfliCfO, where I found a newspaper lyin/C on the
table. I at once took it up, and as had been my habit ever since the dream,
I carefully looked down the obituary column. How shall I attempt to
describe my feelings when I read the announcement of my friend's death, (If
fever, in LIJcknow, on the same date as that of my dream. I have since
learned that when my friend gave up the sea he obtained a commiBBion in
one of Her Majesty's regiments, lind was sent out to India, where he took
part in the relief of Lucknow.
Some years afterwards I had the melancholy satisfaction of visiting his
tomb in the Residency churchyard at Lucknow.
H.O.
Digitized by Google
April, 1889.] Jou'f"TUil of Society for P8ychical Research. 57
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Green writes :-
May 2nd, 1888.
I fear that I can sdd nothing more than I have already sent you, with
regard to my strange dream. I cannot at this distance of time give you the
exact date. At the time of its occurrence I remember noting it down, but I
cannot now find the memorandum. The name of my school friend was
Robert Synge.
HENRY GREEN.
To further inquiries Mr. Green writes:-
BlackwaU-yard, E.
May 11th, 1888.
With this I forward to you as requested
(1) A few lines from my sister to the elfect that I had related my dream
to her, and spoke of my anxiety before seeing the news of my friend's
death.
(2) The memorandum which I undoubtedly made at the time I cannot
find, but you may take it as a fact that such a memorandum was made,
alt.hough I can find no trace of it now, which is not to be wondered at, seeing
that the memo. was made in 1853 Lan obvious mistake for 1858], and we, like
moat other people, have had many changes since that time, and during this
period the memorandum has disappeared.
(3) I am naturally a very sound, not to say a rather heavy sleeper, and do
not, as a rule, dream vividly.
(4) I have never had a.ny dream at all like it, or in any way to be
compared to it.
HENRY GREEN.
The enclosure from Mr. Green's sister is as follows :-
7, Percival-terrace, Brighton.
May 2nd, 1888.
You ask me to Btate whether I can remember your telling me of a
dream you had at the time of the Indian Mutiny, relative to the death of a
friend.
I can distinctly remember the fact of your dreaming that you saw him
dying a painful death, and that the dream so impreued you that you msde a
note of the date. I subsequently saw in the paper that he had been killed on
that very day at Lucknow.
EMMA GREEN.
P.338
ref.
c
Since the publication of this case in Mm. Sidgwick's paper on "The
Evidence for Premonitions," a letterhas been received from Mm. E. Raymond
Barker, in reply to our request that she would tell liS what she remembem
about it. She says, "I am sorry to be unable to give you the information
you ask me for, concerning my sister's • Premonition ' of the death of my
uncle, Carleton Cra.wford. The whole thing has gone from my memory."
The facti therefore rest on Mm. O'Gorman'B unaided memory.
Digitized by Google
58 Journal of Society for- Psychical Research. [April. 1889.
CORRESPONDENCE.
DUPLEX 'U6r8U8 MULTIPLEX PERSONALITY.
To the Edifm of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RBsEARcH.
SIR,-I am anxious to recur to this subject, largely in the hope of
inducing the advocates of Multiplex Personality to give us the grounds
of their belief, which, as far as I know, have never yet been fairly
stated. For instance, in the startling paper under that title which
appeared in the Nineteentll Centu1'11 some time ago there is nothing about
the subject whatever, except a mere hint in one sentence. Otherwise
the cases therein set forth are used to exemplify duplex consciousness,
and nothing more. In the case of Madame B., about whom Mr. Myers
contributed a very interesting paper last year, there is an account,
which is little more than a suggestion, of a third state, but so little
comparatively is said about it that it would surely be rash to conclude
upon the evidence that it was a truly independent condition, and not
merely a phase of one already established.
This seems the proper place for pointing out that alterations of
memory, although an evidence of the most important kind in proof of &
shifting of the basis of consciousness, do not alone necessarily and invari·
ably determine it. Otherwise we should be brought to the reductio ad
ab8urdum of an alteration of the consciousness whenever we remember
the name of an acquaintance which we had previously attempted in
vain to recall. To thoroughly demonstrate the independence of the
two modes of consciouslless, it is necessary to rely, not only upon their
memories, but upon their methods, and their characters, and especially
upon their operations being not only separable, but simultaneous. It
would be possible in this and other ways to throw some doubt, I think,
upon the cases which have been adduced in support of multiplex
personality; for instance, the difference between the third and second
states of IoOuis V. as described by Dr. Myers in the Journal of Mental
Science differ in nothing but the extent of the hemiplegia,while in all the
four last states there is much ingenuity of differentiation shown between
what seem to be mainly varieties of nomenclature. For instance, what
is the difference between .. fair" and "moderate," "quiet" and
"respectable," "boyish" and" childish," &c. 1 I have no wish, how-
ever, to insist upon these minor points, which in Louis V.'s case, at all
events, leave the main position, as I fully acknowledge, unshattered.
My real contention is of a very different character from a mere carping
at details. It is this ;-that granting the existence of a multiplex
personality to have been never so firmly established in those cases which
have been observed, they offer no argument whatever in favour of its
existence in the human race generally. For, to begin with, how many
such cases are there 1 There are Louis, and F6lida, and Madame B.
There are two or three more mentioned by Du Prel (although he,
throughout his argument, maintains the position of a duaJIist). There
may be very likely some haJf dozen more at a liberal estimate. If we
say there are a dozen recorded cases in which the evidence for
multiplex personality cannot be rebutted. we shall be well on the
Digitized by Google
..-...
April, 1889.] Journal of &ciety for Psychical Research. 59
we side. To argue from these that mUltiplex personality is a
common attribute of the huma.n race would, as it seems to me, be as
reasonable as to quote the Siamese twins and the two-headed nightingale
in support of a physical theory of mankind; or the case of the demoniac
of Gadara whose name was "Legion, for we are many" as a type of the
human race. Indeed there is much in these rare and extraordinary
cases which might be held to sustain a theory of possession, but that is
no part of my present purpose.
On the other hand the evidence for a duplex personality is to be
found in every subject of hypnotic experiment; in all the facts eon-
nected with sleep and dreams; a.nd even (as I endeavoured to show in
my paper read before the Society) in the common experiences of our
waking moments.
But not only is the evidence for multiplex personality utterly
inadequate in quantity to sustain the inferences deduced from it, but it
is almost equally assailable in regard to quality. For who are the
subjects of these strange phenomena 1 They are either lunatic,
epileptic, or hysterical patients. Their position is therefore confessedly
pathological and therefore abnormal.
Now to rest an investigation of mental or physical laws upon the
symptoms of a pathological condition, without having previously
mastered the laws of being in a state of health, is to put the cart before
the horse. It is not only unreliable in its results, but positively and
certainly misleading in its conclusions. For the facts of health are
stable and uniform, but the facts of disease vary in every instance, and
moreover can be appreciated only relatively, i.e., in their difference from
the normal standard.
Now the science of inductive psychology is as yet in its infancy.
We need for a long time to come to multiply observations, to enlist
observers, and to accumulate facts. When we have done this to an
extent sufficient to be able to codify the laws which govern the human
consciousness in its normal and healthy condition (and when will that
be 1), it will be time enough to turn our attention to those occasional
aberrant manifestations which will even then, however, be of interest
chiefly to the expert and the alienist. In the meantime the observa-
tion of them is not only useless, but probably harmful, as tending not
only to mislead the inquirer, but to foster an appetite for sensationalism
which it is most important for the Society's work to discourage. What
we need in this, as in every science, is habits of trained observation
which will note seemingly commonplace and trivial incidents for the
sake of the principles which underlie them. It was by the fall of an
apple and not by the crash of worlds that the law of gravitation was
discovered, and who knows that in some equally commonplace incidents
of our daily life may not lie the germs of great discoveries 1
There is still a further objection to the evidence for multiplex
personality in that it is not only deficient in quantity, and bad in
quality, but that its defects are juet those of the kind which most
weaken the conclusions it is made to bear up. Hysteria is not only a
disease, and therefore abnormal, but it is a disease of which one of the
Digitized by Google
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1889.
most prominent symptoms is simulation. It is notorious that hysterical
patients assume the symptoms of other diseases to an extent that will
sometimes mislead a medIcal man. There is often, too, associated with
accesses of hysteria a moral cachexia which shows itself most
frequently in a tendency to falsehood.
In hysterical cases, therefore, we need to be especially on our guard
against deceptions; and if a patient asserts herself to be Queen
Victoria at one time, and Lady Macbeth at another, or to be Leontine
at one time, and Leonore at another, it· really proves nothing more
than that something has got loose in her head.
I have scarcely left space to insist on the importance of the question
of duplex personality; an importance so great as fully to justify my
calling attention to it at such length. For with the modification (or
ll~ay we not say destruction 1) of the old view of uniform personality,
we are confronted at once with the necessity of seeking for the irre-
ducible Ego. Because if it cannot be found, and if the soul is a mere
congeries of different conscious entities, as the body is an organised
conglomerate of protoplasmic cells, the inference will be hard to resist
that death, which dissolves the physical continuity of the one, destroys
also the bond of identity in the other, and that as the body turns
to dust, so will the "soul" to vapour, returning naked into
the womb of force, the common mother of all life. Hoping as I do
that an irreducible Ego is to be found on the hypothesis of a duplex
personality, I would notice some other points of interest connected
Wlth it. It is in harmony with the old tripartite division of man into
body, soul, and spirit. It gives an answer, as unlooked for as it is
complete, to the challenge of the sceptic, " Can three be one 1" It
offers, as I shall perhaps endeavour to show on a future occasion, a
ground of reconciliation for the champions of free will and determinism,
and a line of frontier dividing human from merely animal intelligence.
But I write, of course, only as a student. My first object has been,
as I began by saying, to elicit the views of those who have gone so
much further, and worked so much longer than myself, and if I
succeed .only so far, I shall not have written in vain.
THOllAS BARKWORTH.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-I welcome the opportunity which Mr. Barkworth's letters aft'ord
me for saying a few explanat.ory words on my conception of "Multiplex
Personality." Mr. Barkworth and other critics have argued that any such
conception would be deiltructive either to human responsibility, or to our
hope of existence after death, or to both. The force of their argument
depends on the meaning te be attached to the word "personalitv," on which
it is important that we should all agree. I find that I have given it a narrower
meaning than my critics, for I have expressly intended to confine it to our
terrene self-manifestation-to human beings as we see them here and now-
and thus to leave on one side the question whether or not there is some-
thing in us which is pre-terrene or post-terrene, or both-a soul, in fact,
which survives death. I should prefer to call our persistent being our
Digitized by Google
April,18119.] JO'U/k'nal of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. 61
individuality, rather than our personality; for this distinction of terms haa
become pretty general, and seems necessary for clearneBB. In the present
paper I will (with my critics) &B8ume that such a soul does exist in us; and
will try to show that .. multiplex personality " in no way interferes with
that belief. What I shall say now I conceive that I have in fact said already
in various places; but I will not waste space by trying to prove this. Nor,
on the other hand, will a little repetition need apology in a subject which is
both novel and complicated. The argument, then, which is urged by Mr.
Barkworth and others I.take to be 0.1 follows:-
I. It is a fundamental truth that each of us possesses an "irreducible
Ego" or persistent soul; a principle of continuous conscioul identity.
II. The theory of .. duplex personality" fits in with, and helps to prove,
this great truth, For one of these personalities may be the "animallOul,"
or at least a temporary manifestatIon of ourselves, closely dependent on the
body ; while the other personality may be our .. spirit" ; or at any rate,
BOmething with larger powers (telepathy, clairvoyance, &c.), existing outside
the range of our ordinary consciousneBB; not obviously dependent on our
nervous organisation, and therefore capable of expanding untrammelled
when the body falls awlloY.
III.· The theory of "multiplex personality," on the other hand, assails
the existence of a lOul; for it splits up our psychical being into a number of
co-ordinate personalities, each of them closely dependent on a special state of
the nervous system.
Now, if the reader will look at my definitions of "personality" and
.. individuality," &8 given above, he will see that the sentence in clause II.,
.. the other personality may be our spirit," is not, in my view, correctly
expressed. I should call our "spirit" our individuality; and should say
that in "duplex personality" there was an individuality manifesting itself
in two &8pects-wearing two terrene masks-and that in .. multiplex
personality" the individuality was manifesting itself in several aspects-
wearing more than two terrene masks. But it exists behind the masks &8
truly in the one case &8 in the other. There seems, then, to be little more at
issue than the connotation to be given to the word" personality." And my
only reason for not defining my use of that word more clearly before was my
fear that, to the other claas of opponents-who disbelieve in a soul-the
very definition would appear t" be a kind of begging the question. "You
define personality as a terrene self-manifestation," they would say, "but
how do you know that there is anything that is not terrene to be manifested 1
Your individuality is a mere mystical fancy which you try to bring in by
limiting the m~ of 'personality '-which really expresses all that there
is to expresa."
For the present, however, we are not considering this agnostic set of
objections. We are &B8uming a human lOul, and considering how our notion
of that soul works in with certain views of its earthly self-manifestation.
And here we must resort to metaphor-nay, to more metaphors than one-if
we would picture to ourselves anything 10 abstract and hypothetical. The
excuse for attempting luch a feat lies in the urgent need which the experi-
ments of MM. Janet, Binet, Liegeois, &c., indicate, and which Mr. Bark-
Digitized by Google
62 JO'Urnal of Society for P8ychical Research. [April, 1889.
worth's paper reflects, to get some hint for a crude provisional co-ordination
of those phenomena of consoiousnell and memory whichare every day becom-
ing more difficult, no!; only to understand, but even to record intelligibly.
(See for instance, M. Binet's paper, .. Sur les AlttSrations de la Conscience,"
in the Revue PhilmophiqU6 for February.)
Let us take, then, the metaphor of a man1Vactory, which I have before
employed. Here the 8Oul, the individuality, the .. irreducible Ego," is
represented by the motive p01Der. We need not now speculate whence this
motive power is derived, or whether it is itself invariable in quantity or
direction. AIIume It a simple uniform power, and consider how it is applied
to the millions of looms in our imaginary cerebral factory. A certain
group A of these loolnB are kept working at a certain rate, and in connection
with each other. These form our conscious stream of existence. A certain
other group B are constantly kept at work, but at a slower rate, and repre-
sent our underlying animal life. Group B is usually disconnected with
group A, but any loom in group B, when worked beyond a certain rate,
comes into connection with group A. Groups A and B cOlnpose our normal
self, reduce.! to its simplest expression. Neither group is unchanging.
Depre88ed and exhausted, I eat a good meal. Group A is greatly modified
thereby. Its constituent loolnB change their respective rates of motion, and.
some fresh looms are hitched on, as my memory and intellectual energy
improve with the stimulus to nutrition. This is a difference of mood, but not
yet a difference of personality. Push the stimulus further, and you have
the difference between "Philip drunk and Philip sober,"-a marked
difference of character, with an incipient formation of a secondary
memory. Or s\1ppose the man asleep and dreaming. Fewer looms
are now driven at a high rate, and those that are driven fastest are
linked in new ways. They form a group C, a group 1_ coherent than
A, but perfectly recognisable. .Now let the man be thrown into the hypnotic
trance. Straightway a new group of loolnB, D, is formed, with a new
character and a new memory ; for we bow that it is usual for a hypnotic
subject to forget his trance experiences when he is awake-that is to say,
the looms in group D are not hitched on to the 100lnB ill group A. Nor is the
hypnotic state a homogeneous, definite condition. Leaving aside cases like
Madame B.'s, to which Mr. Barkworth objects as exceptional, and which are
in no way needed by the argument, we have the familiar variations of the
hypnotic condition-the" three stages" of Charcot, or tht> "light alld deep"
state on which Mr. Gurney made so many experiments &8 to alternation of
memory. From these experiments it was seen that in an ordinsry healthy
subject two new chains of memory can easily be created, each distinct from
the other, and from the waking memory. It is easy, that is to say, to connect
the looms in a new group, E, different from group D, which W&8 the firat
result of our hypnotiaation.
I need hardly push the enumeration of these groups further. What name
we give to the psychical modifications which in this metaphor they represent
is a subordinate question, though still an important one. or courae, the groups
are not wholly distinct from one another; the patterns which they weave
resemble each other more or 1811. It is a question of degree. When the
Digitized by Google
April,l889.] Jotwnal of Society fm' Psychical Research. 63
induced difference is slight, we call it an alteration of mood; but it is some-
times so great-character and memory are so profoundly affected-that it
seemstQ me (as to Ribot, &c., before me) to deserve the name of an altera-
tion of persanality. And. still holding to our ~uIllption of an irreducible
Ego behind all these manifestations-a force which works continuously,though
now through one concatenation of looms, now through another-we may
obviously suppose this force to be as great as we please, for the groups of
looms through which it works need not exhaust it, and it may, for aught we
know, be doing other work outside the manufactory.
And this conception is so far from being a fantastic or morbid one, that it
it will be seen on reflection to be a mere extension and generaliaation of con-
ceptions to which we are led by the commonest phenomena of life. The
changes from infancy to manhood, from manhood to senility, from vigilance
to dream, from sobriety to intoxication, from sanity to insanity-all these
indicate that if there be an irreducible Ego persisting throughout, this Ego at
any rate finds at different moments very different channels or capacities of
self-manifestation. My metaphur of the manufactory and the looms would hold
good even of these familiar and ordinary changes; the novelty lies only or
mainly in the more rapid succession of changes which is now observed to be
possible, and the more conspicuous unhitching and re-hitching of the links
of memory. We all know that the dying man will sometimes speak in the
tongue which he learnt in infancy, but has forgotten in adult life. Why
should we shrink from multiplying such interruptio:lS and such rapproche-
ments, or fear that the Ego behind the chequered lives of a Felida or a
Leonie has lost by temporary diversification its pre-exilting unity 1
I trust that these explanations-which lack of space must here curtail-
may meet Mr. Barkwort.h's main objection. I cannot hold out any prospect uf
retreat from my position for lack of evidence ; for the evidence in France is
growing monthly, quite beyond my power to reproduce it for English
readers. The Re11!te Philosophique contains many of the papers to which 1
refer; and ProfessorJanet, of Havre, has a considerable book in preparation.
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
THE ETHER AND PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA.
Lieut.-Colonel A. T. Fraser, R.E., Associate of the Society for
Psychical Research, has communicated to the Society a paper in which
he suggests that if correct ideas can be obtained of the etherial medium
which fills space, the result will be to place psychical phenomena on a
sounder, because more tangible footing.
He argues that if the ether be, as is supposed, an incompressible
solid, "we can personally only pass freely through it in all directions,
by a momentary exchange of atoms of matter of which our bodies and
clothes are composed with the atoms of the etherial medium." And he
adds that "the admission that all the objects which we see move in the
ether by exchange of their atoms at every instant of their progress in
this solid and are made up of the same material identically as itself,
64 Journal of Society f01' Psychical Research. [April, 188~.
renders credible the disappearance even of a person and their re-
apparition at a distance away by showing how it can physically be
accounted for."
The physical speculation appears to me to be of somewhat too
hypothetica.l a character to be suitable for publication in the Journal
or Proceedings of our Society; but those Members and Associates who
are interested in the subject can obtain Colonel Fraser's manuscript
for perusal on application to the Assistant-Secretary, at the rooms of
the Society, 19, Buckingham-street; Adelphi, W.C.-[ED.]
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
(.Recent Additions cOfI.tinued.)
PREYER (Prof. W.) Die Kat&lepsie und der thierische Hyp-
notismus (with illustrations) .......................................... Jena, 1878
- - - Telepathie und Geisterseherei in England. (Deutsche Rund-
schau. Jan., 1886, p. 30) ....................................... Berlin, 1886
PRITZL (Dr. Eduard) Eine Geburt in Hypnoae. (Wiener Med.
Wock. Nov. 7th, 1885, p.1366) ........................... Vienna, 1885
PROPHEZEIHUNGEN (Eine Zuaammenstellung der wichtigsten aua alter
und neuer Zeit) .................................... ..............Regensburg, 1884
REICHENBACH (Freiherr von) Wer ist aensitiv, wer nicht 1 Vienna, 1856
SALLIS (Joh. G.) Der Hypnotismua in der Padagogik ............Berlin, 1888
SZAPARY (Franz Graf von) Ein Wort tiber Animaliachen l\lagnetiamus,
Leipzig, 1840
SCHWARTZKOPFF (Dr. Paul) Das Leben im Traum ...............Leipzig, 1887
SEHERIN (Die neue) Offenbarungen, Gesichte und Weissagungen einer
23-jahrigen Jungfrau in ihrem in Gott entziickten Zustii.nde Groz, 1860
SENATOR (H.) Eine Bericht tiber die Hypnotiachen Ver8uche des
Herm Prof. Heidenhain. (Berliner !nino Wach., No. 19, p. 277,
1880) .................................................................. Be,Un, 1880
SIEGISMUND (Karl) Va.demecum der geaammten Litteratur tiber
Occultiamu8 ............•....•............•........•........••.......•.....Berlin, 1888
STAY (Jones Barton) Der Seelen Telegraph. Aus dem Englischen von
J.S. (6th edit.).............................:.............................. Leipzig, N.D.
STEINBRUGGE (Prof. Dr. H.) Ueber secundare Sinnesempfindungen
Wiesbaden, 1887
STELZNER (Alfred) Sympathie und Sympathie-mittel. (Ueber Land
und Meer, No. 27, 1885, p. 598) .......................................... 1885
STRAUSS (David Friedrich) Justinus Kemer...........................BOfI.'Il., 1876
THOMASSEN (Dr. J. H.) Geschichte und System der Natur (5th
edit.) .....................................................................Cologtle, 1885
TIMMLER (Dr. Julius Eduard) Die Heilkraft des Lebens-magnetismus
und dessen Beweiskraft ftir dieUnsterblichkeit der Seele.(4th edit.)
Altenburg, 1883
VAll (Adelina Freihm von) Visionen im Wasaerglasse.........B'Udapest, 1877
WALTHER (E.) Ein merkwiirdiger .Traum. (" Daheim," No. 13, 1880) 1880
WOLLNY (Dr. F.) Ueber Telepathic .................................Leipzig, 1888
- - - Eingabe und Addresse (Telepathische)..................Leipzig, 1888
Digitized by Google
