{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lauren_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Lauren H NDE 3885","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lauren H NDE 3885  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lauren H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1836 Lauren H NDE 3885  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember once I came to from having been unconscious that I had this feeling, this urgent need to let go.

I slipped back into an unconscious state and I remember seeing this VERY bright, yet not blinding light. I had the sensation of floating upward through darkness and past shadows that had no form. Then as I continued upward, I got to a point where I couldn't go any closer to the light - my loved ones were there and the kept telling me to go back, that it wasn't my time yet.  I wanted to stay. I felt love, peace, as if I were home.

Then I felt like I made a decision. At that very moment I made my mind up, I was 'sucked' backwards into life. Back onto Earth. I woke up inside an ambulance.

I do remember prior to waking hearing a man say, 'We lost her'. Then, when I came back, 'She's okay.'

After many years, I kept my mouth shut. Afraid no one would believe me. And then I started having premonitions. Déjà vu. Very intense feelings of intuition. I am no longer afraid of death. I know now in my soul that there is so much more after life. I feel that once I have learned what it is I am supposed to learn, or a task that I must complete, that I will be rewarded with a life after death!

Thank you for reading this!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 22,1994'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Severe head trauma, punctured lung, fractured neck and back, along with other fractures, and a broken pelvis. I was in shock and my inner core temperature was ninety-one degrees.  When the emergency medical service found me, I was considered 'Dead on Arrival'.  I was resuscitated on site and was considered to be at risk of dying on the way to the trauma unit.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was nearest to the light and listening to my loved ones - and in the silence.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt like I was there for hours.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could look at the light and not be blinded by it. The colors were so vivid and so beautiful. No words can explain the depth and clarity.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It sounded as if I were in a tunnel. And my loved ones were singing to me rather than speaking.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Not really passed, but more like upward transition. No feeling of having exited.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     On the side of tunnel, and at the light. Yes, I knew them as my grandfather and my aunt Robin and others. To go back, no! It's not your time yet - and then I was asked to make a decision. And once I made it - it was not going to change.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Very luminous, very bright, yet not blinding.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy, safe, home, I arrived, accepted, peaceful, content.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not really saw but felt. I learned that I no longer have to fear dying, that I am not of my body, and that there is Life after death.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'raised with too many religious beliefs, so at the time I was very agnostic'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am now spiritual and non-denominational.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'spiritual, yet non-denomination'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am now spiritual and non-denominational.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just the knowing that everything was/is going to be okay.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes People think I'm weird, clairvoyant. They say I look through them instead of at them.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Found it very difficult to describe the light, how my loved ones 'spoke' to me, and the feelings I felt of ease and feeling like I was finally 'home'. Those that I would try to tell about my experience would call me crazy or just shrug it off.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Feel very intuitive - sense people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes. Having my loved ones give me the feeling that I was being looked over. Loved. Missed. Yet I'd see them again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Ten or more years - looked at me like I was crazy. No.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Can't explain.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know it happened because I accept it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lauren_h_nde.html