{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1laura_nde_7763.html","mytitle":"Laura NDE 7763","mylang":"de"}
          	        Laura NDE 7763  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Laura NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4009 Laura NDE 7763  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had surgery on my belly while under general anesthesia in a hospital.  When waking up, I was constantly vomiting. Then I remember that I suddenly found myself like being isolated in my head, as if being in a fish bowl. I saw the silhouettes of the nurses and it was impossible for me to communicate. 

Then I saw both, the nurses and the doctors, clearly while their faces had a panicked look.  I had a view on the heart monitor from above.  I heard each of the staff's comments as they also saw the  curves on the monitor. I heard that they were talking about me like I was dead.  They said things like, 'Oh she must have been beautiful this woman, with her curly hair.  The worst is that we will have to inform the elderly man.  Do you think it's her husband?' When one replied, 'No, he is too old.  He must be her father and the young man by his side, must be his son,' I became aware that my life was at risk.  I isolated myself and as I'm a believer, I constantly prayed in my head fishbowl, saying that I wanted to live. I asked for help in my prayers with one of my friends who had died recently.  I didn't see the tunnel nor the light. I think that my prayers protected me. 

When I woke up, the medical personnel were relieved.  They told me that they never saw something like this before.  Seen my condition, I managed everything well and was in a state of 'Olympic' calm. I effectively had serious heart problems and found myself 15 days in intensive care services. In the following years, I had no fear of death at all anymore.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related While under general anesthesia.      Life threatening event, but not clinical death   General anesthesia due to a surgery on the belly, while I actually was not operable.  I had insufficient potassium level and anemia, which is what caused the cardiac problems.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  See Narrative  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I had an impression of imminent danger, especially when hearing them talking about me in the imperfect, and was terrorized at the idea of not being able to communicate.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Lucidity, but an impossibility to communicate.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Everything happened quickly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Initially, vague, then a very clear vision

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard all the comments at the same time, very fine hearing, at the time of the experience.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     The void, a bowl, as if I was a fish, but who at the same time saw and heard everything, even what happened at a distance.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Terribly anxious

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   It was completely out of the question to stay, as I had a child to raise and I love life.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I wasn't prepared for this challenge and I was scared, but I think that it was only the beginning of an NDE, which was blocked by my prayers and my determination to stay alive.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm more connected.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The development of psychic faculties since the experience

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     Not at the moment, but subsequently

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Development of psychic faculties, inspired writing, card reading, communications by messages and very receptive; also an encounter with a spirit; I am setting barriers, as this is a world that I refuse to explore, but it is like a door that opened, knowing that I previously already had a sensitivity. But I also have a cancer....

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  It is an experience that will be engraved in my memory forever.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Development of mediumship. If I ask a question, I get a reply within the following hours. My requests are answered but not in the way I would want; if people died in violent death, I get feelings and shivers, what would lead to, I suppose, that the soul survives, even if the events happen at a distance (example: an air crash announced on TV).

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was especially when I was hovering over the heart monitor and heard everything.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not immediately, but much later, but nothing more, knowing that I'm a woman of character having my feet well on earth, and the opinion of others doesn't matter to me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Sensation of having escaped a danger, but for a surplus, an experience that is rather enriching

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     A spiritual experience, but also the feeling that we are here only on a temporary basis

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Now fearing anesthesia

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Your questions are sometimes difficult to decipher and they should be more basic and fluid to bring about answers that are less reflected but more spontaneous.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1laura_nde_7763.html