{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1laura_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Laura J NDE 4236","mylang":"de"}
          	        Laura J NDE 4236  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Laura J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2069 Laura J NDE 4236  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was six years old in 1967, very bright, and had to have my tonsils out because of constant infections. In the hospital, I was wheeled in a crib with my leg tied to the rail so I would not fall. When I went into the very big surgery room (I was very small, so it was very big), I was laid on a flat-looking bed, and the ceiling had lights coming down from it. A woman, who was not a nurse, was very sweet and assisted me. She asked if I wanted some lipstick on, which I think back then they put Vaseline on a person's lips that are going to have surgery. She put a mask over my mouth and nose after the doctor came in, who was a man with dark hair. I remember falling asleep.  Then I looked down and saw myself on the surgery bed. The doctors and nurse were frantically doing something to me. I thought that was very strange and was very curious.

I remember seeing me as being very small in a white gown and they were doing something to my mouth. I did not know what they were doing. I was distracted by something over my right shoulder, it was warm, and I wanted to go there. It was like sunshine (I really remember the warmth, but a comfortable warmth-like comforting warmth). So I went there and remember people, but in a way that I knew that they were there and smiling and glad I was there. I did not really know these people (feel as though they were relatives - I have seen photographs, especially my grandmother who died when my mother was six months old in a car accident), and I felt very, calm and comforted. Then someone was holding me by the hand telling me I have to go back. The person was very close to my body and I knew it was a man, and he was very kind. I was watching my body and what they were doing, and I kept saying I did not want to go, but he said I had to, and I said okay because I somehow knew that it was connected to my mother (I did not know her mother had died when she was a baby - I was only six).

I woke up in my body and my throat hurt. My mother told me later on in life that I had stopped breathing from the surgery for about ten minutes. I do not know if I ever told her about my experience, but she said I was different after almost dying. Interesting enough, I am exceptionally different from the rest of my family. I feel the deepest connection and closeness to God and my experience even as a child, and have been the only one to continually practice my faith (I am Jewish), even in the darkest times of my life, and there have been many, have had faith in God. I am not afraid of death at all, and feel connected to people who are knowingly going to die in the form of a celebration, not sorrow, except for my grandmother's death, because I knew where she was going and very much wanted to go with her.

I am also the only one in my immediate family who always felt empathy, even as a small child, for the people considered the underdogs in life, and became a Special Education teacher as my contribution to the world. I also have always donated my money to charities and given away my stuff, even as a child, to those who need it without expecting anything in return. I just knew it was right and I was put in my body to do something in life. I knew not to abused alcohol or drugs, although my siblings have. Although my family was and still is prejudiced against African-American's and anyone different, I never was and had many friend of all types. I directly, for some reason, attribute this directly to my near-death experience, although I do not know why. I am almost fifty years old, and still remember everything as though it had just happened in detail. I also have only told a few people of this experience, because most just think I am crazy, so I do not talk about it, but consider it a very important part of my life that I carry with me continually.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I do not know, I was very young and am not sure what the question means. Maybe when I was watching my body before and after the near-death experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I think so. I explained everything in my experience in my story. I do not know exactly where I went since I have never been there since. Again, maybe children's experiences are treated differently by whoever or whatever was involved in my experience, as not to frighten them.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Don't remember, but I did not think so.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not believe so, because I heard normally, but it did not really seem as though people were talking words but probably were, except for the man, but I felt that the people were welcoming and I knew what was happening the whole time and was happy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was something warm and there was a beginning and an end to it, but I do not know if it was specifically a tunnel, at least that is not what it felt like. Maybe children are different.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Explained in my experience above.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   There was a lot of light, but not 'a' light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I do not know what is meant by this questions, but I explained it all in my experience above.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was the most wonderful feeling and I have strived to feel that again in life, but nothing compares to it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had not had much of a life at six to review. I also sensed their presence. There were many people, or what I thought were people, since they were deceased.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Only six. In question 33, I did not want to come back to my body, so I guess it was involuntary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Not sure, I was only 6.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Even though I was very young, I had a deep relationship with God and would pray and felt safe. This was not the custom of my family.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Jewish

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Even though I was very young, I had a deep relationship with God and would pray and felt safe. This was not the custom of my family.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I do not know exactly, but I always had a good sense of right and wrong and what God wanted me to be like. I was not raised like that, and my siblings did not turn out like that.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was very young, however, I am certain I would have accepted my families strange beliefs and values if I had not had this experience. I also knew truth and was able to 'read' people easily.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel I have but do not talk about it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All was significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I do not know about the time before I told someone or who it was, but the few I have told I saw a reaction of uncertainty about whether I was telling the truth or not, because who actually goes around telling people about their experience? Also, it was so personal; I did not want it tainted at all by others' insensitivity.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I was only six.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Definitely real. As a small child, it was more acceptable because I, as well as other small children, do not know any other way and have not been exposed to others' views or experiences.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Definitely real, because it was.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wonder what type of person I would have been if I had not had this experience as a very young child. I found it a positive experience for preparing me for a world that can be very harsh.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1laura_j_nde.html