{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lars_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Lars N NDE 5387","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lars N NDE 5387  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lars N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2905 Lars N NDE 5387  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As a teenager, I often spent time with my friends at a public outdoor pool. Naturally, we were thinking about crazy things to do and have fun with. One day, one of us had an idea. Who originally conceived of it, I don’t remember. The idea itself was simple. You had to cross your arms across your chest and another person grabbed both hands from behind, thereby providing resistance.  Then you had to hold your breath for 5-10 seconds, and a third person pushed against your chest.  This inevitably led to unconsciousness.  Since every participant quickly regained consciousness, I decided to try it.

I don’t know what or how it happened. Suddenly I was above the pool at the height of the 10 meter (30 feet) dive board, although I was far away from the board, in mid-air. In this moment, I felt a single feeling best described as a feeling of complete contentment and joy. The best feeling I have experienced in my entire life. I looked around and saw the leaves swaying in the wind, birds were flying through the air, and I saw the sky above and the many people below.

I noticed there were some people that were kneeling around a person on the ground.  That person on the ground was me. As strangely as it may sound, I had no association with that body even though I recognized it as mine.  I did not feel bad or fearful.  I watched my brother with great interest, because he was smacking my face repeatedly.  Before I realized what happened, I opened my eyes and was looking into the sun.  I knew I was lying on the ground and feelings arose, especially pain from the being smacked in the face. I was surprised how fast my perspective had changed as it had gone from looking down from above to looking up from the ground.

Confused by the experience but still filled with a sublime feeling I spoke to my worried brother.  He was relieved that I had come around. He estimated that I had been unconscious for only a few minutes.  I myself thought it had been even briefer. Since neither, my brother nor my two best friends had any answers regarding my experience I never spoke of it again.  In addition, my experience did not match those of others because those usually involve making contact with beings or something like that.  Furthermore, I view this as a very personal experience and some people might think of it as mental weakness.  One may think of me as they wish, I myself am looking forward to continue this experience and to once again experience that wonderful feeling.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    'Kindliches Spiel die Luft anzuhalten und von anderen einen anhaltenden Druck auf die Brust zu erhalten, mit dem Ziel für kurze Zeit Ohnmächtig zu werden. Hat funktioniert.'  Other Keine klinische Aufnahme/Feststellung.  We were playing a childish game where you had to hold your breath while another person pushed your chest with the goal to briefly lose consciousness.  It worked.  I do not know whether this causes a life-threatening situation or not.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Unfortunately, today I am unable to say for sure but I think there was no difference in the perception of the people or leaves.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The precise explanation of the feeling.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately after I shared it with my brother and my two best friends.  Their reactions differed. My brother and one of my friends took a very rational approach and blamed it on oxygen deprivation or something like that.  My other friend had had some paranormal experiences, which he subsequently shared with me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Everything I experienced happened the way I saw it, even events that I wouldn’t have been able to perceive lying on the ground.  I have no doubt about the reality of the experience, and it was no different from any other experienced reality.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I do not doubt nor have I ever doubted that the experience was real; it was no different than any other experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This was the only experience of this kind I ever had.  Not long ago, however, I saw a boy standing beside the road in front of a memorial cross and looking at me, but when I looked into the rearview mirror after just passing him, he had vanished.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lars_n_nde.html