{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lars_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Lars \u00d6 NDE 661","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lars Ö NDE 661  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Lars Ö NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						205  Lars Ö NDE  661  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I have a problem and my doctors don't know what it is - my heart races. I've had problems since 1984 with recurring attacks. Sometimes I get totally knocked out. In the beginning, I only had a few attacks. Recently they've become more frequent. The problem is that when the heart slows down and becomes normal, it apparently stops for a while. I've been very deep when it happened the first time, lost part of the memory, but the other time has burned into my memory forever.


I got a kind of floating feeling, like if you were about to fly away. I could see myself from the outside, and got a weird feeling of a presence, like I wasn't alone - like someone took me by the hand and led me to the spiral or tunnel where I'd never been before. Suddenly I was there, and then I wasn't in control of my life anymore. Rather, there was something else that I don't know what it is.  Suddenly, I was in the tunnel and that state was horrible, no matter how hard you try to explain it you can't. It wasn't a question of wanting it or not, you just went straight down into it (the tunnel). It wasn't round, but had jagged segments in several layers that surrounded you on all sides. Zigzag shaped segments, or something like that, bathed in the same intensive light. It was like black in between or something, don't know if it was an empty space there.


I got very dizzy, like everything was spinning around, and at the same time I had a feeling like I was standing still. I don't know how long it lasted, but it was long and the feeling was awful and painful. I can't describe the torment.  It wasn't of this world. There was a visual impression I got I'll never forget as long as I live - you can describe the tunnel like you were stuck, you can't move, and at the same time it's like you're stretched out in some way. I don't know how.


Although you don't have your normal feelings, you apparently have soul feelings, but I still can't talk about the emotional part, it still hurts when I think about it. When you come out of the spiral on the other side, it's dark with lots of white dots that move towards you. It feels like you're hurled outwards at a high speed - don't know how far I got out there - but it lasted for a long time. Then I started thinking, if I go on I'll be stuck here, and then I woke up lying on the floor.


I don't know if it was a dream or reality. Since then I've acquired a new ability, I can see plants and trees and also clouds in the sky (psychically), I've seen people and animals. I could never do that before. Precognitive ability comes more often now than before; sometimes, I can see three or five weeks ahead, none of it has been wrong yet, but I can't control it. When I see trees, they are of supernatural beauty, and when they've got snow on them all the ice crystals have the flat side turned towards you, you can't see anything at the edges and the trees don't seem to have roots. It can't be dreams.


The strange thing is I was standing in a fir forest and felt the smell of firs (during the experience), but I still don't remember seeing anything before or after the tunnel, and still I could smell firs at home for a long time afterwards. I've had three experiences like that afterwards, but now I know for sure I've been on another level than this one. Everything I see is real, you can't explain it in any other way than that there is something after (death). I'm totally sure of it. You can't explain it away; you can't see something that's never happened before. My outlook on life has changed completely; I've become humble and emotional and open after these experiences.


I'm psychic, have always seen things which are difficult to explain, but at the same time I thought they were natural. I have often seen a mountain or alp with the three lights, this has been both a frightening and wonderful experience, the mountain has a strong light in the middle and on the left side a small light and a similar one on the right side.


On the right side, between the middle and the right light, there is a cloud or whatever it is, you can't say it's black or grey, it's hard to explain what it's like. It's like bubbly at the edges all around, and at the same time it radiates both good and evil. If you think good thoughts, then goodness and peace radiate and if you don't think right, a beast appears in the middle light. The middle light is bigger and the light is extremely intensive, it's either white or bluish-white: It's hard to explain, an unnatural light.


From the light, horizontally, there is a two-armed spiral emerging, not compressed, but expanded like a DNA spiral. It is funnel shaped, narrow by the light and broader further out, and it slowly rotates around clockwise with a humming sound, a very low-frequency sound, which gives an uncomfortable feeling of aversion, and there's no connection to the ground between whatever it is and the spiral, and it's like a fog or haze. This is how far I've got with my usual psychic ability. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    7/14/2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Illness  Probably something wrong with heart condition   I´ve been psychic since birthProbably cardiac arrest and partial loss of memory afterwards, now I have some problems with writing and spelling and the timing of it.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had a body but at the same time not, it's hard to explain, it's like a different person you never had contact with before, like a floating state.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I had the stereo on but didn't hear anything, didn't feel anything but wasn't unconscious, everything was shut off except for vision, I remember I felt like falling.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The time between when I left the body and before I got to the tunnel was brief, but the time I spent in the tunnel was long, and in the dark area it was long, but I didn't get all the way to the end.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Beside the tunnel I heard a very low-frequency buzzing sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     There were sounds coming from the tunnel, below it, but not within the tunnel itself. In the tunnel were zigzag shaped segments in several layers, like jagged rings with a space between them, but I'm not sure if there was only light in the rings or if there were dark bands, in between the rings there was some space, but the length of it seemed long, if you can describe length at all in that state of consciousness.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     In the dark area I felt a presence.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   There was a strong light at the end of the tunnel, but it seemed to be a long distance away, between the light and the tunnel, there was like a veil after the light, dark, and like white dots rushing towards you.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     In the previous experiences I was on other levels, I have visited like three levels, in the psychic part I have three levels and I've been there, but during the experience itself I only got to the dark area with the white dots, the first level is at the tunnel, the second is the white veil, and the third is in the dark area. After the dark area there are plants and animals, but I haven't seen people that I could say come from there.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Calm and the same feelings as when you feel love, a certain elation. In the tunnel, painful feelings, like when you've done something wrong and that someone or something was holding your hand.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     That life is fragile and shouldn't be wasted and that you should care for it and cherish it. I got good knowledge in being able to see the other side and not be afraid of death, and a knowledge that it's part of our existence.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Didn't hear any voices, but got the feeling that there was something about following the chosen path and being open, and then I got some different knowledge than before, my psychic ability got more developed than it was before, now I have a different way of looking at life, care for everything living that exists around us and I'm afraid to hurt anyone or anything that has to do with life.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     Yes, that my girlfriend's daughter would die, and then there were other things that I didn't understand, the meaning of it being about my own life, that I should live the life I had left.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     In the dark area with the light dots there was like a boundary of some sort, there was something that said if I went further on, I wouldn't be able to go back anymore, before that I felt a hand holding my hand, but when I had to go back it let go - there must have been something there.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was in the dark area, don't know if I got a choice or if it just happened, had the feeling that I wanted to stay and not go back, there was an absolute calm, a sort of love, not the kind you have in ordinary life, it was complete.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Got faith that there is something after this, that life isn't one-sided but elastic and that it doesn't have anything to do with what you believe. My beliefs have changed, I don't believe in God anymore, I just look more at nature and that it's nature that runs our lives, and that everything is alive.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The tunnel.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Got the ability to move freely around without having to go through the tunnel, sometimes get visions, can see shadowlike beings, animals and nature. I've always been psychic and had paranormal experiences, but not while being awake, but now I do, but I still can't control it. Now I can also express love and I became more open towards other people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The tunnel was awful and the nicest part was in the dark area.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Have tried to explain what happened, but people doubt it, but at the same time they can ask what happened and they say I'm totally changed, I'm not the same person anymore and that makes people suspicious.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      To explain the entrance to the tunnel and the experience itself in the tunnel, what it looks like inside and the light in it, and if the tunnel is vertical or horizontal.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lars_o_nde.html