{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1latimer_b_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Latimer B Possible NDE 7831","mylang":"de"}
          	        Latimer B Possible NDE 7831  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Latimer B Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			4047 Latimer B Possible NDE 7831  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was on the couch at a friend's house and high on heroin.  I noticed that my body was lying on the floor and I was standing on top of me.

Then I entered a dark place where this green baboon approached me from the darkness. I knew instantly that this Being was Thoth. I had learned a little about Thoth in a philosophy class at university. Thoth was holding a set of gold scales. I don't recall if there was anything on the scales.

My attention was then drawn to another Being in the room.  He looked like one of those bird-headed Egyptian, humanoid figures. I later identified this Being as Osiris from looking at pictures in books.  The figure Osiris spoke in a voice that was simultaneously, the most high pitched and the most low pitched sound I have ever heard. I could not understand his words.

The next thing I remember was seeing a silhouetted figure of an indigenous Australian warrior. I could not see his face but only the outline of his figure; his thick hair had curled locks like many of the older bush-men have.

I don't remember coming back to reality, but I was given CPR for about half an hour I was told later.  I was revived by an indigenous Australian named David. The indigenous warrior figure did not look like David, who has short cropped hair and was of a smaller stature.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/12/2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drug or medication overdose.  CPR given.     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Heroin overdose

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When it started, I was standing on myself, looking down at myself lying on the floor.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Without prior learning about the Egyptian 'procession of the dead', I knew exactly what Thoth meant to do with those scales.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw Thoth coming up to me, I knew who he was right away. I don't think he spoke a word, just made gestures with his hands.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Contrast was at an extreme. Bright things were brighter than daylight, but dark things were darker than black.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    When the being I have since labeled 'Osiris' spoke, I could hear well outside the range of human hearing. His voice seemed to stretch from lower than 30Hz to well above my normal 16000Hz hearing range limit.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I do not recall passing through a tunnel, but there are gaps in my memory of the event and I do think it could have happened.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It wasn't a light source or a 'go into the light' thing. It was like smoke or mist, a light with density.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It was dark; it was kind of like a court room. There was smoke that was like light.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, awe, confusion

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know that Christianity is one big lie told to keep people away from spiritual enlightenment. I only suspected that before.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Thoth, but I don't remember him speaking.  A bird-headed humanoid, I now consider to be Osiris, and as mentioned, his voice had a huge range.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   As mentioned Thoth and what I now consider to be Osiris from Egyptian mythology. It was very much like the Egyptian procession of the dead which I learned of a few years later.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I have no idea what Osiris was saying to me, but I expect it to have had some information of value.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I refuse to elaborate.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Gods. Plural.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I refuse to elaborate.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I refuse to elaborate.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     The soul is immortal.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I refuse to elaborate.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I dont have inter-personal relationships anymore. Only professional relationships.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Mainly because memory of the event is not clear.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  My memory of that time is hazy at best, but this event is much clearer than what happened in my life around that time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was all especially significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was five years before I told anyone. I tried to tell a friend, who was a serious academic, about this and he just didn't get it. He understood my words, but the concepts and lessons were beyond human comprehension. I decided then not to tell any other mortals, some things are not to be shared. The second person I told was a stranger I met last night. I didn't go into every detail I told my friend, but I shared with him some of the information conveyed here.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Other friends, who had experiences when overdosing, have told stories of themselves floating around an ambulance above them or meeting their guardian angel. I was aware they existed before I had my own.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was given a second chance at life to be the person I needed to be.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is more real than what most people call the ΓÇÿreal world'.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Last year, I was hearing a voice (no I am not schizophrenic, and I do have that in writing from a qualified psychiatrist) that was similarly inaudible to how Osiris spoke. I am not sure this voice was from Osiris, but it was similar. The voice stopped after a few months.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1latimer_b_possible_nde.html