{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1larry_nde.html","mytitle":"Larry NDE 93","mylang":"de"}
          	        Larry NDE 93  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Larry NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						10047  Larry NDE  93  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 November 28, 2001


Interviewed by Loni Parrott


NDE from an excellent interview by Loni Parrott, from the Friends of IANDS (FOI) group in Iowa City Iowa (contact Loni for further information).  Remarkable NDE after-effects.  Other FOI leaders are encouraged to share NDE accounts with NDERF, subject, of course, to appropriate confidentiality concerns.


Larry is a married man.  He is retired, and his religious preference is protestant.


Q.  Give me a brief description of the circumstances of your near-death experience.


A.  It was about 5 years ago, in August, about 5:30 in the morning on highway 151.  I was driving the car, it’s early morning, it’s foggy.  I’m taking my wife, Kathy, to work at her job in (deleted).  We lived in (deleted).  It’s a distance of 7 miles.  All of a sudden, I didn’t feel right.  I pulled over on the gravel side, I got out and Kathy got out.  I walked around the back of the truck, shook my head, tried to get some air.  I said, “I don’t know what’s going on.  I don’t feel right.”  She said, “Do you want me to drive?”  I said, “No, no, I can drive.”  We get back in the truck and I pull out.  I don’t know how far I went, maybe only 2-3-4 blocks on the highway, and I pull over again.  I told Kathy, “I think you’d better drive.  I’m getting weak and dizzy spells.  I don’t know what’s going on.”  So I get in on the passenger side, and she’s driving.


The part I’m going to tell you now, I can remember bits and pieces, but I’m going to tell you what Kathy told me happened.  I’m getting dizzy and things are getting blacker and blacker, and I’m getting tunnel vision… I remember blacking out.  Boom!  Everything went 90,000 miles an hour.  Boom!  She’s driving, okay?  I can hear her voice.  “What’s wrong with you?  Come on, wake up!”  I can hear her yelling and screaming at me.  She was panicked.   Here’s the part she told me:  I started flopping around in the truck.  My arm got caught in the steering wheel.  She didn’t know what to do.  She’s trying to drive to work and it’s foggy.  She’s trying to hold me back.  She put her hand on my neck to feel the pulse.  The next thing she said, I was out.  Boom.  I just stopped flopping and everything.


Now, the part I remember is when I’m talking to her.  It’s kind of hard to explain.  She’s yelling, and I thought I was talking to her, and I told her, “You gotta go on in life without me.  I’m in a different place now.  There’s nothing I can do for you.  I’m here and you’re here.  I’m someplace else where I have no idea.  Just keep on driving and you’ll make it.  I gotta go now.  Goodbye!”  I was talking and I thought she was listening to me.  I thought I was alive.  She says I was not talking, and I thought I was.


I’m in the cab of the truck--above the cab of the truck, looking down at myself.  I’m in a fetal position, all curled up, and I don’t know where I’m at.  I could see her driving the truck, I could see my grey shorts and grey tank top.  I could see myself, and I KNEW I was in a different place.  This happened in a seven mile span.  Then I came out of it just a touch.  I remember her running into the police station, but nobody was there, so she went on to her work.  I remember opening the passenger side door, and I have no idea where I’m at.  I didn’t recognize the building or the parking lot.  So she ran in and called 911, and here comes the fire department.  All I can remember is the fire department saying, “He’s dead.  You’d better call an ambulance because he’s gone.  Code red.”  Next thing I know, I’m in this ambulance, and they’re taking me to the hospital.  The ambulance came to the parking lot, and put the paddles on me, boom boom, and nothing happened.  I heard them say, “There’s a sheriff’s car coming from (deleted), and the sheriff’s a paramedic.  The ambulance stopped to meet him, and I look up as he’s loosening his tie.  He says, “Are you on drugs?”  I have oxygen on my face, but I’m saying, “No, no!”  He starts putting IVs in me.


I’m going to back up now. When I was hovering over the top of myself, all of a sudden I knew I was in a different world.  I wasn’t here on earth any more, the reason being, all of a sudden, I see Christmas tree lights, all white lights--thousands of them.  Then it got really quiet and calm.  After it got calm, my body started going about 90 miles an hour, and all of a sudden, my life started passing in front of my eyes.  It went from a little pink dot, and it was like a deck of cards being flipped so fast, that’s how fast this was going.  You can’t stop it.  That’s how fast my life was passing before my eyes.  It was a continuous motion picture, passing non-stop.  I could see myself.  I was probably 8 years old, holding a little beebee gun.  Then suddenly I see this oil well I used to play on in the back yard.  Here’s me in the Marine Corps, holding a rifle.  Armed forces.  Zip! That was it!  It went that fast!


Then here I am, looking at this orange and yellow ball.  And it’s scary.  I don’t know where the hell I’m at, but it’s beautiful.  All of a sudden, it’s like tunnel vision—I’m looking down this tunnel.  This little pink light went to a greenish-blue light.  That’s when my life was passing.  Then I’m up here looking at this orange and yellow ball, that was soft--it was hot-- looking into a tunnel.  Everything is quiet, dead quiet, but it’s peaceful.  I have no idea, but I know I’m not on earth.  I know!   All of a sudden, there was this voice.  It wasn’t male or female, it wasn’t nice, or soft.  You’ve heard of impersonators.  Impersonators can’t imitate this voice.  The reason is that there’s only one voice like that.  When you hear this, voice, you KNOW this voice.  I cannot describe this voice.  It wasn’t strong; it wasn’t mean; it wasn’t soft.  It was a voice!  I cannot explain this voice.  And I couldn’t turn my head, because this voice was talking to me.  I cannot remember what it was saying.  I do remember the voice saying to me, “You’ve got to go back.  We’re not ready for you.”  I wanted to turn my head and look at this voice, but I couldn’t see it.  It was dark, it was black and beautiful, the orange ball, the lights, my life passing before my eyes.  Next thing I know I’m back!  This thing went fast!  Instead of my life going forward, it went in reverse.  I was going backwards now.  All these lights, and the orange and yellow faded.  It’s gone.


Now I’m back at the hospital--the ambulance, the gurney, and I’m coming to on the gurney, and I’m looking at these people, and I’m out of here!  Boom!  I had no blood pressure.  They said I was gone.  Then I was coming back.  I was sweaty and cold, and my mouth was going 90 miles an hour and I started telling this doctor what happened.  I said, “I just saw the tunnel, the light, the voice!”  He said, “You’re fine, Larry.”  He left the room, and everything started going black again.  The doctor came back in and started pushing on my chest. When I told him about what happened, the doctor said, “I’m a medical doctor and I don’t believe in this stuff, but from what you’re telling me, you just had a near-death experience.”  My mouth was going 90 miles an hour!


I told the doctor I want to go to the VA Hospital.  He said, “Well, you’re going to have to sign a release.  We’d have to transport you from the hospital to the VA in Iowa City and we’re not responsible if you die on the way.”  I said, I’m not worried about that.  I wanted to go see Todd, the chaplain, so I could talk to him.  He’s been a friend and we’ve had some really good talks.


So they’re rushing me to Iowa City in this ambulance, and I keep blacking out. They put me in the emergency room, and I told them my symptoms and that the doctor said I had a near-death experience.  The nurse said, “We don’t really believe in that.  You must have had a drug reaction.”  I said I’m not on any drugs!


As they’re taking me to the elevator, who should be standing there, but Todd!  I said, “Todd, I gotta talk to you!  I had a near-death experience and I gotta talk to you.”  He told me he’d be right up.  So they put me in my room, and I’m waiting for him, but they give me some medication and I’m out.  Twenty-four hours, and I’m out.  When I woke up,  I looked on my pillow, and there were two books about the near-death experience.  I told the nurse I wanted to see Todd!  I was so weak, but I said, “I’m going to get out of this bed!”  The nurses didn’t even see me as I walked by the nurse’s station.  I went all the way downstairs on the elevator, with those gowns they dressed me in.  There’s Todd standing by the elevator!  Then he came up to my room, and before he came in the room, I knew what he was going to ask me.  I knew word for word what he was going to say.  I said, “No, Todd, I don’t know about your daughter.  I didn’t see her up there.”  His daughter was killed, and I knew he was going to ask me about her.  I told him about everything, and he asked if he could send someone who works in the kitchen up to talk to me.  Some things happened in this man’s family, and he’s interested.


I read 2 or 3 chapters in the book, and I found I was reading about myself!  I thought, “This is interesting!  I’m reading about myself!”  This guy from the kitchen knocks at the door, and he got two feet in the door, and I thought, “Uh-oh.”  I knew what he was going to ask.  I’d never seen him before in my life, but I knew his son was killed by a shotgun before he even walked in the room.  It was like picking his brain, but it was so simple.  Just boom!  I knew what he would say before he said it!  I’m thinking, “What is this near-death experience, all this weird stuff is happening to me!”   It gets spookier!  He says, “I had a son that got killed on a hunting trip.” (I knew, but I didn’t dare say that.)  “Did you see him up there?”  I said, “No, I just heard a voice, I didn’t see your son up there.”  What he meant when he asked the question was, “I would love to change places with you, so I could go see my son.”  I knew what he meant.  I knew before he even said that!  He wanted to change places so he could do some looking around to find his son.


This knowing went on for a month.  I knew what people were going to say before they said it, and it was getting spooky because I could tell what people were thinking.  For example, I could go to a Bishop’s Cafeteria, and I could look over at people and know what they were thinking!  I told my wife, Kathy, “If you could hear what I’m hearing!”  She told me, “Don’t talk like this.  People won’t understand.”  She got to the point where she didn’t understand me, but I got to the point where I knew what people were thinking without their mouths open!  As this went along, when I’d pick up a magazine or something, it wasn’t like when you and I pick one up.  I was seeing something in a magazine that nobody else could see.  I’d look at it and everything was in three dimensions--everything was away from the page.  You know how you wear those little glasses in a movie for three dimension.  It was like that.  I thought, “This guy’s not on the page—he’s out here!”  When I told the doctors, they sent me down to have my eyes checked.  They ordered me new glasses, but it was still three dimension, no matter what I picked up!  This went on for quite awhile, but it did finally go away.  It was spooky.  I still don’t know why I’m back here.  I haven’t a clue.  All I can tell you is I KNOW what happened!


Back in the life passing before my eyes, there was nothing left out.  It was going fast.  I knew that was my life.  It was like somebody put on a reel in a motion picture, and they speeded up the film.  Your life!  Your whole life!  There was nothing spliced or cut out.  It was your whole life, from the day you were born, to the time you went to kindergarten, to when you stole a piece of bubble gum out of the dime store.  It was continuous!   Driving cars, stealing hubcaps, having sex.  Nothing was left out!  It was the whole life!  It happened just on the way from (deleted) to (deleted) where Kathy worked.   The taller I got, the bigger the picture got!  I thought I was gone.  I knew I was in a different place.  I was watching myself, my whole life.  I couldn’t see anybody around me, just me.  Nobody was in the background or anything.  It was just my life.  Nobody was involved but me.  That was my own film.


 Q.  Was this experience difficult to put into words?


A.   It’s just hard.  It all depends on who you talk to.  Some people I wouldn’t dare tell the story to.  Some people I start talking about the near-death experience, and Kathy said, “Hey!”  It embarrasses her.  If people would just let people talk and tell people, but even my own wife doesn’t want me to tell anybody.


One thing I did learn from this is that I got something given to me and I don’t know what it is.  This is fact.  I was given something.  I don’t know how to use it.  I don’t know what I was given.  I was given the gift to hear the Voice that nobody else has heard.  It was given to me.  Try to understand what I’m going to tell you.  I can’t sell it.  I can’t give it away.  I can’t show anyone.  It’s mine and I can’t describe it very well.  And I can’t put it on video so that someone could see it.  I was given something nobody else has got!  I can’t even put it on film and sell it in a market.  You’d have to see what I really did see!  It exists, but it doesn’t exist.  I wish that I could communicate it, but I CANT!  When The Man gave it to me, he said, “Go do what you want with it, Larry.”  But you can’t get rid of it. It’s mine!


I KNOW what I’ve seen, and no one’s going to take it away from me.  I know the Voice,  I know it!  But I can’t describe it.  It hurts me!  I can’t imitate it.  There’s only one voice like that.  The Man himself.  You can’t be a second to him.  He’s the one.


Q.  Did you hear any other sounds in your near-death experience?


A.  Dead quiet.


Q.  Did you feel as though you were moving?


A.  No.


Q.  Did you feel you were separate from your body?


A.  In the truck, when I was looking down.  Then I was separate from my body.  Then I left there and whooshed up, then I was out here and it was quiet.  Tranquility.  I’ve already left here.  I didn’t know what to think, looking at the body.  I knew that was me, and I knew I was gone.


Q.  Did you feel any connection between you and your body?


A.  I knew that was me.  That was my only connection.


Q.  What were your perceptions of time?


A.  This is the part – the seven-mile trip—it seemed very fast.  The time the voice was talking to me, that was slow; especially the life passing, the tunnel, the ball, that was slow, because I had a chance to look at that.  The little white lights, that was slow.  Then it got black and that was slow.  It was pitch black for awhile.  But it was like I was a distance away, looking back at earth.  Whoosh.  It was like I was going 90miles an hour.


Q.  How was your vision and hearing in that state?


A.  Fantastic!  I could see the lights and the darkness.  It was like I was looking through the darkness!  I was looking and looking and it was all black, but I could still see it.  It was still black at the other end of the darkness.


Q.  Were you lonely?


A.  No.  I knew I was alone because I couldn’t see anyone.  But the Voice was over here, so I wasn’t alone.


Q.  Did you encounter any others, either living or dead?


A.  Nobody.  Everyone asks me that.


Q.  How did you feel in the presence of the Voice?


A.  At times I was scared because I didn’t know where I was.  He kept kind of assuring me, “You’re okay, you’re okay.”  But he wouldn’t let me look at him!  “We’re not ready for you yet, Larry.  You’re going to go back.”  I wanted to look at him and say something else like, “Oh man, I don’t wanna go back.  Let me talk to you.”  But he was doing all the talking, and I was listening.


Q. If you could have spoken, would you have said you didn’t want to go back?”


A.  I didn’t want to go back.  My mouth was shut!  My mouth was closed and I was listening.


Q.  How do you interpret that you couldn’t turn to look?


A.  It felt like a force.  The voice did not want me to look at who was doing the speaking.  I was not supposed to see who was doing the talking.  There’s no way I could have seen it because it was too strong.  I was meant not to see it and that’s just the way it was.  It was gentle, I knew, but I was looking straight ahead and listening.


Q.  What did you perceive of the lights?


A.  I thought I was in heaven, looking through the galaxy, is what it looked like to me.  It looked like I was out here.  I’ve left this.  I’m no longer here.  I’m someplace else, like I was out in space.  Away from my body.


Q.  Any demons or frightening spirits?


A.  No.  Except at first it was frightening because I had no idea where I was, and I was scared to death.  I knew I was dead when my life passed.  I wasn’t worried I was going to hell or heaven.  Whatever it is, I knew I must be okay because I’m still thinking straight and I knew what was going on.


Q   What did you feel you learned from seeing your life go by like that?


A.  That when I get back to wherever I’m going, I’m going to take life more serious.  In other words, don’t wake up in the morning, see a bird, and take that poor little bird for granted.  Before, when people would talk to me I would say, “Yeah, okay…”  But now when people talk to me, I listen to every word they say.  I have more compassion for people.  I don’t take things for granted any more.  This will sound like I’m contradicting myself.  I used to hear what I wanted to hear.  But now I listen to everything you say.  And I don’t look at a bird as a bird, I look at a bird as a human.  But.  Everything I see here now is not real any more.  Nothing I see is really real.  What I saw over there was real.  This (life) is like an imitation, because I saw the “real McCoy.” I do take things more seriously and listen more, but I don’t take it for real.  It’s not as real as what I saw.  But I still listen and watch the waitresses pour my coffee but it’s not real.  Every time I pick up a magazine or watch TV, I know it’s material things, but it’s not real.


Q.  How did the life review communicate that to you?


A.  I don’t know.  Just what I saw was real.  This is not real.


Q.  You look at everything as more valuable in a way, and yet you know it’s not real.


A.  It’s not real.


Q.  Did you approach any boundary or limit?


A.  No.


Q.  Did you want to come back to your body, to your life?


A.  No.  I was told I had to go back.


Q.  How did you feel when you found yourself back in your body?


A.  I wondered what in the world happened to me!  Then when the doctors told me I had a near-death experience, then I knew.  I’d heard about them, but I didn’t know about them.  Then I thought, “I got one of them!  Now what do I do about it!”  Then I started looking at things, and everything was in 3-D on top of it.  And before the doctor diagnosed me, I knew what was going to come out of his mouth, but I didn’t dare tell him!  I already knew what he was going to say.


This is funny.  I was in the mall one time.  This guy and this woman were going by and she’s thinking about her boyfriend!  Another time, a waitress came and she wasn’t talking to me, but I knew she and the cook were having an argument in back and I knew all about it.  She wasn’t going to say anything to me.


Q.  So were you disappointed to be back in your body?


A.  I just accepted it.  Next time I go, I know what to expect.  I’m not scared of death anymore.  I’m not, because I’ve already been there!


Q.  How did you get back into your body?


A.  I have no idea how I got back in, but my chest really hurt.  I had a lot of pressure on my chest.


Q.  Do you have any idea why you didn’t die?


A.  I was sent back and I was supposed to do something, and I don’t know what.  I don’t know what.  I’m here, and I don’t know if it’s supposed to jump out at me and I’ll know.  I haven’t a clue.  I haven’t a clue!   Maybe I’m supposed to save somebody from getting hit by a car, or something, but I know I’m here for a reason.  I know this, but don’t ask me how I know, because I know.  I don’t know how I know, but I’ve got to be here.  I haven’t a clue.


Q.  When you were watching your life, was there any judgment of you?


A.  No. The whole reel of film just told me where I’ve been and what I’ve done. “This is you, Larry.  Here you are.  What are you going to do with it now?”


Q.  Did you feel shame, or joy?


A.  It was like I knew that was me, and I was excited--emotional, maybe is the word.  I was worried.  I knew I was already dead, and here I go.  I’m just waiting until the end of the film and it’s over.  Boom!  That was it.  “This is your life, and what you did, and boom!  It’s over.  Now you’re up here with the stars and the ball, and here you are.  Then the voice said you gotta go back.  He was letting me know this is the end.  You don’t have much left, Larry, so we’re going to send you back.  There’s a reason, but I don’t know what I’m supposed to do.  I know that I’m here for a reason, but I don’t know.


Q.  You told someone very soon after you woke up.


A.  The first doctor said, “I’m a medical doctor.  I shouldn’t believe in this stuff.  But Larry, I believe in you because I’ve talked to other doctors who’ve heard it.  You’re the first one I’ve talked to.  We’re not supposed to believe in this, but it happens.”  He was on my side but he’s not supposed to be on my side.


Q.  Did talking to others help you gain any clarity in your mind?


A.  I wanted to tell everybody about it.  But some people would listen, and say, “Well, okay…” and I knew what they were thinking that they didn’t believe me, but I couldn’t tell them I knew what they were thinking.  Then I could cut it short, and just say, “Well, it happens,”  and we’d go do something else.


Q.  You talked to the chaplain, Todd, about it?


A.  Yes.  He knew that I knew what I was talking about.


Q.  Would you say this experience happened to you for a reason?


A.  Yes.  I’m supposed to do something.  There’s a reason.  That’s my belief.


Q.  Did it affect your sense of purpose in living?


A.  Yes, I want to know why I’m back here.


Q.  Any new outlook on life?


A.  Yes.  I take things more seriously now, but nothing’s real, it’s all material.


Q.  Did it have any effect on the direction of your life?


A.  Yes and no.  Everything’s the same, but I’m working more with the vets now.  I do more with them than to just send my dues in.  I’m enjoying every bit of it.  If I had to do it 24 hours a day, I’d do it.  We’ve got a memorial I’m working on.


Q.  Did it change your attitudes or feelings about yourself?


A.  In a way it made me feel stronger about myself.  I’m not a nobody, I’m really a somebody, but I just can’t prove I’m a somebody.  This is just on the inside.  You don’t going around bragging.  I’m a somebody because I’ve got something nobody else’s got.  I didn’t realize it until a little bit after it, and you get your bearings.  At the time you don’t realize it.


Q.  Did it effect how you relate to other people?


A.  I listen more.  My wife probably thinks I’m the same because she doesn’t understand.  She doesn’t want to talk about it.  She doesn’t want any part of it.   I don’t know if other’s spouses understand them either.


Q.  Has it changed your desire to help others?


A.  Yes, pay attention to others.  Don’t overdo it, but don’t let’em take advantage of others.


Q.  Did it change your ability to express love for others?


A.  Yes.


Q.  Your acceptance of others as they are?


A.  Yes.  Before I accepted others, but now even more so.  As an example, I don’t believe in what bin Laden did to the World Trade Center towers, because that was horrible.  We’ve got to get rid of that clown, but I also don’t believe in going over to kill any more people.  Two wrongs don’t make a right.  There’s other ways we can settle this.  Maybe I’m wrong, but that’s how I feel.


Q.  Did it have any effect on your religious or spiritual beliefs?


A.  No, I’m still the same as I was.


Q.  Did it affect your church attendance?


A.  No.


Q.  How did it affect your inner feelings about God?


A.  I still believe in him, and I did before.  But the part I don’t understand.  I wasn’t a religious nut, I’m just me, Joe Blow, an old construction worker, walking down the street, drinking beer at night in the bar with the guys--good old fist fight.  Why he picked me I don’t know.


Q.  Do you think that was God’s voice you heard?


A.  Yes.  It was The Man.


Q.  Did you fear death before?


A.  No, I never thought of it.  They don’t know if I had a seizure, a stroke, or a heart attack. It came back inconclusive.  They don’t know what happened to me. That’s the reason they asked me if I was on drugs.  I quit drinking in 1991.  I don’t do street drugs.  I hadn’t taken my medication because it was too early.


Q.  Did you recover fairly quickly?


A.  I was in the hospital for about a week, but when I got home, it took me awhile to get my bearings.  Even on the TV set, and I couldn’t read, because everything was in 3D.  When I looked at TV it wasn’t real.  I lost interest in TV because it wasn’t real.  I was kind of in my own world.  Nothing was real, and it’s still not.  But when it happened, it was MORE unreal.  The only thing that was real was what happened to me.  I’m real here, with my skin and body, but I’m not as REAL as that was.


Q. What is your understanding of death?


A.  I have an idea.  You’re going to go to a nice place.  A real place.  This is not real.  You’re going to be in the REAL world.  This is where you’re at for now.  You’re going to go to the REAL world.


Q.  Do you have any feelings about reincarnation?


A.  I don’t know anything about that.  I’m not a reader, but I’d read a book about the near-death experience, because it happened to me.  I’ve probably read five.  I only read the newspaper, the sports page.


Q.  Did you experience any changes in your psychic abilities?


A.  In the beginning I could tell what people would say before they even said anything.  And the 3D thing!  I got new glasses to pacify them, but it didn’t change the 3D.  It was spooky, just one of those things that happen.


Q.  Did you have any precognitions?


A.  Yes, I had all kinds of little things like that that happen to me.  Before someone knocked on the door, I knew they were coming.  When a car pulled up, I knew my buddies were going to show up.  The phone would ring.  I knew it would ring and who was calling.  I still do know, but not as much as I did.


Q.  Do you feel you had any changes in your learning ability?


A.  Yes, my learning ability did improve!  This is hard to explain. Like when it comes to business and I don’t know anything about business, but something popped in there when it comes to business!  I explained this to my doctor.  Things like this have been happening to me.  (Tells story about how he bought some land in an unusual way.)  Years ago, I could never think like this, how to do things.  And it worked!


Q.  So your mind works a little differently?


A.  Yeah!


Q.  A little more creatively?


A.  Yeah!  Completely differently!  The stuff I come up with that I never thought of before, and it works!


Q.  Before your near-death experience, did you ever feel you were in touch with spirits or guides?


A.  Sometimes and sometimes not.  In fourth grade….we played the game “Hide the Eraser” when it was raining outside.  (Tells story of how every time a child hid an eraser, he always knew right where it was.  The teacher accused him of cheating, and took him to the principal’s office, where he said, “I’m not cheating.”  He got the principal to pick a number between 1 and 10, and Larry guessed it every time.  He was sent home with a note, and his mother came to school to see the teacher and principal.  But he never found out what was discussed about his ability.  Later, in the service, at one point he was playing cards, and he knew every card the others had in their hands.  He had the others hide a pencil, and Larry knew where it was every time.  They took him to talk to the doctor “to see what was wrong with him.”  The doctor told him he was okay.


Q.  So you have had psychic abilities.


A.  Off and on, not all the time.  It depends on the mood I’m in.  I can’t make it come.  It just happens.  The older I get the less it does it.


Q.  What do you feel about suicide?


A.  I don’t think they should do that.  They should just let it naturally happen.  Don’t rush it.  I’m not sure where they would go.


Q.  What do you now understand death to be?


A.  It’s a dimension.  You’ve already been here.  Now you’re going to go into this dimension, this completely new world.  That’s how I look at it.


Q.  Did you believe in heaven or hell before this experience?


A.  When I was a kid.  You have to be a good little kid and you’ll go to heaven; if you’re a bad little boy, you’ll go to hell.


Q.  Now do you believe in heaven and hell?


A.  Yes.  Everybody’s going to go to heaven!


Q.  What about hell?


A.  I didn’t have that experience, so I don’t even know what that’s like.


Q.  Do you feel there could be a hell?


A.  Yes.  Wherever it is.  Some probably would.  I’m not too much into religion.  I don’t know too much about it.  I was probably the biggest renegade that walked the streets, and I went to a good place.  I know I didn’t lead the best life.  I wasn’t a Bible pounder; I was just a construction worker, a stupid Marine.


Q.  So if you could get there and have that experience, then anybody could?


A.  I guess.  It depends on what The Man tells you.  If you’re out here killing people everyday, I don’t think you’re going to go.  Or like bin Laden, I know where’s he’s going, he’s already got a place for him; he doesn’t know it, but he’s already gone.


Q.  Have you read the Bible since?


A.  I never read the Bible.


Q.  Before it happened, had you heard of the near-death experience?


A.  Very little--a little on TV.  But I never thought it would happen to me.  Never in a million years, and then it happened.  I’m just going to die a natural death and probably go to hell.  No really.  That’s exactly how I felt.


Q.  People who have NDEs come back so changed by it, they sometimes have marital difficulty.  Did you have marital changes?


A.  We’ve always had problems, now we have worse problems.  But it has nothing to do with that; maybe it has something to do with it….


Q.  Would you say that you are more sound or light sensitive than you were before?


A.  Noises bother me.


Q.  Have you ever felt you had energy coming from your hands?


A.  From my body!  My body is radiating more.  There’s more radiating.  Before, there was probably this much radiation (about an inch) and now I’ve got this much (about 4 inches).  I just know.  I sense it.  It’s positive, I guess.  I feel spurts of energy.


Q.  Would you describe this as being a “growth event” for you?


A.  It did change me, on the inside.  I just know things.  It’s so hard to explain.


Q.  Another experiencer I talked to told me, “I don’t know what I know.  Ask me questions!”


A.  I agree with her 100%.   You should have seen me right after it happened!  I thought, “This is neat!”  First it was scary, but then I came down to earth a little bit, and I still feel that….


Q.  Another experiencer I talked to said it’s almost like she has someone watching over her, helping her.  Do you ever feel that?


A.  Does she talk to them?


Q.  I didn’t ask her that!


A.  I do.  I don’t know who’s here helping me, but someone is here.  Absolutely.  Absolutely.  There’s somebody or something…once in a while I talk to them.  I say, “Thanks a lot, you were right!”   Let’s say I want to back the car out of the driveway, and this voice says don’t do it.  Say I shun it.  This has happened to me!  You shun it, you don’t listen, the next thing you know, you’re backing over something.  If I listen to this voice, it never fails!  So help me, God!  If I listen to it, it works.


Q.  Is it actually a voice you hear?


A.  It’s not like you and I are talking.  It’s a voice inside that tells you.  I had it a little bit when I was younger, but not like now.  Now it’s really strong.  And I laugh to myself, “Yeah, it was right again!”    Listen to that voice, because it’s always 100%.  I hear it, maybe once a day.


Q.  Is there anything else about your near-death experience that we didn’t cover?


A.  Nothing is real.  It’s real, but it’s not real.  That stays with me.  I take people seriously.  I don’t take problems so seriously.  Like my truck—I ran into a deer.  I didn’t take it seriously.  I don’t need a truck!   Before my near-death experience, I worried –a worry-wart, oh man!  I’m more relaxed about it.  I know everything will be all right.


The near-death experience is so hard to explain.  This is not real.  This is man-made, human-made.  That is not man-made.  That’s real.  But I still don’t know what I’m doing.  I haven’t a clue.  I do know that when you get there (to the other side) you’ve gotta talk to someone.  I was doing the listening.  You listen!   It was a strong authority; it was a soft authority.  It was guiding—the choice is yours.  What do you want to do?


The love was there, but I didn’t go into the light.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1larry_nde.html