{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1larry_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Larry B NDE 2975","mylang":"de"}
          	        Larry B NDE 2975  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Larry B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1055  Larry B NDE  2975  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  We had a large tank of helium at work to inflate balloons for sales and other special events. Of course goofing off is involved when that gas is around.

It was the end of the day and I had clocked out. Most everyone had left at that point except for the supervisor doing the day's tally, the person that was carpooling with me, and me. I was taking 'hits' from the helium bottle. More like clearing my lungs and inhaling from the bottle instead of what I was supposed to be inhaling. Took quite a few breaths doing this. Kind of like hyperventilating. I figured I had overdone things a bit when I notice that I was exhaling a large amount of helium with each breath. Kind of feels like you're pushing rubber out your mouth and nose. That and I was extremely light headed. I quit doing that at that point and figured I should stop goofing off. I cleared out the pockets of my shirt, undid the first button, and was working on the second when the world went white. The rest is somewhat confused.

I was holding onto a lighter in my right hand as I was taking off my shirt. I vaguely remember hearing it hit the floor. The next thing I noted was that I hit my head. I noted I hit it hard but it didn't seem to concern me. Then I was standing in this place. I guess I could use the word beautiful to describe it but it was more of a mist and a feeling than anything was. I was alone at first. But then people started appearing. I recognized them all. Some relatives and friends. The others, well I knew them somehow. They were all happy to see me but somewhat concerned. I remember the overall feeling from them, as I wasn't supposed to be there. One of them pulled me aside and asked me a few questions. I answered them. He then said that someone was going to come and talk me out of staying. I replied something to the effect of I have no intention of leaving. A little while afterwards a man stepped out of the crowd. He said that he wasn't going to make me leave and that I had earned the right to be there but I put him in a bind. There were things I was supposed to do and me, being where I was, put a kink in things. He said what they were, though as I stated before I can't remember the exact conversation. He also said that he could get someone else to do these things but time was short. He also implied that my wife and children would miss me. At that point, I felt bad about things. Suffering and misery are two words that can describe it though not adequately. He saw my state and asked what was wrong. I told him I couldn't do these things as I had screwed up. At that point, he smiled and put his hand on my shoulder and said, 'Now is not your time.' And this is the only thing I can say verbatim.

My vision returned and the first thing I noticed was this 'wet rag' feel of something under me. I glanced at it and said aloud 'Oh. It's my body'. I got up off the floor and dusted myself off. Took off my shirt. Then went outside and asked the guy who was carpooling with me as to how long I was gone. He said only a couple of minutes. No longer than five. I got into my car and just went about my business.

I have blacked out and hit my head before so I have a reference point. When I hit my head, I felt it and saw 'stars' even after I had blacked out. After I came too I spent the next half an hour regaining my balance, the next six trying to figure out what had happened, and how much time I had lost as I was extremely disoriented. None of this occurred. I don't know what it could be or what else it could be if not one of these.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 around Sept of 2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident     Direct head injury    Other In a state of Hypoxia.  Was goofing off with helium and overdid it.  Like I said. I was goofing off with helium. Taking deep breaths from a helium bottle trying to get the 'Donald Duck' voice to last long enough to take off my shirt and go out to the car. I knew I over did things when I was exhaling a large amount of helium when I was breathing.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was aware and alert thought the experience. I just can't clearly recall things afterwards.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was aware and alert thought the experience. I just can't clearly recall things afterwards.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I recall sound. I don't recall how the sounds were created.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did know them. Some from this life. Others I don't have a clue but I know I knew them. They were all around me. Can't recall verbatim what was said.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, happiness, remorse, hope.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told of three or four things I am to do. Don't recall what they were. I was told my wife and children would miss me. I am single and unmarried.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The place I was standing in. I don't think there are words in any spoken language that can accurately convey what I experienced.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I sense things. Hard to explain. I am seeing places and people in dreams I later see in real life.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience. Gives me hope and reassurance I guess.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About six months. We were just discussing religion. I put in my two cents.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Saw a movie about it once.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was confused. Just trying to figure if it meant anything at all.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know something happened. Just didn't know what until I accidentally ran into materials about NDE's.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's kind of cloudy. Some things are easy to recall. But specific details seem to elude me. Such as whatever that guy said to me about my purpose in life.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1larry_b_nde.html