{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1larry_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Larry M NDE 9716","mylang":"de"}
          	        Larry M NDE 9716  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Larry M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5245 Larry M NDE 9716  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  Sunday, June 20, 1954, I believe @ 10:47 am {Father’s Day} 

  At this time, I was Five Years-Six months old ...

  My parents were setting up a picnic, as I believe it was Father's Day. 

  On the Eventful Day … My mood lightened considerably as we were allowed to leave the car, rather than having to wait inside, as my father was unloading the items that were brought along. It was a very pleasant day ... the air was clean, the sky was clear, and the Redwood trees were magnificent. 

  As they were setting the area up to prepare lunch, my brother noticed the stream nearby and wanted to go investigate, I was content with staying by the area my parents were in for the time. 

  However, eventually, my brother came back as said he wanted to show me what he had found, mentioning he found a stream of water nearby and might have commented that I should come see, as there may be fish in the water or perhaps heard a frog singing a song, nearby.

  My father, {our father}, said that it was okay to go look at the water, as it may be a good place for swimming, however, 'do not go into the water.' As well, we were still wearing our shorts.

  My brother indicated that he heard him, by making a gesture with his hand, and nodding his head. It was probable that we were each wearing shorts, although it is possible my mother was familiar with the area and brought swimming trunks, however, this would have been for after the lunch was over. 

  As I had excellent hearing at the time as well as seem to have some telepathic connection with my mother, I heard my mother respond, 'boys, stay out of the water until your father has a moment to look at the stream.' 

  However, my brother had left the area, acting as though he had not really heard her. Then, I heard him say that he also said he was taking off his shoes, just to sit on the edge, and test the water.

  Then, he got up and I followed at a distance at first, then did not see him, I was near enough to see the water for a bit, saw where he had left his shoes and was about to return to the car, when he ran over, saying that he had permission to go in. I had little reason to doubt him as our father was not one to ignore his instructions.

  I still chose to stay on the dry ground, at least ten feet from the edge, as I was concerned about getting into trouble if I came back with mud on my shoes. Soon, I realized that, as he had taken his shoes  and socks off, that he had already waded in, soon, as he went further, he was in the water, he commented that it was not really very deep, and it was actually warm … from what I recall, the water was no higher the bottom edge of his shorts, at least where he was standing. So, I am not sure why, or exactly when, I was coaxed into the water. However, it seems that he then went to a deeper part, and began waving, as he wanted to have me chase him and then he said he wanted to play a game. 

  If I were older, perhaps I may not have been so naive as this just was not a normal activity with him to ask me to play a game. Especially, he always made sure he would win, even cheated if he was losing and most of the time had one or more of his friends around and would find a way for one of them to distract me as he alters the game and if needed, to hurt me, so I was sufficiently distracted.

  As he explained the game to me, at first, I would hold him down, under the water, until he tapped my leg and/or side would let him up and he would do the same. On the third round, it was his turn that he held me under, only on the third time, it seemed that he was not letting me back up, and as he pushed me down again so quickly, I did not have time to fill my lungs with air, more likely swallowed water. 

  So, I initially struggled for a bit and then soon realized that I was out of air and after what seemed to be a very long time, which was most likely a few minutes at most, I had begun to gasp, taking in water, apparently, also into my lungs as I was trying to breathe. 

  Perhaps, later in this writing if a question allows, I will explain, that had become aware that I had the ability to leave my body for periods of time and return shortly afterward … which, apparently, I did, often, especially as my father was beating me with his belt, often, without apparent reason, although, sometimes because of something my brother had done, which was confusing to me. 

  However, I learned that the pain would diminish as I moved further out from my physical form.

  Still, I had always returned from my apparent Astral Journey, which, I would find myself in my room, sobbing, searching for answers as to what I had done wrong, seldom finding answers … I had some vague recollection that I also had a stellar imagination and could imagine being in a Bubble, as an observer, seeing myself and others, at a distance, even in a different area of the world. 

  Of course, this is one of the things that got me into so much trouble as I realized that I was not paying attention to my father’s comments, especially at the kitchen table, when I really was not interested in whatever was on my plate. There were other times, which I would do mostly at night, quietly sneaking out of the room, seeking my imaginary friends company.

  However, in this particular case, as I was floating above this event, again, to distance myself from the horrible feeling I was experiencing in my chest, lungs, as my mind was racing … Soon, I was at peace … I hesitated to return as he still had not released me and I saw my body stop struggling. 

  And as I was floating just a few feet above the water that held our physical bodies, I saw his face and realized that he apparently had no intention of letting me up. If I stayed, I would continue to struggle, and I felt a distant pain rising in the body below, so I disconnected, completely and noticed the physical body went limp. 

  At this moment, I perceived the pain my body was in had stopped, I noticed that my body was still, which also seems to have surprised him. And so, my soul continued to process what had just happened.

  Apparently, ‘I ‘Had Chosen’ to leave my body, at first, perhaps to find a unique perspective , at a higher level, to perceive what was happening, however, as I grew near my body again, I felt  the pain was increasing again, I was apparently again trying to gasp for air, and only swallowing more water, I felt his grip had tightened, and was now hurting my shoulders, the options seemed limited. 

  Perhaps a panic had started a flow of chemicals that ultimately set off a series of emotions which was clouding, what I perceived was my mind. And, so I just completely disconnected from the physical portions of the mind, just as I had done with my body, although the disconnect was not immediate or as complete as I had expected, and so, I suppose to avoiding any further discomfort, as I was being held down, under the water and my body was more on an autotomic response to breathe, I moved further out .... disconnecting. 

  Surprisingly, I could still feel water entering into my lungs, so I considered my option of simply ‘abandoning all connections to the physical sensations, not sure if I were aware that I was physically ‘dying,’ as if any of this mattered, as there seemed to not be an option. 

  It seemed that, as my senses were heightened, beyond anything I had previously experienced. I was also aware that I was considering returning, after the perpetrator had physically let go and moved away, however, I was also fairly sure that the body would not have received me back at this point.

  I guess I can say that on a level of consciousness, I could feel my soul as my body was failing, which I am aware that my soul has moved away before when I wanted or needed to escape the abuse my physical body was enduring, as I recalled several other memories, as my father was quite quick to pull his belt off and used it on me when he seemed angry, which was a bit too often. And I found I could just leave the body as it was becoming numb, although I could still feel the pain, I could hear an echo of a sobbing noise, and of course his yelling … 'I will give you something to cry about.' 

  Although, as I Mentioned, that in the past, this was more to disassociate, to observe, seemingly entering into an almost different, yet adjoining dimension, to meet with some of my spiritual friends and I would always come back from wherever I was or how far I was from the apparent reality associate with 'Time-Space-Consciousness,' and was able to both disconnect and reconnect relatively quickly after I had been sent to my room. 

  And when I was inside this bubble of consciousness, I was also always able to maintain an awareness and connection to my body, although, it was as an 'Objective Observer,' not a subjective one … with minimal emotional connections. It seems that this was one of my gifts that I had become aware of, while I was in my host’s womb, for the second time. 

  Then, I was back, watching, observing, performing some type of spiritual algorithms in regard to the usefulness of the fleshy body as well as the surrounding events below. And, as I acknowledged that this was different … being submerged under the water.

  I no longer felt connected to my body, I was not aware of my parent’s presence … and I realized even the entering the water was becoming a distant memory  … I was apparently in pain, in various parts of my body  … and had never hurt so much, all over, with even my legs cramping as they were being pushed into the mud below. I had gotten too close.

  I  finally, completely, disconnected, one final time, with no intention of returning … I recall briefly pausing, looking back, noting that the perpetrator, was still holding me down, however, the expression on his face had shifted from anger, to perhaps fear, as he did not want to be seen holding my body down, especially not by 'his parents.' 

  Finally, letting his grip go, he pushed the body away from him and it started to float down the stream. This seemed to please him, as soon, the ‘evidence’ of his involvement would be gone, and he could deny any knowledge of my disappearance. 

  As I saw him heading back to the edge of the stream, he turned and was horrified when he saw that the body was snagged on a rock or perhaps some part of a fallen tree branch. He was about to go back and free the body when he and I heard our father call out, 'Kids, time for lunch' … He knew his only choice was to scream out that he needed help and wait just enough time that he could reenter the water as though he was coming to my aide. 

  I had little doubt that the perpetrator would create a story, perhaps that he had turned away, for only a moment … and then ... I lost my thoughts as I really no longer cared … His innocence, my shameful act. All of this faded, and this ‘time,’ I was ‘Here,’ I was ‘home again,’ I made it back …

  I was finally free from a life that I was apparently not wanted in … not by my father, my mother and certainly not by the perpetrator. In my opinion, all were without regard to my 'personal feelings / or choice.'  I sensed a commitment that ‘this time,’ that I was going to refuse to come back without 'fully knowing' what the reason and/or benefit would be to voluntary returning to such an extraordinary difficult life … one that I truly felt I was forced into. I somehow knew that this was not my first encounter with ‘these dysfunctional people.’

   I promised that I would be more prepared in the event I needed to reconnect with any of this in another life.

  At this point, I  will just mention that in my review of what happened during this NDE experience, I also underwent an atypical review of my life’s experiences, however, this was in ‘God’s Chambers,’ which included three contiguous life times, which established two precious periods of becoming ‘her child.’

  I mention this as I do find it was a bit odd that, each time, I bypassed any experience of ‘the tunnel of lights’ ... ‘the intense feeling of peace and love’ ... ‘any pets and/or family members’ ...‘Angels or Elders helping me across’ ...  For reference, it seems important that I refer to this, as it was almost as if I was keeping a journal, almost as this is a legal document, that I would use as a deposition from a witness giving testimony in a trial ... of a murder. I was aware that I had committed to counter any suggestion that I was going ‘back there again’, as I had my notes that I just was not safe.

  Anyway, there was a short pause until I was aware that I was immediately standing in a veiled area, in front of a benevolent Entity, I can only refer to as 'Awesome, Impressive, and Imposing.'  It seemed I was momentarily looking at this scene as if I were still in my body ... and then … to my Surprise … It was My 'soul self' that was immediately aware that I was standing in front of ‘an Entity’ that was sitting on a very ornate thrown of Gold and Ivory. 

  The Entity was wearing a White Robe with a Golden belt around the waist, the hands and feet were bronze in color; There was an Aura or perhaps a Crown of Energy completely covering the face, as it extended from fully covering the top of the shoulders to 18'above what would be perceived as the top of the head, more a Cloud of Pearl White Energy from the top of the shoulders, which would cover a Crown, I suppose, if {S}he had one, which would seem appropriate, given the sense of Majestic Presence there was also a multi-colored rainbow, although more translucent, that surrounded the rest of His body, which seemed to sparkle, extending out from His/Her body. 

  I can refer to this as an Aura, that I have seen around the one that became my wife, which was many years later, when she momentarily appeared as an Angelic Presence. ... however, I felt the same reverence for her, when this occurred, around 1995.

  There was a constant flashing and sparking of faint color shifts, coming from the Entities form, yet I was not aware of any noise, only sensing varying vibrations.    

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 20, 1954  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drowning  CPR given     Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I am not sure of the why; however, my brother had already shown a propensity to cause me harm in several ways after I was born. Thus, other than being too young to process the danger I was in although, I did have some suspicion that he intended to cause me harm, and I would hear my mother tell a neighbor that asked where’re a bruise had come from and it was 'The boys, just playing, it was unintentional.’ However, in one event, I was pushed down the stairs and he had apparently left a bottle of coke on one of the steps which broke open and lodged into my leg.  Of course, I was taken to an emergency room for removal and treatment, however, it seemed the story was I had lost my balance and fell. Apparently adding being clumsy to ‘stupid’.  So, in a way, I expected something to happen, however, not to the degree of the action that he took.     

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  However, it was all local to the event, as I did not see where my parents were at the time, as I was not high enough to ‘see’ over the trees, no more than fifteen feet and I was very focused on my brothers actions.  Not immediately, the NDE event at the stream were restricted to that area, and mu initial focus was narrowed to what was occurring, until I left. However, some years later both my parents described some of the events I had seen on the Holographic Presentation that would occur in the future, not specifically of the NDE event in which I drowned, which verified my belief that I had the NDE, as well as allow me to set the place, the date , the time. As well, I was shown other future events that also occurred which also served as verification.  I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During my ‘visit,’ and prior to my return, I was shown ‘How the universe Began, significant periods in history that I ‘needed’ to know about,’ and a possible ending that included a judgement. Visions of parts of Heaven, Entities I can refer to as Angels, sorting souls into different ‘groups, by categories, and what appeared to be a Council of Beings that were Reviewing Sealed Records. 

  As far as the specifics of the NDE are concerned, I did not include all of what was shown to me for relevance to the question. However, there are portions that have more to do with my being born to this particular family, as I was told I was going to guide them through some suture event and I needed to know certain things, as I was going back to them.

  Upon my return, I was aware that I was above my father left shoulder, three to four feet away.  He made a comment that 'He has been gone over fifteen minutes, you should stop with the CPR, we have lost him.'  {Adding time in which they had to find me and retrieve my body, as my brother had to obscure his involvement, I would suggest more like 20+ minutes.}

  My mother’s replied:  'No, I was just told he is returning now. 

  At this point, I took in a deep breath, in spiritual form, and then, I was aware that I started coughing up water, then became semi-unconscious – or at least less aware of everything around me, as I had lost my ability of an almost 720 degrees of awareness.  I was in my body again and not in my spiritual form. Perhaps in my imagination, I believe the last thing heard was my father say, 'I told You Not To Go into The Water.' I have no reason to answer him. He would not have believed me. My body was tired and needed to rest.    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       From the point that My soul left my body, I seemed to be I a heightened state of awareness, a higher state of consciousness, however, not sure of a specific alertness, as I was unsure of what was going to happen next, although, I did become aware of a previous time I had ‘died’ in the process of child birth. I do accept that the was a story that she had, in part, alluded to, although, perhaps even talked about while I was in her womb, the second time. And, I was recalling this previous event with greater detail and clarity, as the last time, I was immediately in a fairly large room, in which fifty-two other souls were sitting in a circle and began sharing their stories. 

  Then, suddenly, a nurse, given her attire, and somehow knew that was my apparent mother came into the  room and before I could share ‘my story’, she escorted me out of the room. So, for a short period I disconnected from the immediate situation. My last thought was recalling that I was aware that I was again in her womb, hearing her heart beat, then, I was again present to the current event, as I felt another, perhaps final excruciating pain. this was this was just a passing thought as I moved further way, wondering if I would be allowed to stay ‘this time’ or have a debate with whoever, I was not interested in returning. The body below was becoming still, and I was apparently no longer as connected, and not receiving as much detail as I was, so I guess my thoughts had drifted. A few more minor pains again from the current event that was happening, and I just moved further away, again feeling as though I was in for a fight, as I seemed to be angry at what had just happened, having strong objections to being sent back. 

  Suddenly, I was in a large room, with an Entity, and  had an incredible meeting with I can only refer to as God in which I was allowed to ask any questions I wanted and received answers that were almost incomprehensible however I was in my soul spirit state not my human 5+ year-old body state. While I was still aware of my apparent physical self, was a near death state, apparently not breathing and no apparent heart beat, I watched for a moment as chaos ensued as body was discovered pressing against a tree limb in the waters,  however, my soul state seemed to have that of a highly sentient being, in which my senses were again heightened to a different level of conscious awareness, similar to my ‘last moments above the water, however, different.     

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I would suggest I may have been there for a good hour, and as there were no clocks, no sense of time, or urgency. I am only aware of my father comment, they had found my body fifteen minutes earlier, and I know it was much longer than that.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During the experience, I was definitely able to sense more at a much higher level, including my visual sight, as well as I guess I can say, an inner sight.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Although I was aware that I had a very good sense of hearing, what my parents described as Perfect Pitch, During the event, everything seemed to be inside my being, as there were no words. It was as though we were connected in a mind meld. So am not sure how to compare this, other than to say I have experienced this mind-mind connection since.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     As I was watching the Holographic presentations, I became aware of other events from both the past and the ‘Future. ’ The was a period that it seems I was approached as if someone knew me, although it seemed to be the pr

eparation for the judgment, in which there were un countable billion.  Some came over and we talked, possibly sharing where we met. Some stayed and talked with others around me that they may not have known. However, there were others that came for a short while, then said they wanted to go talk with some others at the other end of the ‘courtyard that they thought they knew. I asked to stay, however, then I felt sadness, as I did not expect them to come back again, as they seemed to blend in and disappear.     

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin, brilliant yet pleasing, and embracing  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I would refer to the area as God’s Thrown, I was very vast however, this was also veiled off, so our conversations were private as well as Sacred.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was initially disappointed in myself as I let my brother place me in a vulnerable situation; Then anger; them relief, then awe, feeling wanted, loved and a sense of belonging. Finally, a sense of purpose as I understood what I was being asked to do, until I felt it was not achievable and accepted it was all in God’s control and timing.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Everything about the universe, purpose of creation and our purpose  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     Most importantly, both past lives that were related to being my mother’s child; my two births with her, my subsequent deaths, and rebirths; conversations we had while I was in the womb and as well, as I was being delivered, the second time, her rejection that I was not again a girl as we had apparently discussed in being her child again, I  which she said I had broken ‘our sacred promise.'  And as well the recent events that led up to being drowned earlier, in full detail, including part of the ride up to the Redwood Forest.    

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I also saw scenes from the world's future.   I was shown how Creation began and how it will be all be reset, at the appropriate time.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   My return was part of an agreement and understanding I had previously agreed to complete one or more tasks. I then understood what they were and given further instructions.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   Almost considered that I was agnostic, as, although I had accepted the Presence of Jesus, {Yeshua} at an early age, I did not accept my parent’s specific beliefs, especially my Pious father as my Parents were hard core Southern Baptist, ‘Hell, Fire and Brimstone’,  nor stories and/or Interpretation of the Bible that came from the churches I attended.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     However, even as I initially rejected my parents ‘Southern Baptist’ Christianity, I am definitely not into the  Common, Main Stream of Christian beliefs of most any group, as I have experienced conflicts with not only my parents believed, also with Main stream, as there are some Two Thousand variations, it is not this complex. I am comfortable with esoteric beliefs that I do have.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I am very spiritually connected to what I refer to as ‘Source’, completely accepting the Divinity of The Trinity, as, given what I was shown during the NDE, the experience solidified that the Bible has not been interpreted correctly, and/or most likely been modified by the religious facilities and agencies that governed at the time of the writings.  I was required to attend different ‘Christian’ Churches and ceremonies, and continued to attend, until I was released to go to church on my own. Many years later, found one that was more open, being it supported missionary activities around the world.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     In retrospect to both my age, that is my time on earth prior to the NDE, and the expansive scope of information I received, all that I was shown blended well together.   Given that this was very inconsistent with the Southern Babtist Teachings that I had been exposed to, albeit limited, strengthen my Faith and belief of God’s Character and the purpose of Creation. I am very comfortable in the experiences I have received, even as they may challenge mainstream religious views.     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Although I still feared my father and brother, as they did not seem to change. And, even though only some of the information was readily available, I was able  to reach out, beyond my circumstances, and pray to my benefactor, receiving validation that I mattered, that I was somehow connected to a higher plan, and, became aware of several gifts I had received, such as I could leave my body, and/or have visitations, to some degree, talk with Spirits, even if initially in my dreams, that allowed some of the information to be restored.

  I was also aware that I was either irritated and/or disappointed as to my circumstances and apparently chose not to talk for around two years. Also, my relationship changed with my mother in a way she was more mindful of my presence, although I believe this was more from her nearly losing me, as my attitude towards her changed, as it was apparent, I did make agreements with her and with God. I also became more curious as to why ‘The Church’ seems to have so many things wrong. 

  Of interest, when I was allowed to go to kindergarten, I was enrolled in Sept 1955, as I was not six, in September 1954 during the enrolment period. Then, I was suspended within a week or so, as I always paused to give thanks for a pint of milk and a package of graham crackers that was given by the Mayor of San Francisco, George Christopher, who owned Christopher Dairy. However, withing days after I had started, the New School Superintendent felt this was a violation of the US Constitution, that, apparently, The US Supreme Court had recently passed a ruling {which was not true}. However, this allowed as a time stamp of my NDE, as I was not very open at the time, still not talking or trusting of anyone, all adding to being a disruption in the classroom.  

  Thus, it is debatable whether my father pulled me from school, being a pious Christian and understanding the call to the principale's office,  as he received a letter that I was 'suspended from all public-school attendance,' and, as I was outside the room, as the two argued. I was ‘home schooled, for about two-one/half years, then put into a Private Baptist School, eventually becoming accepted by the principal {Minister}, however remaining an average student, I did share some of the information with the Reverend and he seemed skeptical yet intrigued.   

  As my brother spent time and effort in telling everyone I was useless and dumb, as his term was ‘moronic’, creating events that seemed to prove this, so ultimately, I did not have friends, and not really invited to play any of the neighborhood games. So, I was able to find ways to entertain myself, including calling out and asking for a higher level of understanding. I was gifted with a stellar imagination, in which I could recall and project more and more of the events shared on the Holographic Projection in front of me.

  Over time, I developed an interest in nature, how things worked, of chemistry experiments, after receiving a standard set, then, most specifically, gun powder, and similar concoctions that created significant alteration before I was  taught any of this  in school. I was able to learn how to make dun powder, amongst other things, from a local library, and also was able to obtain industrial chemicals from a warehouse and a mile or so from my house, as well as the local pharmacy. 

  Of course, this could have been the death of me, as I did make mistakes, however, I was protected for significant harm, as well as educated by a non-local, no physical source – I considered as My Angelic Guardian. I felt safe, even though I understood the danger of harm.    

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The voice was more felt than heard, like when I am talking to myself, it is inside, no volume pitch or tone, very firm and direct  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Although, initially, there was only the One Entity which I thought was God The Father, or Yahweh, then, I alternately considered that it was The Elohim, which, I understand to be the Trinity, Presenting Themselves as One Unit.

  However, as I was watching the Holographic presentations, I became aware of other events from both the past and the ‘Future’, where There were periods that I saw at first, I saw two, then a few dozen to ultimately, in a what may be the preparation for the judgment, in which there were billions – which included souls and Angels, some free to roam and others bound and isolated.   As well, I may not have seen this directly, or I should say clearly, however, I was made aware of conversations with Jesus {Yeshua}, and Lucifer {Satan}, especially recalling the conversation of Lucifer offering Jesus {Yeshua} all of the Kingdoms of the world, along with an understanding of what the temptation meant.     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Yes, I underwent an atypical review of my life’s experiences, which included three life times, as well as a period prior to becoming ‘my apparent current mother’s child,’ twice, as I had not survived an apparent flawed delivery earlier. This was verified by both my parents as the first baby was. Or would have been, a girl and I was born a boy. I was repeatedly told that I had violated my spiritual contract, and this apparently created significant turmoil within the family, especially as to my "worth", which may have led to my brother's actions. 

  •	As presented in the Hologram, My apparent lives

  o	1st ... as a judge; However, details were vague regarding my early life, and there was no specific reference to my mother or childhood other than I was adopted, by a lawyer, who later became a Judge, and I followed in his career path. However, after completing a judgement, I was shot with an arrow after I had left the town and bled out near a creek.

  o	2nd ... in my mother’s womb, however this ended during the birth – delivery process;

  o	3rd ... Again in my mother’s  womb this time a successful birth process of becoming this woman's baby again ... born on December 23rd, 1949    

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     In addition to the Entity that was in the same room as I was, as I was watching a Holographic Presentation that indicated that everything came from One Eternal Source, referred to as The Limitless Nothingness and/or 'Source of All Things.'  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Definitely experienced an Entity, I will call ‘God’, and in appearance, was very Majestic and was very much I received the impression that He/She in control. 

  I was aware that I was immediately standing in a veiled area, in front of a benevolent Entity, I can only refer to as 'Awesome, Impressive, and Imposing.'  It seemed I was momentarily looking at this scene as if I were still in my body ... and then … to my Surprise … It was My 'soul self' that was immediately aware that I was standing in front of ‘an Entity’ that was sitting on a very ornate thrown of Gold and Ivory. 

  The Entity was wearing a White Robe with a Golden belt around the waist, the hands and feet were bronze in color; There was an Aura or perhaps a Crown of Energy completely covering the face, as it extended from fully covering the top of the shoulders to 18'above what would be perceived as the top of the head, more a Cloud of Pearl White Energy from the top of the shoulders, which would cover a Crown, I suppose, if {S}he had one, which would seem appropriate, given the sense of Majestic Presence there was also a multi-colored rainbow, although more translucent, that surrounded the rest of His body, which seemed to sparkle, extending out from His/Her body. 

  •	I can refer to this as an Aura, that I have seen around the one that became my wife, which was many years later, when she momentarily appeared as an Angelic Presence. ... however, I felt the same reverence for her, when this occurred, around 1995.

  There was a constant flashing and sparking of faint color shifts, coming from the Entities form, yet I was not aware of any noise, only sensing varying vibrations. 

  This is more from what I was shown on a holographic Projection, of His/Her Creations and His/Her Kingdoms ,as it was only the two of Us in the Chambers.    

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   while I was in ‘God’ Chambers, watching the Hologram’s display, what I ‘experienced,’ was that I was being drawn in, being taken back to what I refer to as 'the beginning of the beginning, before the beginning began.' It was truly nothingness, an empty void, a complete darkness, prior to any events, yet I was allowed to be aware of an unseen ‘Presence’, that seemed to emanate a vibration and/or frequency of curiosity. In this I mean, there was no experiences, no emotions, no matter, ‘no God’, only, perhaps as much light as a candle from an intermittent spark that cycled on and off, not really being of much benefit, however, this is all that my consciousness was aware of, that is, I did realize that I was watching this, even as I felt I was, as well, totally enveloped into this total darkness. 

  I did sense an active awareness of like conversations that I can have with myself, within my mind, as I am working out a problem ... I had a sense of the infinite possibilities of outside of a hypothetical understanding anything and everything. it seemed that The Source, at the moment of becoming aware it was truly aware of nothingness, however, there was also a sense that there was something from before, still, this was completed and recorded, somewhere. Although,  even the sense of being aware of this seemed to be new.

  Then, an agreement with Self that it was going to actualize something from within to share the internal thoughts, and Three Beings were Created, however, One at a Time. 

  I accept these to be the Trinity.  For me, I was aware that I was still in ‘The Elohim’s Chambers’, so I  was not alone and had a limited, actual understanding of this companionship, and in fact, that  everything was hypothetical, so the point of Creation, at the different levels, was to obtain ‘Real Time Experiences’, rather that theoretical algorithms.

  I write this as honestly as I can, and also as my real experiences.    

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     There was substantial evidence that there is life after death and as well, reincarnation, in order to continue to resolve issues as well as learn new things. Also, in my experience, there’s seems to be like class rooms and/or training centers where ‘souls’ as shown what alternatives choices they may have had, and why the ones they made had unfortunate consequences, such as a premature death. Choice in returning to a new life seems to be an option, not sure if for all of the souls or selected ones, , however, and at least some can review who their parents will be, what possible experiences they may have. Some are allowed to recall some parts of the training, and/or prior life, at least during the first few years such as under six years.

  Quite an elaborate system.    

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Initially, as I was shown, there were separate cycles or phases, in which different projects were completed. At some point after the Earth was created, and the earth suffered several cycles in which other life forms were destroyed, there was an apparent remodel, and a new mankind, the first two humans were expressly created in the Elohim’s Image,  as companions. I was not shown much of the details as to what the differences were with other beings in heaven, only told that these ‘Humans’ were a hybrid of physical and spiritual beings and intended as ‘companions’ for both the Trinity and for the Source of Creation, which is also the Source of The Trinity, the Angels, the Stars, the Planets, and all things seen and unseen. 

  As I was previously also told something similar in the church, and/or from the readings in the Bible, that mankind was created differently, intended as companions, and given Free Will, apparently without restriction that may have been placed on other parts of Creations. 

  However, I was made aware of one Angel and/or group of angels that were possibly assigned to ‘test’ the obedience of Adam and Eve, and it was not so much that they ate of the fruit of the Fig Tree, it was that Adam not only hide from God, however, Adam also lied, several times, and this broke the intended bond and/or covenant. Since this was about an alteration of the original intention, and Free Will was still allowed, Adam and Eve were set up outside the Garden and provided everything they needed to thrive. However, soon enough, additional misuse of the Free will caused a disparity between Man, God, and The Earth, and this was allowed to spin out of control, albeit still being observed. From what I saw, all of this will reach a point where there is nothing else to learn, and the process will be started over, with new understandings, allowing for deeper bonds of companionship    

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is not an adequate term. I felt that I belonged, I was Home, I was embraced, I was at peace, I lacked any concerns or fears. 

  As I did not experience a feeling of being ‘loved’ while I was on Earth, I was not familiar with this term.     

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Changes in my values and beliefs  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Perhaps, with all these things, I have found that I am much more guarded, as it became unlikely in having any long-term friendships. I am not sure that this is really different given  my traumatic past.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Although I have maintained a significant clarity of what happened, in finite detail, I may not have had the proper words to describe some of the events that occurred, given that they believed it was my fault, especially as my brother was telling them that he was ashamed that he lost sight of me if only for a moment. As such, I did not feel obligated to tell them anyway, and actually did not talk for the better part of two years afterwards ... I would point and grunt.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  My experiences prior to the NDE were painful and traumatic, so my memories were mostly buried, other than my physical rejection at birth, in which I initially refused to breath, causing the doctors concerns, as well as other specific beatings, the majority of my childhood memories are spotty, even after I received counseling at later points in my life. However, I did spend some time learning hypnosis, that brought back some good times.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Although he first was having a mental, psychic connection with my mother, and over the years, I have had many ‘psychic’ experiences such as being made aware of future events,  ‘mind-melding’, that is mind to mind telepathy with another individuals, having spiritual visitations in which I was either warned to stay off a given path and/or needed assistance as I was being targeted by a demonic presence, comprehending some topics beyond and formal training. Also, I have guided lost souls back ‘home’, reconnected a soul mate that had passed suddenly and left someone behind they wanted to say goodbye. I developed an intuition of a dangerous event, such as a boiler, some equipment was about to explode, such as a steam boiler one time, an electric transformer another. I general, an awareness of preventing a major catastrophe, a loss of lives.  However, I would suggest that I was specifically guided to these events and provided the wisdom to address them, like I am a channel, or a tool being used. I have felt warnings over my ego accepting that I was responsible, I was led.

  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, given my mental state and the traumatic situation I was in, I doubt that I would still be alive. The experience gave me purpose to continue on, and I will add that I believe that I have accomplished all things that I was guided to do, short of publishing my story.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many times over the years, especially to Ministers and Health Care workers. One in particular, as I had suffered a nervous breakdown due to the deliberate efforts of a narcistic manager that was interested in destroying two of his employees who were on his executive staff. He succeeded with me, before he was removed. 

  As I filed a workman’s comp, I was interviewed by a ‘mental health examiner.’ and was coded on the DSMIV, as Bi Polar, and prescribed medication to take for some time. I assume that, with his training, he pretty much assumed that I had shared my parents personalities, and it was presumed that I  was tainted. Since this time, there is a lot of support that children are ‘negatively programed by dysfunctional families. One term for this is PTSD, another is Epi-Genetic Entanglement. Fortunately, over time and many, many visits to determine my ‘sanity’, the stain was removed from my records. In a way, this did allow me to tell each of them about my NDE, my upbringing and my relationship with Source. Even if the Mental Health Professional was atheist and/or agnostic, they accepted that I had this experience. 

  With this, as I trained for and became certified in ‘coaching people’ as Well as becoming an ‘Ordained Minister’, I have shared my story, sometimes beginning with ‘What if the Story of Adam and Eve was Flawed?’ And to some extent, I would begin to share what I saw. Especially as my mother’s mental health seemed to have been affected by her upbringing in that women were defective and guilty of bring down humanity. Given my experiences, I chose to see this as false.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I will say Yes, as my mother made it very clear that, in her mind, I was the soul of the girl baby she had lost.

  So, the experience gave credibility to other things both my parents told me, as well as what I later experienced, which at time could have easily been either spooky of grounds for insanity {and I considered both, until I spoke with others that validated their own spiritual encounters.    

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Immediately afterwards, I was very cloistered and withdrawn in my mind, however, as my awareness of many things had expanded, I processed many things at a rapid rate, and I understood many of the events as a guess, I felt like I was a chameleon, which is a term I began to use. 

  I accepted this as evidence of my journey. For some time, I was confused as to why life continued to be difficult, however, there were times that I believed my father was possessed by a dark influence, such as when he began beating me and apparently could not stop, as my mother intervened with 'Enough'. 

  As an example, as he was shaving, with a straight edge razor. I was a bit startled as his eyes turned black, and there was no reflection of any light in them. As he grabbed his left with the right arm, he told me to run, and repeated this by adding, 'You need to run now, and hide, I need to cut your throat, I can-not stop myself.'  I cannot recall a time that I was in more fear, not necessary for my life, more for the consequences of his life, if he actually went further with his thoughts. I considered that he may have turned it on himself.

  And so I did run out of the house, and hid, [perhaps behind a car, across the street and stayed there, watching, until I believe my mother came after me and simply said, 'you need to be careful how you look at your father. Your head was bent down, and you were looking over your eyebrows. I would be best that you never do that again.'

  'Dinner is ready, I will walk you in.'    

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe the total experience was very real, adding the consideration of recalling these events, along with sensing that my mother rejected me at my second birth as I was born a boy, or Male and this was an apparent violation of some agreement. This story was repeated to me many times and over many years, even if these things may have been implanted somehow in my brain while she was changing my diapers, telling me that my exposed appendage should not be there and adding the consideration of what my mother was saying, about ‘arranging for my release, in Heaven.’ 

  I do not believe Neuro Science would offer support for my brain to be that developed, let say, just short of six years old, to be able to create a complex story, rather that, it was told to me repeatedly.

  Also, at the time, I was pretty much regulated to believe that I was not very ‘bright’, at least in comparison to my ‘genius brother’, and again, I do not believe even he would have created such an elaborate story, and continue to add to it, especially given the number of times I should have been killed. I ask, in brevity, you just except my life has been mindboggling. 

  In addition, there is an extreme number of continued experiences within the realm of angels, my meetings with Yeshua, or Jesus, on more than one occasion for any of this to be some sort of fabrication on my part. Perhaps just as ridiculous that a million monkeys, on a million typewriters, over a million years, can write War and Peace’, {‘The infinite monkey theorem,’ which I believe is meant to explain why God does not need to exist}    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   To start, as I have reviewed the Holographic Presentations as well as my visit to heaven several times, I recalled that I was made aware of past reincarnations. Also, I have at least two physical visitations from Yeshua to answer additional questions I had, and or provide clarity on what I have seen. As well as several as part of an OBE’s, in which I was in s universe, just exploring, once been brought to a Council of Twelve Angels, where I have apparently crossed a line, allowing a demonic presence entre my family dwelling, and ‘needed to be reminded to be careful;’ Adding to this, there have been several, more personal Demonic Visitations and/or attacks, in which one was being dragging down to the abyss, intending to shake my beliefs on what I know and have seen, as truth. Although a bit different, I have seen images that resided in others, indicating they were ‘being influenced’ and should not be trusted.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I mention tis as my mother had said that I was brought into the family to resolve the apparent ‘curse.’

  I will start by sharing that my mother believed that she was either a reincarnation of and /or the Essence of Eve, as mentioned in the Bible, and she had been falsely accused of wrongdoing. With this, I was reminded that the purpose in being born into her family was to change the circumstances, by being the 1st born as a girl. However, as this ‘plan’ failed, I was born a boy, which was the substance of my betrayal, she was doomed. as she either had chosen and/or it had been somehow decided that this was her ‘last chance’ to ‘break the cycle.’ 

  At the time I was told this, it was prior to the NDE, and as I recall, it was apparently confirmed by my father, as least this was ‘Her’ belief. And also, I did not believe I had the mental bandwidth to fully understand it all, other than I had somehow disappointed her. 

  However, during the NDE, especially as I was shown the specific events on what happened in the Garden of Eden, which provided evidence that Eve was not at fault.  One of my questions was if what my mother had told me was in fact true, on wither one or both counts. There seemed be a bit of a laugh, or this is the way I received it, along with a response of 'Well, if this is what your mother said, Who Am I to disagree with Her?' Adding, now you have a better idea as to what your purpose is in her life, and that is to resolve her guilt and remorse, especially if ‘she was not at fault, would you not agree?' As this did not directly answer my question and as I added to my curiosity as to what I was supposed to do, I accepted that I would be guided forward on a resolve, which I ultimately was.    

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None at this time.  I will offer that if You find any information unclear and or have additional questions, I ask that you contact me.  Thank you for providing me with this opportunity.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1larry_m_nde.html