{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1larry_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Larry S NDE 3152","mylang":"de"}
          	        Larry S NDE 3152  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Larry S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1246 Larry S NDE 3152  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I experienced a massive heart attack that started at a nearby golf course (five miles from hospital). I was clutching my chest in my car realizing this was a heart attack probably from smoking and genetics. I decided to drive myself to the hospital. The pain felt like a pick-axe being struck to my sternum and I remember about half of the drive to the hospital.

At the time, I was a State Police officer and was familiar with the emergency room and drove into the lot, locked my car and staggered into the waiting room. I collapsed in a chair and announced I was having a heart attack.

I was rushed into the emergency room and several people were removing my clothes, putting IVs in, and asking questions like when did this start. I gave them the phone number for my wife and could hear a person saying your husband is having a heart attack.

I remember being wheeled into an elevator and being rolled down a hallway. I was apologizing to the doctor for not answering his questions but that this really, really hurt.

The next instant I was standing in a hallway or a breezeway. The lighting was dim and I could see a man ahead of me wearing a very nice business suit and overcoat. He was also wearing a nice hat like a successful business man would wear. I was sure I did not know this person but started to walk towards him. As I walked, I remember telling myself, 'Don't forget this.' Approximately halfway to him, I had an uncontrollable urge to open my eyes. When I did, a nurse was in my face shaking and shouting, 'Larry! Larry! Larry!' When she noticed my eyes open, she told me in a relieved voice that they had lost me and had hit my chest and then shocked me twice to bring me back. Because of my police training, I was aware she had shaken and shouted to an unconscious person. My response to her was 'cool'.

I had no pain after I lost consciousness and after being revived, of course a Demerol drip helped.

Apparently A major artery to the top of my heart was blocked and the clot buster blew thirty percent of it out and I went into fibrillation. I had burn marks on my chest and back from the shock. I also received a damaged left rotator cuff from the shocking.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  03/06/1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Other massive heart attack  Cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the time I was in the breeze way going to the stranger.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     As described, it was a hallway or breezeway that seemed incomplete.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Now that I think about it, the vision was in black and white. It was clear enough for a dim lighting view. I also never saw the person's face or felt I knew him. I also remember that there were no peripheral objects, only a solid walkway and a wall to my left. Open space to my right with nothing in it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     As described before, a well-dressed stranger.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At the time, I felt no unusual emotions. Just the awareness of me telling myself not to forget this.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The meaningful part was the survival. I'm convinced it's an example to be shared with others to help prevent heart attacks.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    That day I shared the experience with my family. My mother thought that the stranger might have been my deceased grandfather. We are all Christians and the response was one of acceptance without a clear understanding of the meaning.  I have subsequently told many people about my total heart attack experience. I was told that due to the severity of my heart attack, less than twenty-five percent survive even in the hospital. I feel that I should share so that others will heed early signs and get treatment.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read or heard about near death experiences. At first, I was concerned that I didn't see the 'bright light'. I talked with a psychologist for about a year and we concluded about the light. I'm comfortable that it meant I had more work to do on my Christianity.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was very clear to me then and now that I experienced the event. It was not like a dream that when you wake your recollection is disjointed and nonsensical. For me it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened eight years ago and I remember it like it just happened. It was a significant event in my life unlike any other.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1larry_s_nde.html