{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lana_c_fde.html","mytitle":"Lana C FDE 4438","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lana C FDE 4438  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lana C FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			2130 Lana C FDE 4438  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I am going to send it to you as a word document. It's a long story and I've written it just two months ago, it's taken me this long to come out with it:

It's taken me far too long to tell this story. I told my husband, daughter and mother immediately but other than that, I kept it to myself for two and a half years. I just told a few people at that time. It's been over five years and I should have told this many years ago.

Wednesday, April 21, 2004:

I told my husband that I had a feeling that I was going to be extremely lucky on Friday. His response was, 'Yeah, right. 'I said, 'No, I really mean it. I feel like I'm going to be extremely lucky on Friday, I mean really lucky! I have a feeling I might win the lottery or something.' I won the lottery all right, but not in a way anyone could imagine.

Friday, April 23, 2004:

I left work at United Airlines around 1:00 pm. There was construction on the interstate, and I found myself frustrated because everyone was passing me. I thought 'Don't they know they are supposed to go slow in a construction zone?' All of a sudden, I was taken out of existence. It was as if I were not on this planet, didn't exist, whatever you want to call it - I was not a part of the life zooming past me on I-85. I had no vision whatsoever. I heard the flutter of wings, like the sound of a flock of birds taking off. I looked to my right to see what the noise was. I saw about thirty to forty angels descending from the sky. They descended so smoothly. They were all talking amongst themselves, so I couldn't understand what they were saying. It was like when a crowd of people is talking, and you can't make out what they are saying because too many people are talking at once. Their magnificence was like nothing I had ever witnessed. Their wings had hues of blue and purple with the tips turning more of a silvery white. They were very statuesque, lined up in two rows in a strong protective stance. Their faces were distorted. In the distance far behind them, I saw an orange/yellow glow. No introduction was needed; I knew immediately that it was the Lord. The love that flowed from Him was beyond measure. In those split seconds, I sensed His love for not only me, but His love for His angels and enormous pride in their job-well-done. My whole body was consumed with love and comfort beyond anything that a human can express to another. The best way to describe it is a feeling of total love, comfort, warmth and security. At that time, I heard the angels all gasping in unison. That was when I came back into existence. I was headed right into the back of a flatbed eighteen-wheeler that had a small bulldozer attached to the back of the truck. I thought, 'Oh crap, I'm about to hit this truck.' I swerved right and clipped the backside of the truck. I almost missed it!! The engine came up through the floorboard of my little RAV4 and almost severed my foot completely. I got out of the truck and started walking down the interstate. I wondered why I was walking funny, looked down and I was walking on the stump of my leg, with my foot pushed up toward the side of my leg. The shock of what I had just witnessed and of what had just happened was incredible. By now, people had begun to come to my aid. I wanted to ask them, 'Did you just see what I saw?' I had a feeling they didn't.

I was losing blood fast and trying to hang on to consciousness. There was a black man and a white man that immediately went to work on my leg. They cut my pantyhose off and tied a tourniquet around my leg. This sounds crazy but I remember thinking, 'That black man does not care that he has my blood on him.' In an exceptionally unselfish act, they had no gloves to protect themselves from my blood that covered them. A nice, compassionate lady also stopped to help. I could tell by her expression that I was in trouble. All I kept saying was 'Someone please help me, I have a little girl at home.' I must have said it a million times.

I was taken to a trauma hospital in Atlanta. While in the ambulance, the attendant told me, 'I don't know if you realize how lucky you are, those two guys that helped you were from the Fairburn Fire and Rescue.' They just happened to be on their lunch break at the same time, same place, as me. What are the odds of that? She said 'Another thing, Medical Flight was ordered but you got lucky, someone just declined this ambulance just one exit away and they sent us down for you.' Had those two men not been there, I probably would have bled to death before the ambulance got there. It was all in place for me to survive that day. I know in my heart that it was no coincidence and I have my heavenly Father to thank.

While in the hospital, a chaplain came by my room to talk to me. I asked him, 'Why do you go around to each room?' He said, 'It's because you are on the trauma floor and most people who have gone through trauma need to talk to someone.' I started crying and said, 'I saw Him.' I told him my story and he said, 'I've heard that many times before, of course not the exact same story, but similar stories with the same result.' His last words to me were 'Whatever you do, don't keep this story to yourself.'

That summer 'I Can Only Imagine' by Mercy Me was constantly on the radio. How appropriate! I'm telling my story so all will know our Father is real and His love is beyond anything we could ever imagine.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'April 23, 2004'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was involved in a car accident. My foot was almost severed.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at the highest level when I witnessed my guardian angels and saw the Lord. The love that flowed from him was beyond anything we can imagine.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors of the angels were the most beautiful. I've since looked around to find something that compares to the same colors and I can't find it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A yellow/orange glow that radiated love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The orange/yellow glow in the far distance behind the angels.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love and pride. Love for me, His angels, and His pride for His angels. I felt a total feeling of love, warmth, security. I wanted to stay in His glow.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I listen to Christian radio, wear a cross necklace, pray more often.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I listen to Christian radio, wear a cross necklace, pray more often.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am closer to God.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I only told my immediate family at first, I waited over two years to tell anyone else. I am just now able to talk about it without crying. I was afraid no one would believe me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        This happened before I crashed the car. I know how scientists like to say it's due to injury that our bodies dream these dreams. I saw all of this BEFORE I was injured.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I only told my immediate family at first and waited two and half years to tell anyone. I only told a few people at that time. I've just started to tell it in the last two months.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew when it happened that it was real. I wanted to ask the people that stopped to help me, did they see what I saw.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have never doubted for one second the validity of what I witnessed. It was real; I know it my heart that it was all in place for me to survive that day. There were too many coincidences that cannot be explained.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       If I could change that day all over again, I would not change a thing. To get a glimpse of his glory was worth all the suffering.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lana_c_fde.html