{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1larry_nde_3817.html","mytitle":"Larry NDE 3817","mylang":"de"}
          	        Larry NDE 3817  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Larry NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1792 Larry NDE 3817  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I watched myself fall in a kind of slow motion event but I was viewing it from above my opponent's right shoulder, about two or three feet above him. The light that was in the room was different, more luminous but not brighter. The detail of everything around me was incredible. It was like my skin was a sponge, that is to say that I could see in depth I couldn't before. I was completely at peace as I watched this and had no remorse whatsoever. My girlfriend then rushed over to me (the rest of the class was sitting on the floor waiting and watching the fight). She was crying and got down on her knees next to my head and cradled my head in her lap.

I didn't understand why she was so upset. I looked at my body lying there and only saw it as an empty shell and had no feelings for it whatsoever. I then felt the need to go back into my body because she was so distraught.

I woke up and didn't know what happened at first. She helped me up and my teacher told me to go wash as I had blood on my face. She helped me to the shower and I was totally unaware of who she was. She asked me if I knew who she was, and I replied that I didn't but I would like to, (she was so pretty).

When I came back out to the dojo I was still confused and didn't recognize the changes that had taken place in the dojo's construction. (Marty, the new teacher had added an office to the once single room.) I asked where Jerry was (he was my old teacher who had gone back to Japan three months earlier). Marty told me to stop acting stupid and to go and sit on the floor by the door.

It was a warm summer's night and we had the door open. As I sat there watching the class, a praying mantis walked into the dojo and sat in front of me. I felt that this was the long dead Master of the style that I studied, (I know this sounds weird but it was such a strong feeling). Someone noticed the insect and yelled and the teacher came over and showed us how the praying mantis fights by taking a pencil and attacking it with it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   My Karate teacher and I were sparring and he hit me with a spinning reverse open hand strike to the forehead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just after the strike to my head as I saw my body falling.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     As I watched my girlfriend crying, holding me it was as if there was no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There were far more colors and detail was intense. I could see the hairs on my arms as individual, my pores as also individual, I don't remember any shadows.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sound was richer but not louder.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and puzzlement about what the big deal was about the shell of me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I always had doubts as to God etc., but after that I understood that we are all just small things tied together in a wholeness.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I always had doubts as to God etc., but after that I understood that we are all just small things tied together in a wholeness.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The complete saturation of detail, I was looking at myself from above the guy that hit me. I was on the floor of the dojo and the light of the place was more. I could see every pore in my skin with such detail and I felt completely at peace!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can read palms now. I also can see ghosts sometimes.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Many years, maybe ten or so. It was always received with a kind of disbelief.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was too real to disbelieve.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know now that there is something else except this life waiting. I felt it and briefly experienced it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1larry_nde_3817.html