{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lana_l_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Lana L Possible NDE 7038","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lana L Possible NDE 7038  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lana L Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3577 Lana L Possible NDE 7038  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It happened sometime between the anesthesia administration and my awakening.  I’m not aware of any complications during surgery. 

During this time, I felt very loved, comprehended and supported.  I didn't see a thing; everything was just perception and feelings.  Words are a very limited source for describing.  The type of love perceived was infinite, unconditional, intimate, of a paternal and maternal nature, but multiplied infinitely.  That love knew me completely from the inside. It was very patient, with no limits, tender, which felt as if I was being held in cotton balls. I felt that life really took care of me and protected me. I felt as if I was sitting on His lap, although I didn't have any perception of time or space, or even of my body. 

As soon as I had a question or doubt in me, it was answered with a tranquil response.  I was totally accepted with no judgment. I was being me. Something surrounded me with tender love; there was a dialogue between us, but with no words, it was a dialogue of feelings.  Even though I was me, the limit between that Something and me was not defined, mainly because of the knowledge within me: a complete and absolute knowledge.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1990

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.  Surgery-relatedWhile under general anesthesia    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   The doctor did not mention any dangerous situation during the intervention.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   More consciousness of my own emotions and more sensitivity to perceive what I was receiving.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While the experience lasted.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist as a succession, everything was that moment.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It wasn't a vision, but a totally different kind of experience of whatever I had experienced before or after.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could not hear anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I would describe it more as a state of being, or a space empty of images and sound; but full of a positive feeling that surrounded and sustained me.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, gratitude, peace, accepting, comprehension

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     The experience was centered in the comprehension of the relation between that Something that surrounded me and I.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Creyente aunque no practicante

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pay more attention to the spiritual side.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Creyente, mayor espiritualidad

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Consistente respecto a la existencia de una Ser superior, pero alejado de la imagen de juez, ya que habia una aceptación total de mi con todos mis defectos

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I felt His presence that sustained me.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     Durante la experiencia sentía un sensación de familiaridad, o naturalidad, como algo ya conocido por mí

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Aunque yo era yo, por momentos los límites entre esa presencia y yo se volvían difusos

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Durante la experiencia sentí que un espíritu o ser superior existe, el amor, la aceptación, la comprensión y el conocimiento que yo percibía en él no pertenecen a la condición humana

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     Lo que yo percibía era que lo único importante es el amor

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Uncertain     Estrictamente hablando, de la experiencia no tengo seguridad de la existencia de vida después de la muerte, pero sí de que nuestro espíritu o esencia puede interactuar en otro plano, es decir percibir, sentir, comunicarse, etc. sin la necesidad de un cuer

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Lo que yo percibía era que lo único importante es el amor

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I have become more confident in that things develop as they should. During difficult situations I have prayed to God. I have made drastic decisions with optimism and confidence, and I now follow my interior voice. Also, I am more tolerant.  Moderate changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   When trying to explain the type of love, it is not possible to describe it accurately.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   No tengo buena memoria en general, pero de esta experiencia tengo recuerdo vívido de lo que sentí

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        What I perceived was that the only important thing is love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with family members a little while after it had happened.  Their reaction was silent or linked it to the anesthesia.  I don’t know if they have been influenced by my experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Strictly speaking, from the experience I don’t know of the existence of life after death, but I am certain that our spirit can interact in another plane, like perceiving, feeling, and communicating without the need of a material body. During the experience, I felt the existence of a superior being, of love, acceptance, comprehension and the knowledge that I perceived from Him does not belong to the human condition.  I felt a sensation of familiarity, or naturalness, like something that I already knew.  Even though I was me, at times the limits between His presence and me turned diffused.  The experience was consistent in respect to the existence of a superior being, but away from the image of a judge, because He accepted me with all my defects. I don’t have a good memory in general, but of this experience, I have a vivid memory of what I felt.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lana_l_possible_nde.html