{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lamar_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Lamar Possible NDE 7518","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lamar Possible NDE 7518  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lamar Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3840 Lamar Possible NDE 7518  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After trying to commit suicide due to my depressive condition resulting from a catastrophic life as a couple, I started to have a fulminating and medicinal hepatitis. 

The tests and prognosis of the doctors were leading me into an urgent liver transplant from an 80 year old donor. 15 minutes before the planned surgery, the surgeon, while meeting with his assistants, to prepare organizing the transplant, and seeing the latest tests, he stopped the intervention, as my liver showed an exceptional condition of remission. Back in the intensive unit, I was told that my organ was regenerating.

Coming back to my experience; during 8 days of a hepatic coma, I was traveling in a world of natural rationality, a calming well-being, a feeling of universal knowledge. It was as if I had the chance to manage my future and to be able to do or see whatever I wanted to. Without any time constraint I saw my daughter, (while at present I still have no children), in her future and modern world. I experienced my burial, hearing old women saying, while they were washing me, 'dying young, you have to get used to'; my best friend attacking me in telling me, that I had nothing to do there. This same friend, I then discovered dead, due to a stroke, at his home when I came back from hospital. There are too many feelings that I can't verbalize here. What I'm writing is just the witness of a ghost who is writing on a site. My experience was impossible to write/describe.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  29/01/2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Suicide attempt.       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Depression, resulting in a suicide attempt.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My wife talking to me, and who later told me that I tried to speak, but that no sound came out of my mouth. Besides when I spoke I heard my voice like with interference.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I'm learning every day from my consciousness, I have the impression to see myself evolve from outside.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I discovered the corpse of my dead friend at his home, after leaving the hospital.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was living through a cycle of days and nights, only my day was repeating every morning and I had to change my decisions in order to evolve. During the night I set off again into many universes and future time periods.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     During this experience my vision was hazy. I tried to see with my eyes, but I only got light and silhouettes, voices that I heard.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard and recognized voices, but they had been mixed with noises, either of a crowd, or a machine, or wind, or rain.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My best friend whom, together with the firemen I discovered dead from a stroke at his home, after my leaving the hospital.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     A logical and evident world but requires discovering.

The experience included:       Hellish imagery

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, confidence, I knew that I would come back; I was just in an enigma that I had to resolve.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Cannot be explained, everything seemed logical and innate.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     My daughter, depressed and drugged, who suffered because she never knew me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was forced to.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     My beliefs blurred my convictions.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Energy

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Our interior God.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   I don't feel a psychic

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     The mental is constructed, the innate is elsewhere.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     A spiritual life, an energy that you carry but which is not expressed in a physical way.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It's the energy.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life. I became aware of the importance and the power of altruism in a spiritual way. The human impact is an immediate factor that corrects itself or erases with the spiritual action. Love is a word that has to be lived.     Large changes in my life. I became aware of the importance and the power of altruism in a spiritual way. The human impact is an immediate factor that corrects itself or erases with the spiritual action. Love is a word that has to be lived.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I cannot communicate this experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The words about these feelings do not exist in a dictionary.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was detected as exceptionally gifted.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The unexplained power of remission of the body in a certain state of mind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my wife, but she pretends to believe me to calm me down.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     A feeling and not a reflection.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Some dreams

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       To realize that we carry a power that exceeds all humanity and what is joining nature. We are an integral part of it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Too long, but it allows to see if the persons concerned are sincerely motivated to express their experience.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lamar_possible_nde.html