{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lani_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Lani K NDE 7057","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lani K NDE 7057  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lani K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3555 Lani K NDE 7057  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Though it was many years ago (1994), I normally dream about the accident once or twice a year. I don't fully remember everything in its entirety. After not having much sleep the night before, I decided to drive first shift, beginning at 4:30 A M. Close to 6:00 A M, my boyfriend and other friend drifted off to sleep, leaving me to keep myself awake. The sun was rising because I reached for my sunglasses. Within 10 minutes, maybe less, I hit an open trailer without construction equipment and upon impact, I passed out as we flipped and rolled and slid. The same truck, I had previously passed going 70 MPH, but the trucker told us he saw me decline in speed and run off the road. I over-corrected, and that's when we hit him. 

The next thing I remember was a feeling of floating and peace. I'm certain there was a lot of noise from the car crashing, but I didn't hear any of it. It seemed as though I was in a peaceful, dark tunnel. Upon the SUV stopping, I laid upside-down with my seat belt still on. When I came 'back to life', my boyfriend was screaming my name! 

That's when we realized the SUV had landed on my hand. Thank God, we landed on grass, or my left hand could have been gone. The emergency medical technicians used the Jaws of Life to free me and then take me to the hospital. We were released that day. I've had daily pain ever since, but the emergency room doctors couldn't understand how we weren't dead. The wrecker/tow truck man told me that I'd better be on my knees TONIGHT because God had a bigger plan for me. I should have most definitely died. Wow, I've never forgotten it. Physically, I have a lot of pain every day, but I work and manage as I can. Spiritually, I see, hear, and experience things like I never have before. Some call it a gift, but most days it's relentless. I'm not certain if that day I met God, Jesus, or angels, but as I flowed through the tunnel or whatever it was, it was the most calm and peaceful I'd been in my existence. I'm much closer to God now than ever, as daily prayer helps to bring me back to that place of peacefulness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   We had a major car accident. The SUV flipped, rolling several times and eventually sliding into a guard rail that stopped us from going into on-coming traffic on the other side of the interstate.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I'm not 100% certain if I did or did not.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During and after the accident, my alertness was different than it had been before. I perceived life differently. Yes, it's hard to explain but maybe more alert?

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt as though I was gone years.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     That's interesting. I have constant Auras now because of extreme migraines, and it's hard to think of my vision before the accident. Perception is more alert and vivid, but my actually vision has lessened since the accident.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing is the opposite effect. It's completely intensified to where I laugh and say: I have the hearing of a dog!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I can't fully remember, but I don't believe I did.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I didn't have any emotions except complete peace and happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     Not during the accident itself.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I came to as I was still inside the tunnel.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   I was an active spiritual Christian but also a selfish 23 year old. Not as close to God as I am now.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Closer in my faith and God.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     It was very intense. Everytime I dream about it, I relive all over again.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My faith is stronger!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I'm not sure what I heard.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I didn't feel alone but I'm not sure if I met God.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably existsÂ

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. Many, many changes have happened in my life, since the accident. I'm not certain I have enough time to explain.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I'm very cautious of people and with whom I spend my time. I have to trust people before I tell them this side of my life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   So many things happened at once, and I had only passed out for 20 minutes. I felt like I had been gone for many years. It's very strange to try to explain.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Before my accident, I inherited from my mother: intuition, premonitions, and a slight '6th sense'. Since the accident and most recently in the last 3-5 years, I've seen, spoken to, and prayed away many unknown entities. These are the many 'changes' I spoke of in the previous questions. Though I have Auras, my peripheral vision has greatly intensified, and I see 'out of the corner of my eyes' very well which is creepy most days.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not really. I'd say the entire experience was incredible.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've only begun sharing this with close friends in the last 5 years. My younger sister was the only one I told until then.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The more I dream about it, the more real it becomes.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Long road trips: I almost become paranoid, and sometimes, it's better if I drive alone. Then I know all responsibility is on me to stay alert!

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is, but I could write for days and bore everyone.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lani_k_nde.html