{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kyle_w_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kyle W Probable NDE 6873","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kyle W Probable NDE 6873  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kyle W Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3438 Kyle W Probable NDE 6873  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Before the experience, I had been huffing gas regularly for one year.  After my first near death experience in 2010, I quit for three months.  I picked up the habit again and finally I had another near death experience.  I then quit for a whole year in 2011.  I had two more and finally quit for good in 2013.   

During the first experience, I found myself slowly drifting out of consciousness until I was completely in a void of darkness.   I had no sense of time or space.  I watched as a bright light came out of the darkness toward me. I joined with the light.  Then I became conscious and found myself on the ground.

The second near death experience built upon the first.  This time, after I had joined with the light, I noticed how everything came to be.  There was nothing in the void.  All of a sudden, the light was created from the void.  Then I came back to consciousness, lying in my bed, and not knowing how I had got there. 

The third experience built upon the other two.  I found myself alone in the darkness. I was the one particle of light in the void.  I became lonely and bored, so I split myself into two parts.  Then I split into four parts, then eight parts, and then sixteen parts.  I kept doubling myself, repeatedly, until I became everything and everyone.  I came back to consciousness from being passed out in the driveway.

The fourth and final time I had passed out on one side of my body.  I was still awake on the other half.  I was dead but awake.  My vision on one side had been turned to the void.  I could think on one side of my brain but was dead on the other side.  I physically walked through the door of the house on one side, but on the other side of my body, I felt as if though I had traveled through space and time.  I felt that I would never be able to return to my body.  Then the live half of me took over the void.  I became one again. I was dead but alive at the same time. 

Later, I tried to commit suicide.  Everything went black.  No light had appeared.  There was pure darkness.  I came back to consciousness two days later at home.  I did not know what had happened before or after I tried to commit suicide. Apparently, I was awake and talking to people.  I don't remember anything like that happening.  I don't remember any events that happened two days prior or after.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2010-2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Other: Passed out huffing gas and stopped breathing  My brain had been starved of oxygen and I was about to die from hypoxia.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw the end of all time and it was so pointless. It didn't have an effect on anything, it was so pointless. I laughed.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During this time I was not just me. I was everyone and everything. I do not know who or what or how and I don't remember every detail.  I knew everything and I laughed every time I came back to consciousness.  I was saying to myself, I understand. I finally get it.  Then I would forget what I had finally understood but it was so simple and pointless, it was funny.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I became everyone and everything.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time in the void. Then the light came and time went slow. And it speed up faster and faster until I came to.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was as if I saw everything on a smaller scale or a smaller level.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was like internal dialog.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed from the void into the light and became one with the light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was the light I passed into.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I saw a place where two lines one on top and one on bottom interacted with each other and divided into separate beings.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Euphoria.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew everything.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     The world had ended and no one laughed but me. I was spared and began where I had left off at.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I was a devout catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I no longer attend a church.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   I got re-baptized after 4 nde's from huffing gas and one from a suicide attempt   due to a major change in my beliefs i became undecided

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     What i came to believe was so different than what i had previously believed that i changed my believes to solipsism and later left behind solipsism and made my own believes

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe we are all God.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard a voice I could not identify as my own or someone else's.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   previous to all these event before i became a catholic i saw Jesus but during the actual event i have no idea if i did not

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I existed before this life and will continue to exist after this life

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     yes all is one and all is nothing

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God does exist but he is everyone we are all God we are created of him without him we would not be made God exist we are all God

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told I must live amongst the darkness to bring light.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     to worship God God being yourself and everyone else love your neighbor as yourself do onto others as you would have them do onto you what so ever you do to the leas of my people that so you do unto me

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     i found that after you die you start back where you left off and that in other reality's you die but only to those still livening

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     there has to be balance Good evil right wrong in actuality there is no devil it is all made of God but everything has to be balance in order to survive

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     to love another is to love yourself and come to terms with yourself

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Nightmares of being haunted in my sleep while consciously dreaming.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is hard to put it into words rather than glimpses of thoughts and images in my head.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have conscious dreams now when I'm asleep.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        In the end it is all meaningless.  We as humans have been created in our own image. We are God split into separate beings.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They all deny the possibility of my account and say such a thing is impossible. They all say you cannot make something from nothing. When I tell them that the light came from the darkness they do not comprehend it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was so real I could not pass it off as fake.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My experience was real and I have affirmed my beliefs though everything spanning from religion to science to physics and so forth. It all says the same thing. All is one and it keeps expanding but is still the same thing it was in the beginning

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had things relayed in my dreams.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kyle_w_probable_nde.html