{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1lacy_nde.html","mytitle":"Lacy NDE 6196","mylang":"de"}
          	        Lacy NDE 6196  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Lacy NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2953 Lacy NDE 6196  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was 5 or 6 years old. I was having chronic problems with my health. No one knew what was wrong. Then one night, I was lying on the living room couch, watching a cartoon. As I was lying there, I was eating a blue Popsicle. Unable to eat much because of my unknown illness, at that time I lived off liquids. I soon finished up and lay back down. I was watching the cartoon, but I felt very, very tired. I didn't want to go to bed. My mom looked at me and asked if I felt OK. I told her I was tired. She suggested I go to bed. I told her I'd go after the cartoon. Something didn't want me to go to sleep that night. 

As I kept watching, I heard my mom and dad begin fighting about my health. My dad said I only had a bug and that my mom should move on. Mom insisted I go to the hospital. So my grandma took us to the hospital, and after tests, we found out I had E. coli bacteria in my bladder, urethra and my weak, and only, kidney. I nearly died twice in that emergency room, but I only remember seeing black and that's it. 

However, during the surgery that I had a month after, I died yet again, and this time it was different. I remember it very well. At first, it was black then vision came in. The first thing I noticed was that I was warm and at peace. I was wearing a thin, white, strapless sundress. I was swinging on a tree-swing that was in a meadow full of tall, golden grass. Around me was a thick green forest full of different trees. Everything had a golden haze, like you might see in the early morning in the woods; all misty and warm. Nothing I've ever seen before. As I was swinging, I was smiling and laughing. On my left was a white tiger and the right, a white wolf. They just lay there, enjoying the moment. Then I woke up in the middle of the operation. Of course, the medical team freaked out. I had a good laugh, but later I found out that I had died for a little bit during the operation, and they had almost lost me. I didn't know what happened but according to my mom, the doctor told her that I had died for at least two minutes and they had a hard time bringing me back.

Ever since, I always have believed I went to the spirit world for a few moments, while they tried to revive me. I never forgot that day in the operating room. It's very hard to get that out of my head. It felt so real.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness. Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a life-threatening illness. I had developed an E. coli bacterial infection that had spread to the majority of my body. The surgeons were also repairing my urethra.  I was born with it disconnected and lived four of my little life years with it that way, which is how I came down with the bacterial infection.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Well the experience over there lasted what felt like 2 to 4 minutes, but when I woke up, I estimated I was there for 15 minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well, during the near-death experience, everything seemed more clear and brighter than here. I was able to see everything in great detail.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was a bit sharper than here.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I'm not sure if I did.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       This is very hard. If I had to make a list of words to describe my feelings as close as I can, it would be, awareness, warm, loving, unearthly, beautiful, peaceful, happy, and joy. That is just a speck of what I felt.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   My mom was Mormon and most of my family. She would force me to church every sunday. I didnt believe nor do I still believe in that religion. I always had a deep feeling of who I should believe in when I was little. Like a link you can say to parts of info that I dont know. So in other words I know who to worshup, but did not know who they were or did not know the info that I felt that I had that was just a little out of reach.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It certainly woke me up and to realize there was more out there than a God. My views have stretched out. I was never a Christian but my experiences definitely made me believe differently than a Christian.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I am Wiccan/Kemetic. Im not full blown Kemetic, but I believe in alot of thier ways and gods and goddesses.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Nothing in the bible said that childran will go to a fild with a wolf and tiger. It said that childran will go strait to heaven but I was in a sorta temperary holding place. Like to see what will happen. Eather I go back home or go back to my broken body.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I started to believe there is another world out there full of forgiving and happiness.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I did not hear any voices but I saw the tiger and wolf.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are loved by all things. We are never alone rather we know it not. We are all connected in some form or way from here and or the afterlife. It is around us and with us. The afterlife is diffrent from this world yet not. We have what we have here in the

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     It was awarness, a feeling. It surly changed how I see things today.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     This love that I felt, was uniqu. I felt compleatly safe that nothing could happen. I was no longer in pain and all my worries that I had, fears ect was left behind with my body. This love is somthing a few can even get an idea what it is like. This love

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I started to see the bigger picture. That there is more than meets the eye, that there are things that science can't understand.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Uncertain I was only 5 years old. I'm not sure.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Well, I saw spirits before [my near-death experience], but after I became more aware of different things; I started to feel (like feelings as in touch and sense) differently than normal.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes when I saw the wolf and tiger. After that experience, I had a deep love for them.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I woke up properly, I told the nurse and my mom what I saw. They shrugged it off as a dream. But deep in me, I knew it wasn't - even though I was only 5 years old.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's just this deep knowing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have told people this and have had it classified as a near-death experience. People told me that it isn't uncommon for children that go through a near-death experience to have animals playing with them or being by their sides.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1lacy_nde.html