{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 7850","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n64_nov_1889.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N64 November 1889","mylang":"de"}
:No. LXIV.-VoL. IV. NoVlUDKR, 1889.
JOURNAL
OF THE
-SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and .A8socIates ..
Keetlngs of the Council .. •• . . . .
-General Meeting .. . . .• . • :.
Cues Heceived by the Literary Committee
Correspondence:-
Duplex Personality and the French Experimenta, .•
A Theory of Haunting,
Lib....ry Catalogue..
XEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
BROWNLOW, THE COUNTESS, Ashridge, Berkhamstead.
PAO.
•• 163
..IM
•• 15-1
167·167
•• 163
•• 166
.. 163
BUTE, THE MARQUIS OF, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
CLARKE, ROBKRT HI<:NRY, M.A., M. B. Camb., 1\1.R.C.S., Clarence
Lodge, Redhill.
CLIVE, THE HON. HENRIETTA WINDSOR, Oakly Park, Bromfield,
Shropshire.
FORD, MRS., 58, Marine Parade, Brighton.
HENLEY, HON. ERNEST, Watford Court, Rugby.
HOOPER, GORDON, L.D.S.R.C.S, 21, New Cavendish-street, Harley-
street, W.
ASSOCIATES.
BARTON, MRS. ALFRED, 8, Lexham-gardens, Kensington, W.
BIRD, GEORGE, M. D., 49, Welbeck-street, London, W.
FORJETT, C., 66, Quentin-road, Lea, London.
BABGOOD, WILLIAM, M.D. (Brussels), M.R.C.S., Middlesex County
Lunatic Asylum, Bansteo.d Downs, Sutton, Surrey.
HOLSTEIN, MADAME ALEXANDRA DE, 29, Avenue de Wagram, Paris.
BUME-RoTHERY, J. B.. B.Sc. (Lond), Trinity College, Cambridge.
McLAREN, MRS. C., 45, Harrington-gardens, London, S.W.
MALDEN, WILLIAM E. P., Manor Grange, Tunbridge Wells.
MORISON, THEODORE, M.A., Aligarh, N.W.P., India.
NELSON, MRS. ESSINGTON, 30, Montpellier-terrace, Cheltenham.
NORRIS, WILLIAM ALFRKD, Pine Hill, Ore, Hastings.
OMAN, MRS., St. Philip's Lodge, Painswick-road, Cheltenham.
PORTER, WILLIAM HENRY, Ballymacool, Letterkenny.
POWLES, Ll';WIS CHARLES, M.A., Bushey, Herts.
SHUTTLEWORTH, JOHN, Withington, Manchester.
Digitized by Google
154 Jourrnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1889.
STAPLES, MISS, Dunmore, Durrow, Abbeyleix, Ireland.
TOOTH, REV. ARTHUR, M.A., Woodside, Croydon.
WHITAKER, JOSEPH J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
Meetings of the Council wer6 held on October 4th and 25th.
Colonel Hartley occupied the chair at the first, and the President at thEt
second, except that Colonel Hartley took his place during a part of th&
time in his absence. There were also present at one or both of the,
Meetings, Dr. A. T. Myers and Messrs. F. W. H. Myers, Frank
Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and J. Herbert Stack.
Seven new Members and eighteen new Associates were elected,
whose names and addresses appear in the preceding page.
The thanks of the Council were accorded to Mr. Myers for a dona-
tion of £5 to the funds of the Society.
Some presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donors.
It was agreed that the Annual Business Meeting of the Members
of the Society should be held on }'riday, the 31st of January, 1890; a
General Meeting and a Meeting of the Council to be held on the same
day. The exact arrangements as to the hour of each Meeting will b&
determined later.
Various other matters of routine business were attended to.
The next Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, the 29th of
November, 4.30 p.m., a General Meeting to be held the same evening
at 8.30 as previously arranged.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall on
Friday, October 25th, at four o'clock. The President, Professor
Sidgwick, was in the chair, and over 170 persons-Members and their
friends-were present.
The PRESIDENT gave some account of the International Congress
of Experimental Psychology, which met at Paris in August, and which
he and Mr. Myers, and other Members of the Society had attended.
He commented on the success of the meeting and its agreeable
character, largely due to the tact and good management of its secretary.
our Corresponding Member, Professor Richet. He said that he had
been impressed with the amount of interest taken by the Congress in
the investigations ,of our Society, and mentioned that at the next meet.
ing of the Congress-to be held in England, in August, 1892-repre-
sentatives of the Society for Psychical Research would join with other
Digitized by Google
,Nov., 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 155
experimental psychologists, not belonging to our Society, in forming a
Committee of Reception for the Congress.
The President went on to say that the main subject of discussion by
the Congress had been hypnotism in its psychological aspects. He
had gathered from the discussion that the long-continued controversy
between the school of the Salp~triere and that of Nancy was now falling
into a subordinate place; there seemed to be a general disposition to
admit a wide range of susceptibility to hypnotism in some degree; nor
was there any substantial disagreement as to the fundamental
importance of the part played by suggestion in producing hypnotic
phenomena. On the other hand, even if suggestion would accouut
for all modes of producing the hypnotic state, it would not by itself
account for all the phenomena sometimes observed in that state. And
in saying this he was not thinking only of telepathy and possible
clairvoyance, but of hyperresthesia, increased influence of mind on body,
and other phenomena, more readily admitted than telepathy by orthodox
physiologists and psychologists. .
Leaving this topic, he went on to say that perhaps the most impor-
tant part of the proceedings of the Congress, from the point of view of
the Society for Psychical Research, was that they had taken up the
statistical investigation into the nature and frequency of hallucination
of the senses already begun by us. This would not only make the
inquiry more fruitful by increasing its range, but must lead to a more
general acceptance among scientific men of our view that certain
hallucinations are veridical or truth-telling, if that view be true; or if
the view be mistaken, it would probably bring that fact unmistakably
to light.
In conclusion, Professor Sidgwick repeated his appeal for more
assistance in collecting these statistics. Up to the present time,
as the result of six months' work, about 3000 answers had been
received. At the present rate, therefore, we should have 18,000 or
20,000 to report on when the Congress meets in 1892. But we ought
not to aim at less than 50,000, so t.hat the need of redoubled effort was
evident.
MR. MYERS then read part of a paper by Miss X., the author of the
account of experiments in crystal vision published in Proceedings,
Vol. V. The present paper, which will, it is hoped, be published in the
Proceedings in April or May next year, is mainly concerned with
records of various telepathic experiences between Miss X. and some of
her friends. These ladies had kept diaries in which they recorded,
without of course any normal communication with each other, any
case in which they had at the time the impression that some telepathic
communication had passed between them. It was understood that
Digitized by Google
156 JoWl"fWl of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1889.
every case so recorded was to count as a success if it corresponded with
the other person's diary, and as a failure if it did not correspond, and
that no experience was to count, however striking the apparent coinci-
dence might afterward seem, which was not so recorded. These diaries
had been kept for nearly two years and contained nearly 100 entries.
Most of these were of course very trivial, but only two of them could be
counted as failures.
The PRESIDENT wished to express the sense of obligation we were
under to the ladies who had taken the pains to keep these diaries.
Ever since the Society had been formed, and, indeed, long before that,
he had constantly urged on persons who believed that they frequently
had psychical intimations of present or future events to keep a diary in
which every such impression should be recorded at the time and before
the truth or falsehood of it was known. Only in this way could it be
satisfactorily proved that the failures had not been overlooked and that
the coincidences were beyond chance.
A GENTLEMAN inquired whether any characteristics could be named
which would indicate that a person had the power of seeing visions in
crystals.
MR. MYERS replied that we had as yet had far too little opportunity
of observing such persons to be able to generalise. It was all the more
important that all should try. He had himself begun to form a theory
that persons who had in a high degree the power of visualising in
imagination were likely to succeed, but he had had to abandon this
theory as he had recently met a lady who could more easily see visions
in crystal than anyone he knew though she was a bad visualiser.
MR. HANSEN mentioned a curious instance of seeing visions in a
flat looking glass, looked at almost edgeways, which he had met with in
Russia. He also related an apparently telepathic experience of his own.
He was walking in a street which branched on two sides of a church.
On reaching the church he walked along one side of it, and as he did
so became aware that a gentleman he wished to speak to was walking
along the other side in the opposite direction. He turned back and
met the gentleman at the junction of the roads in front of the church,
and found that he was on his way to seek him. Afterwards it occurred
to him to wonder how he had known that this gentleman was at the
other side of the church, and he supposed that the windows of the
church must be near the ground, and that he had seen through two
opposite windows. On investigation, however, this proved not to be
the case. He could not possibly have seen him, unless he had had the
power of seeing through two stonewalls.
The Meeting then assumed a conversational character.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 157
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY OOMMITTEE.
It will be remembered that we gave (in the JOU'l"TltaZ for November,
1888, Vol. III., pp. 333-336), some interesting cases of apparent
clairvoyance, sent to us by Mr. A. W. Dobbie, of Rothesay Villa,
College Park, South Australia, and that part of a letter from Mr.
Dobbie about these was printed in the JOU'l"TltaZ for March, 1889, in
which reference was made to a letter of March, 1886, which had been
lost. Mr. Dobbie has now sent us a copy of this lost letter and enclos-
ures, the greater part of which we print below. It contains, as will
be seen, accounts of four incidents. The last of these is the most
important, and is considered by Mr. Dobbie to be one of the most
remarkable cases he has ever had, on account of the exclusion of the
possibility of thought-transference. See Journal, Vol. IV., p. 37.) Un-
fortunately he considered success to be so improbable that, contrary to
his usual practice, he did not note down the words of the clairvoyant
at the time. (See JOUTrUII, Vol. III., p. 336.) We have, however, Mr.
Adamson's recollection to confirm his own.
When conducting experiments on thiot subject (which I have now been
doing once a week for the past 12 months), I always have my note-book and
pencil in my lap and endeavour to take down the words of my clairvoyant as
near verbatim as possible.
I generally have two, and sometimes three clairvoyants to experiml'nt
upon at the same time, because I find it is advisable to allow intervals of
rest during the evening, so whilst I am engaged with one the others are
quietly sleeping.
My clairvoyants have been mostly ladies; but that is simply because it
is more easy to obtain ladies as subjects. One of my bl'st and most regular
clairvoyants iot a young mall of about 24 years of age.
A very important feature in connection with c1airyoyant eXpt'riments is
he fact that cases which can be accepted as scientific proof of the reality of
clairvoyance are very rare indeed. It ill quite the common thing for my
experiments to produce unbounded astonishment and delight in the minds of
.the spectators (there are always from two to twelve persons); but they are of
a nature that I cannot accept as being certain that they are literally correct.
To illustrate what I mean, I will quote from my note-book an extract of a
case which occurred 011 the evening of January 1st, ]886. I should first
state that my clairvoyants never have the slightest idea as to what I place
in their hauds for diagnosis, and that their eyes are uot only closed in
sleep, but are turned over, so that only the white is visible when the eyelids
are separated by force; and further, that a needle may be forced into any
part of their body without their beiug in the least disturbed.
MCI. 8
I placed in the hand of my clairvoyant a tooth which I had taken from
Digitized by Google
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1889.
the skull of an Australian native (of the history of which I knew nothing)
and in about two minutes she began: "I see a river, a wild place, I like it
here, it is a nice place, lots of nice trees and green grass, more gum trees
tban anything else" (for the information of English readers I may mention
that what the oak is in England, the gum tree is in Australia),. "but there
are other trees also, there is one something like a pine tree."
Here she suddenly started and said, "Oh, what is that 1 it is a snake, it
is pretty, coloured like a carpet" (I may mention that carpet snakes are
plentiful in Australia), "but I don't like its head." I now asked her if she
was not afraid of it, to which she replied, "No, it can't hurt me, because the
part of me that is there can't be hurt." At this stage her face &88l1med an
expression of sunden surprise, and she exclaimed, "Oh dear, why it's a
baby, I thought it was a monkey at first, it's a little black baby left in the
open air. That's a funny house there, it is not a house at all, it is made of
the bougbs of trees. Humph" (here she turned up her nose in apparent
disgust) "tbere is a nasty smell here, there is a fire in this place. I'm inside
now, it looks like a wurley" (the native name for their huts). "I see an old
black woman sitting down with her arms round her knees making a funny
noise, sbe has a. fur skin round bel' body. Wbat's the matter with that old
black fellow 1 He is crOBB with bel' because she has let tbe fire go out;
he has struck her with a dead animal like an opoBBum which he has with
him. Oh, this place 0068 smell nasty; I must go outside. There are lots
more of these wurlies about here. I'm looking at a very old man ; his hair
is all wbite; he is chewing the root of a tree because he is not well. Ob,
tbey are dirty tbings. Tbey have got a lot of grease rubbing all over the
baby; no wonder it is crying. Now the old woman has spread out a mat
and put the baby on it. Now I see a lot of other children, all ages up to 16;
they have got hold of that dead animal that the black fellow brought j they
are tearing it up and eating it raw. Now the old people are very crOBB with
them for taking it, and are making a great noise about it.' The children are
afraid, and run away and run up the trees like a lot of monkeys. Now the
old man seems to be blaming the woman for letting them take it. He is
talking CroBB, and going like that" (here she shook her head viciously) "at
hel'. Now I am away from there, I see a lot of blacks, They have long
wooden things, and are running like anything."
As our time was now expired I was compelled to wake her up.
All the above account may be literally correct, and her information may
have been obtained only from the aura emanating from the tooth of the
native, but there is the possibility of the faculty of thought-transference
having been at work. However, to combat that idea I should mention that
I have scores of times tried my level best to cause my clairvoyants to see
pictures and visions by conjuring up in my own mind the most vivid pictures
imaginable, but up to the present moment I have never succeeded in making
my clairvoyants think one thought, or say or see anything I have tried to
make them see in tbat way.
By way of testing whether the ordinary sellse of touch was utilised by
the clairvoyants, I have broken different shaped pieces from the skull of the
Digitized by Google
"Nov., 1889.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 159
black fellow from which the tooth was taken, and in every case I receive a
llimilar account from the clairvoyant.
M.e!. 9
On another occasion I wrapped a small fragment of the skull in a piece
of paper, and ou placing it in her hands to my great surprise she began to
describe a factory with a lot of rollers, and a lot of stuff that "looked like
dirty soup," evidently referring to a paper factory. However, she suddenly
began to complain of a vision being "mixed," because she could see "two
kinds of places at the Bame time," and she did not like it. On my telling
her not to trouble about the place with the rollers, &c., but to go on telling
me about anything else she saw, she began at once to give us a most
interesting description of native scenery and encampment, &c.
I could. fill a volume with cases of the above description, but for
the purposes of the Society for Psychical Rt>search I fear they would be
comparatively useless.
Since writing the above four sheets, I have from various causes been
prevented from continuing my letter; but as I have been conducting clair-
voyant experiments twice a week lately, I am now able to quote a case of
clairvoyance which I think puts the hypothesis of thought-reading out of the
·question, although I still think it is not exactly the kind of clairvoyance you
would like to have specimens of.
M.Cl.1O
A few evenings ago (February 5th) I put one of my clairvoyants to the
following test, viz., I picked out nine specimens of various substances as
follows :-One piece new amber, one tooth of Australian native, one tooth
taken from the catacombs of Paris, one piece of old worn amber pipe stem,
one piece coal, one piece ivory, one piece of rock (brought from a manure mill
in England), one boy's tooth and one piece bezoar from a sheep's stomach.
They were all much about the same size, and would feel very similar in the
fingers except the bezoar, which, of course, is rather yielding, like india-
rubber. I placed all the specimens together in a plate. I then placed the
plate in the lap of my clairvoyant, and turning my face in another direc-
tion, so that it was impossible for me to see the plate or specimens, I guided
her hand to the plate and instructed her to take up the first thing her fingers
touched. She did so, and I then removed the plate out of the way, (still
keeping my eyes and face from it), and in less than two minutes she began:
-" I've seen these people fighting before; they are not English. I don't
like looking at them. They have nearly killed that man. He has several
wounds, one on his head, aud one on his arm." Here she seemed distressed,
and seemed to turn away from the scene and commenced to look round the
neighbourhood, and began again :-
"What a pity, such a nice place and all knocked about, the soldiers have
been through it; it must be a rich place. Those women look like Romans.
I'm in the room now where the wounded man is lying. The women are
rather nice looking, such lots of dark hair. Their dress is white and blue,
Digitized by Google
160 JoWf"n(J}, 0/ Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1889,
with gold embroidery round it. Now they are crying because the wounded
man is dead. I wonder who that is '/-some old man, with a white robe
and loose sleeves, he has purple lace down the back and chains and beads
round his neck and waist down to the ground, and a cross hanging in front.
He has hardly any hair on him. He has brought in some long candles; they
are not made as well as candles are made now, they look like hand-made.
He is placing them round the bed. I don't like his face. Oh, I know who it
is, it is an old Father. Now he has placed a large croBB on the dead body
and is saying something that I do not understand. Now there are a lot of
people in the room dreB8ed in white. The old Father is praying, and they
are all joining in. Now he is sprinkling something like water on the body
in the form of a CI'OBB." When did all this take place 1 I inquired. "This
is 600 years ago. The women's hair iR in plaits, looped up and fastened
with long pins with ornaments on ends of pins."
I now asked her what she had in her hand, and, as is commo~ly the case,
she said, "I have nothing in my hand." I told her to look and see (clair-
voyantly, of course), and she then said, "This in my hand is a bone, it
looks like a tooth,* but too long; it must have belonged to the man I saw
killed."
It should be borne in mind that my clairvoyant's hand was closed over it
all the time, an·l not only was she asleep all the time, but her eyes were
turned downwards and inwards, so that only the white was visible when the
eyelids were forced open. Nor had she ever lIeen the tooth with her naked
eyes.
Since writing the above I have had occasion to visit one of the adjoining
colonies (Victoria), which, with other pressing duties, has again caused
cOllsiderable delay. However, the dela.y will ena.ble me to selld you what
to all appearance may be called a case of undoubted clairvoyance. The
circumstances are as follows :-
M.m. 11.
One evening (since I began this lettert), whilst I was bURy with several of
my clairvoyallts, Mr. Ada.mson, J.P. (one of the leading citizens of
Adelaide), called, ill company with his daughter, and handing me two or
three trinkets which had been suspended to her watch-chain, simply
remarked, "We have lost something. Will you kindly see if your clair-
voyant can help us in the matter 1"
My clairvoyants all being asleep, I quietly placed the trinkets in the hand
of the one called MiBB E. Dixon, without remark. In a moment or two she
proceeded to give an accurate description of the young lady who owned the
trinkets. I then said, "Never mind the young lady, something is lost; try
and find it."
*Mr. Dobbie tell. us in answer to inquiries, that the tooth which the subject held
in her hand was the ODe from the catacombs.
tThe letter was begun in JaDuary, 1886, and finished in March. It appears.
from Mr. Dobbie's Dote-book that the main part ofthe incident occurred before.
January 11th.
Digitized by Google
Nov.,l889.] Journal Of Society for Psychical Research. 161
III few moments she commenced to describe a gold pencil-case which
she saw "lying on the road in one of the suburbs, not in the city, it is not
there now, it is in a comfortable-looking ooe-story house, with a garden and
iron railings in front and a two-story building opposite." She then de-
scribed the gentleman who had possession of the pencil-case, whom she saw
with his wife, aod also quoted a remark he made, " We will lay it aside and
see if anyone claims it," and stated that it was placed" in a small box." My
clairvoyant seemed unable to give me the locality of this gentleman and his
house; however, in reply to an advertisement next day or day after, a
gentleman answering the description given by my clairvoyant brought the
lost pellcil-case to Mr. Adam80n, who, naturally enough, was 80 astounded
at the correct description of a person none of Uti had ever seen or known, that
he took the tram and visited the neighbourhood and house in wldch the
gentleman resided, and to his astonishment he found that the descriptioll
was exact, in fact it was the only house in the neighbourhood having iron
railings, also that there actually was a two·story house oppollite, which was
also the only olle in the neighbourhood. Mr. Adamson, on questioning the
gentleman, found that the pencil-case was found on the road as described ;
also that it had been placed in the small box and the remark made re wait-
ing to "see if it would be claimed by the gentleman."
To still further test the genuineness of the clairvoyance, I arranged
(quite unknown to my clairvoya.nt, of course), to have the said gentleman
present with about twelve other persons, who all entered the room after I had
put my clairvoyant to sleep, and, in placing the trinkets and pencil-case in her
hands again, she immediately found herself at the same house again and saw
the same gentleman. I then instructed her to remember (my subjects
never remember anything when they wake up unless I instruct them to do
so) the features of this gentleman, so that if ever she should meet him in
the future she would recognise him. I then woke her up, and to the
astonishment and delight of all present she at once voluntarily recognised
the gentleman as the one she had seen when mesmerised. Of course, you
will see at once that the fact of the clairvoyant recognising the gentleman
is not of itself of much scientific value, because the fact that I by this time
knew the features of the gentleman makes it possible to bring that part
of the experiment under the category of thought-transferencc, but taken
in conjunction with the previous parts, I think the idea of thought-
transference may be discarded.
It is only fair to mention that Mr. Adamson, J.P., is universally
acknowledged by his very large circle of acquaintances to be one of the most
common-sense and shrewdest men in South Australia, and occupies leading
positions on many of the public committees and boards of our city.
(Signed) A. W. DOBBIE.
The following statement, Mr. Dobbie tells us, was handed to him
by Mr. Adamson on MArch 8th, 1886:-
DEAR SIR,-I have looked through that portion of your letter on pages
7 and 8, and agree with most of what is there. You had best, however,
Digitized by Google
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. [Nov., 1889.
leave me ont of the leading citizens, &C. The following is my version of the
affair:-
Passing your house one evening, in company with a daughter, who had
lost a trinket off her watch-chain a week or so previous-who lamented its
loss, not on account of its value, but as an old keepsake-I said to her;
"Come in and see if Mr. Dobbie can find it for you." We told you our
trouble, that something was lost off a watch chain, and asked your assistance
in its recovery, promising to bring you next evening the remaining trinkets,
consisting of three lockets. You said it was a difficult matter, but you
would try.
You had three clairvoyants asleep when we entered the room; shortly
after you placed the trinkets in the hand of one of these, a female. Soon
afterwards she began a fair description of my daughter, which you stopped,
informing her that something was lost which we wanted to find. She was
silent for a minute or two, and then said: "I think I see it now. It was in
the dust, and a man has found it." The question was put: "What is it 1" She
answered: "A ring; there is something on it; it is not a key on it, it's a
pencil-case; it is bright and shiny." She was then asked to follow the man
home. This caused a long silence. At length she said: "I am there now; he
is showing it to a woman. I think it is his wife. He is putting it in a box,
and saying , We will leave it there and see what comes of it.''' She then said
more than once" They would give it up if they knew who it belonged to, they
do not want to keep it, oh, I wish I could take it away, they seem honest
people." She then, in answer to questions put, described the house in which
the people lived, also the neighbourhood exactly, but could not give the
locality, as she had never been there before-described the house as old
and comfortable-like within a garden, a wrought-iron railing in front; no
church could be seen from there, but a large two-story building opposite.
She described the man accurately who had the pencil-case, and advised
advertising for its recovery, as she was sure of its return if it was known who
was the owner.
I may here say that this had already been done, and next day, after the
interview, tbe article was returned to my son at his office in town, the man
who brought it left his address, and I have since visited his house and inter-
viewed him, and he was in no small, degree astonished when he found that
we had known so much about him and his proceedings. I may state that I
was almost an unbeliever in clairvoyance until the above incident, but am
now compelled to change my opinion, and acknowledge that there is some-
thing in it I cannot understand.
(Signed) A. ADAMSON.
P.S. Since the above occasion you have in my presence traced the
matter further by the clairvoyant following the finder to Adelaide, and seeing
him go upstairs to my son's office and there give up the pencil case. Of this,
as of all former knowledge of the article in question, she must have been in
total ignorance.
(Signed) A. ADAMSON.
Digitized by Google
Nov.,I889.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 163
CORRESPONDENCE.
DUPLEX PERSONALITY AND THE FRENCH EXPERIMENTS.
To the Editor of tke JOURNAL OF THE SoCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL REsEARCH.
SIR,-I am anxious to call attention to some passages in the "These de
doctora.t" which M. Pierre Janet submitted to the "Facult6 des Lettres" in
Paris last June, because they appear to me to afford illustra.tion of the
danger of deriving psychical ideas, as the French school seem to be doing,
almost exclusively from the observation of hysterical patients; and also of the
difficulties which attend any attempt to explain the laws of mind in accord-
ance with a uniform basis of consciousness. As regards the first, M. Janet
has lately published a large volume recounting his researches into the cases
of "fourteen hysterical women, fin men subject to the sawe complaint, and
eight other individuals subject to mental alienation or epilepsy." As re-
gards the second, M. Janet, while not directly affirming the Unity of Conscious-
ness,considers that the" phenomena of consciousness, which are aut.omatically
developed by habit, are not, in the normal man, grouped and combined
(synthetises) 80 as to form a second self, as in hemi-somnambulism."
M. Janet's view, then, appears to be that the phenomena of automatism,
not being evidences of a second self, are due to a modified condition of the
normal self, and that condition or affection a morbid one, due to weakness-
"les ph6nomtmes d'automatisme "ont uniquement dus a. la faiblesse."* He
divides these phenomena under four heads-absence of mind, instinct, hahit,
and passion. I must not claim space to follow M. Janet through the whole of
his argument, but I would remark in passing that some of the greatest
intellects in the world have been exceptionally subject to absence of mind;
I suppose-to name the first two cases that OL'Cur to me--that M. Janet
would scarcely class Sir Isaac Newton and Archbishop Whately as weak
men 1 As regards instinct, I suppose that even M. Janet himself occasionally
*We hardlythink that M. Janet'li meaning is quite represented by this quotation.
The sentence from which it is extracted runs as follows: .. Si les phenomenes d'auto-
matisme sont uniquement clus ala faiblesse" [which is to be inferred from the preced.
ing discussion] ..ils doivent existerchezl'hommenormalcomme chezIe malade; mais,
au lieu d'~tre seuls comme chez celui·ci, Hs sont chez celui·la masques et depasses par
d'autl'esphenomenespluscomplexes."-L'A utomatismePsychologique, p. 460. Thus
faibleBJJe is distinguished from disease as a thing which we may expect to fiud in a
healthy man. And the fact that M. Janet does not considel' that the phenomena of
automatism depend necessarily on morbid conditions is proved by his immediately
afterwards pointing out that normal sleep is one of these conditions. This is again
shownfurthel' on in discu8singdistraction,orabsenceof mind. Aftersayingthat this
may arise from fatigue, M. Janet goes on (p. 462): .. Mais la m@medistractionpourra
@tredueaune concentration exceSBive de la pensee, l'un autre elite a une grande puis-
sance d'attention qui sam retrecir la pensee vel'itablemeltt deplace Ie champ de la con·
science." That he does not consider a state in which automatic action occurs to be
undesirable is shown in his discussion of instinct, where he says (p. i63), "on peut
dire que l'instinct c'est I'activite dirigee par des perceptions nettement conscientes
chez I'animal et formant m@me la totalite de son esprit, presque toujours sub·con·
scientes chez I'homme dont l'esprit est rempli par des phenomenes plus eleves."-
EDITOR.
Digitized by Google
164 Jo'U'l"YUll of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [Nov., 1889.
performs such actions as mastication and deglutition without cOllscious
attention to them, and perhaps sometimes puts on his hat on leaving his door
from habit alone.
But it is under the last head-" la passion "-of which the more usual
English equivalent is, perhaps, emotion-that M. Janet (consistently with his
theory of weakness) announces the most startling conclusions. Thus, it is
not only rage, or fear, which betoken weakness, but love! Since love is an
emotion, and all emotions are forms of weakness, of course there is no
alternative, and M. Janet sticks manfully to his point. When" in the spring
a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love" it is, says M. Janet,
a symptom of moral disease due to overwork, shock, or grief, &c., which have
made him incapable of collected thought. Love, like other "virulent
maladies" (!), requires a "period of incubation," but it is all the time
"working underground" till it becomes powerful enough to shake the
constitution. Such, according to M. Janet, is the tender pll.llBion "brought
down to its eBBential psychological characteristics."
Now, a very few considerations will, I think, suffice to show that such a
theory as this is contrary to human experience. Is it in the Hush and
vigour of youth or in the decline of age that the passioDs are strongest 1 Are
love matches more common from 20 to 30 years of age or from 50 to 601 Is
the temper more in need of restraint and the impulses of guidance in youth
or in age 1 If, therefore, we find that the emotions are more vigorous and
turbulent in our hot youth than in our declining years we cannot resist the
inference that strong emotions are symptoms of strength. Otherwise-and
this is the difficulty which constantly besets the believer in Unity of COll-
sciousness-strength is a symptom of weakneBB "which is absurd."
But, nevertheless-and here we are all agreed-not to have the emotiolls
under the control of the reason and the will is a symptom of weakneBB
Weakness, however, of what 1 Of the emotions 1 Of course not. Of the
man himselfl But the emotions are part of the man, and on the unity
thl'ory how can he be strong and weak at once 1 Of the will? Assuredly.
If then the will and the emotions are in confl.ict, the weaker of course will
succumb to the stronger. But if two forces are ill oppositioll, they cannot
be the sallle force. If the Ego be one and indivisible it cannot be divided in
conflict against itself. Either the emotions are not of the Ego, or the will is
not of the Ego, or there are two distinct personalities in one Ego, which
make It duality in unity.
Now let us see how the strength or weakness of the emotions and the
will works out on the basis of a duplex personality. There are four poBBible
combinatiolls which determine the character of the individual.
1. The active and passive personalities are both vigorous. Here we
have the man of strong p8.BBions dominated by a strong will. These are the
men who rule their fellows aud go forth conquering and to conquer. Their
emotiolls are regulated, and kept in check, as the force of steam is cOllfined
within the boiler for use and not for mastery. But very occasionally some
stronger impulse than usual overmasters their self-control, and then their
anger is terrible, 01· their love is consuming. They are unfortunately more
common in heroic fictioll than in real life. Adam Bede is a good example.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1889.] Jou1'nal of Society for Psychical Research. 165
2. The active personality is strong and the passive weak. These are the
shrewd calculating men of the world who never allow "feeling" to interfere
with "business," who before committing themselves to any course of
action always ask "will it pay 1" or the philosophers who look at every-
thing from a scientific point of view till they cease to feel strongly on any
question.
3. The passive personality is strong and the active weak. These are the
artists who follow art wherever she leads them, the poets whose genius
distances the more sober paces of intellectual progression, but are incapable
of much purely intellectual achievement; or the French heroine whose
whole nature is overborne by a "grande passion." Carpenter in his
Xentat Physiology well remarks that persons of genius "are often very
deficient in the power of even comprehending the ordinary affairs of life."
4. Both personalities are weak. These are the aged with failing powers
who, incapable of strong anger, are, nevertheleBS, constantly given to nervous
irritability which, feeble as it is, they cannot control; the fractious invalid]
the weak youth, or the senile lover who is taken with every fresh face, ana
maunders about the "pretty BOuls" like the old gentleman in Pink
])O'mi1We8; and lastly, the hysterical patients, who, like a ship without
rudder or compass, are blown about by every wind of feeling however slight,
and from whom I cannot help suspecting that M. Janet has taken his
curious idea that emotion and love are symptoms of weakness.
It is a perfectly natural sequence from the constant study of the morbid
that the student himself should contract morbid ideas. For our recognition
of morbid states must depend upon our power to differentiate them from
natural ones, and if we confine ourselves too exclusively to the former, they
will cease to strike us as unnatural, and we shall be in danger of founding
ourselves upon them, as though they were examples of law in the human race
at large. That is precisely the danger which it seems to me the new school
of experimental psychology has most need to guard against.
THOMAS BARKWORTH.
A THEORY OF "HAUNTING."
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-In investigating the subject of apparitions the Society for Psychical
Research have named one daBS" Phantasms of the Living," being cases
of the appearance to friends or relations of persons at or near the moment
of death. These have been very succeBSfully dealt with on the telepathic
theory, and it is my object to extend that theory so as to embrace the cases of
Phantasms of the Dead. This has, indeed, been done to a certain extent
already, but there are many points still to be explained. In her paper
on "Phantasms of the Dead" in Part VIII. of the Proceedings of the Soeiety
for Psychical Research, Mrs. Sidgwick gives four theories of apparitions.
The first two require the agency, through practically unlimited time, of
either the mind of the disembodied spirit, or of the quasi-physical spirit
itself; but, however much we may believe in the mental activity of a person
when dying, we have no right to assume continued activit.y after the
cessation of all that we really know of as individual personality. The third
Digitized by Google
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1889•.
and fourth theories I would combine, as I believe together they will give-
especially if extended-a working hypothesis for the examination of new
cases. These two theories are that the first appearance is 1I0t due to the
dead at all but is a purely subjective hallucination on the part of the per-
cipit'nt ; and subsequent appearances are, on the part of the first percipient,
due to unconscious expectancy j and on the part of others due to "some
sort of telepathic communication from the first percipient." Also that
"some subtle physical influence" in certain buildings may be the cause of an
apparition. I would extend and modify these two theories into one, viz :-The
first appearance may be due to the telepathic transference of a mental effort on
the part of some person not necc68l1arily the decedent or even a relation
of the decedent. Subsequent appearances may be due to the same cause.
or to the mental effort of the first percipient as a new source of telepathic
disturbance. The telepathic impression may be the more easily perceived or
appreciated by the percipient when helped by various external physical co-
incidences, e..q., a view of the actual room may help the perception of the
event th(lught of as being enacted therein. When considered in all its bear-
ings this last point will be found to have a wide range of application. It
entirely does away with the necessity of a so-called localisation of telepathic
impressions-though this may very possibly exist. For, if we suppose a
telepathic disturbance set up by some agent at a centre, to be otherwise
equally perceptible along all radii from that centre, it will be quite reason-
able to suppose that that percipient who is, as it were, belped to the per-
ception of the mental picture by the actual perception of a real and
physical part of it will be the most likely-perhaps the only-one to
receive any abnormal impression." It will be seen that the main departures
from Mrs. Sidgwick's theories are that the centre of telepathic disturb-
ance may be someone quitt' other than the decedent or even a relation
to the decedent j and that the "subtle physical influence" is reduced to
nothing more remarkable than something similar to the help which the sight
of a familiar room or place muy be able to afford as a reminder of an event
which took place in that room or place.
It will, perhaps, make matters clearer if I review some cases from the
Society'S collection in the light of the foregoing remarks. Take the case pub-
lished in the Proceedings, Vol. I., p. 108. This is an account of the
repeated apparition through a long period of time of a lady who was con-
sidered by the various percipients to be friendly towards them though quite
unconnected with their concerns. The lady who is supposed to be the
original of this ghost was a Miss A., and seems to have met with a tragic end,
Did she die unmarried, leaving a disconsolate lover behind, in whose thoughts
she ever dwelt 1 Such a mental picture on the part of the lover would be, on
my theory, easily perceived by those who were' sensitive and dwelt in and
about the house-which would be most likely the actual scene of the mental
picture.
Again, there is a case given in the Proceedings, Vol. V., p.415. A lady
who used to live in the country dies in London, and is seen by a stranger
on the same day walking round a tomb, which she appears to have often
* Phantas71l8 o/the Living, Vol. II., p. 268, 269.-ED.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1889.) JO'IIh"nal of Society for Psychical Research. 161
visited when living in the country. May not the percipient have l"l'alised tile
telepathic imprell8ion received from some friend or relation of decedent, who
on hearing of the death thought naturally of the decedent as performing a
favourite act, especially when such impression was helped into being by the
actual sight of the tomb in question. This seems the more uaturalsince the
appearance was not for some hours aftl'r the actual death. In the discuBBion
of this case in the paper above cited, the following remarks are made:
"It certainly tells, as far as a. single case call tell, in favour of the theory of
independent poat-mortem appearance as opposed to that of telepathy, or
thought-transference, in the ordinary sense. For on the one hand the
hypothesis of a transferred inlpreBBion from thl' mind of a dying person seems
strainl'd to the uttermost when (as in this case) tile dying person and the per-
cipient havl' been connected by no tie of blood or friendship." This seems
to imply that thought-transference only or mainly takes place between per-
sons related by blood, or close friends; but I think we have no warrant for
this couclusion, and there are many other cases in which the percipient was a.
stranger.
The case on p. 416 of the same volume is also a case wlu~re a stranger
sees an apparition of a man who died ill that room and subsequently recog-
nises his photograph. This also is easily accounted for on the theory that at
the time some relation or friend of the deceased was thinking of him, and that
the pcrcipil'nt's mental impreBBion was intensified by his actual presence in
the death room.
The next case given ill the same part is a very good one, and can be easily
accounted for on our theory. One person out of three sees repeatedly during
daylight an apparition on a certain bed, and it turns out that there was living
near at the time, a somewhat excitable person who was the very one to find
the decedent actually dead or dying 011 that very bed. This sight must ha'"e
left a great impression on an excitable person who would therefure be ever
likely to meutally repicture the actual Beene. It is also very significant that
only one of the three persons present saw the apparition, or, I would say,
were able to appreciate the mental impreBBion; for we are not justified in
supposing that all are capable of telepathic influence. It mustalso be allowed
that due consideration and investigation ou the part of a percipieut may
eradicate the hallucination or cause the ghost to .. vanish."
This complete telepathic theory seems 011 the first impreBBion to involve
a much more extended sensibility to telepathic impreBBion than we have
hitherto seen ground for supposing. But when we think that all or most
of our thought-transference experiments have been conducted with such
comparatively uninteresting objects for mental concentration on the part
of the agent, as a card, a number, or a simple geometrical figure, and without
any aid to the right interpretation of the mental impreBBion on the part of
the percipient, and have, nevertheless, often succeeded; how much more
should we expect success in the case of one persOIl out of the millions who
are supposed to be within the range of the telepathic influence, when the
subject for mental concentration on the part of the agent is of such an in-
iensely interesting and soul-absorbing nature as the contemplation of the
form of a deceased loved relation; especially when there is the external
Digitized by Google
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1889.
physicial aid to thl' interpretation afforded by the actual view of the room,
building, or place which the l1'tent has in his mind.
This telepathic theory seems to indicate that we could experimentally
obtain some result!!, confirmatory, or otherwise. Given a good agent, and
a good percipient, it would be quite easy to so arrange the subjects for
mental concentration on the one part and tbe locality of the- percipient on
the other part as to test whether telepathic disturbance is confined to the
locality thought of-or is easier of perception when the percipient is present
in the place under cOllsideration. Experiments might also be arranged to
test whether the actual visibility of a part of the thing thought of may not
be a help to the perception of the telepathic impression. For example, the
.agent is thinking of a particular card; will the percipient the more easily
receive the impression if confronted by a blank card 1 Other tests might
be easily arranged which I need not here descrihl'.
SAMUEL JOYCE, JUN.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
The foUowing additions have beel~ made Bince the last list (" Journal" for
October) :-
BREVIOR (Thomas), Concerning Miracles. Reprinted from Spiritual
Magazine, October, 1872..........•..•....•......•••••......•.•••••••.London, 1872if.
HARDINGE (Mrs. Emma), Addresses by.............................•.London, 1865*
HAZARD (Thomas R.), Autobiography of Henry C. Gordon
Ottumwa, Iowa, U.S.A. N.D. if.
Hopps (Juhn Page), A Scientific Basis of Belief in a Future Life
London, N.D. if.
LIPPITT (Francis J.), Physical Proofs of Another Life; given in
Letters to the Seybert Commission...•••...•.....•.. Washington, D.C., 1888if.
PRYOR (Mary), A Life Story of R Hllndred Years ago .•.......London, 1887+
SHUFELDT (Geo. A., Jun.), History of the Chicago Artesian Well
Chicago, U.S.A., 1886*
SINNETT (A. P.), The Occult World Phl'nomena and the Society for
Psychical Research ...................................•...........•London, 1886~
.SPIRITUALisM, A Defence of ; Compiled by a Cape Colonist
CarTown, 1874*
WALLACE (Alfred Russel), Rise, Progress, and Defence 0 Modern
Spiritualism. From the Fortn~qhtl!/ Review. With an Article
by Henry M. Dunphy, from London Society..................Dunedin, 1874if.
WILLIAMS (Rev. J. Herbert), Strange Tracts, No. I................Lond01t, 1887if.
CONGRES International Spirite de Barcelone, 1888 •.•.............••••••••
French Edition. Pari$, 1889t
FONTENELLE, Histoire des Oracles ....................................Pari8, 1884t
L'INITIATION, No. 10, Vol. IV. (July, 1889)........................PariB, 1889t
FRIEDRICH (George), Die Entstl'hung des Wahnsinnes in der Phan-
tasie vom Standpunkte der Psychologie allS betrachtet...........•
Munich, 1887
* Presented by A. R Wallace, Esq. t Presented by Rev. A. T. ]'ryer
::: Presented by Dr. Akin Karoly.
Digitized by Google
