{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1krystal_s_probable_fde.html","mytitle":"Krystal S Probable FDE 6891","mylang":"de"}
          	        Krystal S Probable FDE 6891  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Krystal S Probable FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			3450 Krystal S Probable FDE 6891  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This story is strange, as no life threatening event happened. I'll start from the best place. I had moved into my own apartment for the first time. I had always lived with others until this time. I became aware of paranormal happenings in the home. From my assumptions, I gather that they are always around. However, since I was now on my own I feel they felt unrestrained. 

I can recall the first incident. My bedroom had used to be a back porch. The previous tenants converted it into a bedroom. Literally, all that fit in there was my queen- sized bed. I had slipped in there and shut the door to read. Suddenly, I heard people, activity, and voices. Someone said 'She's gone now!' I cleared my throat to make it aware I was still there. Just like that, someone said, 'She's still here!' From then on I was scared. I wouldn't sleep alone. I'd call my friends in from Wichita, which was 30 plus miles away, just so I could get a good night's sleep.

During this time, I had experiences that kept happening: ghosts touching me, doors closing, footsteps running at me while reading my bible. I might add, at this time I became real interested in the bible, theology in general and history. 

So now, the stage is set for what happened that night: I was having a real bad night. I called in my friend, Tim, to come to stay over. We lay down and I hear footsteps pacing, angry footsteps sounding like boots. It was as if the person was frustrated and couldn't do anything. The bathroom door shut. I asked my friend to go check and see what was going on. He said 'You know what it is', he fell asleep. I sat awake, and then settled under his arm for protection. 

At that time, my sacredness went into absolute terror. I was bone chilled, blood cold scared. I was so fearful of what was in my house that I shut my eyes and thought 'Just do what you will and stop terrorizing me'. Next, I was no longer in my bedroom quarters. I was enveloped in a white light. A white light that shone so bright, but yet is not comparable to any artificial light or light from the sun. I looked down at myself, but this was not me. I was in a man's body, a tall lanky man. I'd estimate him to be young. The clothing he wore was a red t-shirt, denim carpenter-style, jean shorts and white sneakers. I recall a feeling of peace. I felt that the guy was me and I was him. But at the same time it was not me, but him making himself known to me. Then, as suddenly as it happened, I was back in my bed: no longer scared. I felt at peace. I went to sleep and woke up feeling confused at what happened. At the same time, there was a different air in my house. 

I never let my fear control me again after that. I was no longer afraid of the unknown, the ghost or paranormal happenings. I struggled a bit with how to deal after that. I now feel as if the being was showing me what it's like to die, or that I need not fear him. Perhaps he was protecting my soul from what was going on. This is such a crazy story, I feel compelled to add that I am prone to paranormal happenings of all sorts since a young age. 

When I was young, I died from a penicillin allergy. I do not remember that event. I was told by my mother that I went blue, in the car, after I was treated with medication for a brown recluse bite on the way home from the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.      Other: 'Scared, no life threatening physical event.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I typically don't pay attention to details of clothing. I can remember the entire event as if it just happened 5 seconds ago.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I cannot place it. I knew time had passed when I came to, how much time is beyond me. It seems this happened in a matter of both seconds and hours.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Enhanced compared to my already great vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No hearing. There was no communication: only a feeling of understanding.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The soul I encountered was nobody I knew. He was dead.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light was around me: a light that could never be replicated in any way. The light seemed to have boundaries but was also infinite.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     White light: just surrounded in white light!

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Understanding, peaceful, empathy

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   No religion, I study scripture from root languages.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Have remained the same.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I have considered many different things after death. I leaned more to the side that when you die you are as asleep. I now think otherwise.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered being in another person's 'body'. But the person felt akin to my soul of being; meaning, not greater than myself. No voices heard.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     A unity or oneness is there/ here. I felt a deep understanding amongst the other person, one that is just mutual. I somehow was aware it reached beyond just the individual I was aware of.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     There was defiantly another presence there.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Not to be fearful. That there is something else waiting.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. I suppose after the experience I became more awake and aware of the happenings of other planes of existence. I was no longer so fearful. I now wake up seeing entities, now and then, but do not feel fear. Instead I roll over and go back to sleep. I became more infatuated with the word of God. I have more faith now.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At the time I knew of NDE but I wasn't dead. I didn't know what happened. I could not explain this to even my closest friends, even though they tried to understand.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Although I had abilities before, it seemed to advance afterwards. My intuition, remote viewing experiences, out of body experiences and seeing spirits have been enhanced. Prior to this episode I never experienced OBEs, remote viewing and had only seen spirits as a young girl; never as an adult until after the event.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I went to yahoo answers the next day looking for similar experiences. I have told many people in real life and on the web. Nobody had a logical idea of what happened to me. Since I am pretty picky as far as friends, I felt I could tell them and not be judged. They know me and believe what I say. Unknown if anyone was influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Until recently, I had not considered this being a NDE or equivalent as I was not dead, nor in physical danger. I started reading stories here and decided to make a submission and allow the staff or people reading what to make of it. I do feel now, after reflection, it was a FDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Immediately after the event I felt calm and went to sleep. The next day, I started to consider that maybe the person was trying to reach out for help somehow. I was confused as to what happened. But not confused as to the actual events. More like 'why' 'how'. I see it even more clearly now as to why this happened then I did the following week.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am glad it happened. I no longer feel scared to death over things I can't control. I felt so peaceful and calm. It was as if this being just wanted to make me calm.  I would just like to add thanks for reading. I have pondered this for so long and my only conclusion is that I somehow went to the other side in a scared state. I came back from this experience stronger. I also understand if people think this whole thing is unbelievable given the paranormal happenings that induced this. I am mentally stable and do not try to have things like this happen to me. They just happen.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1krystal_s_probable_fde.html