{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kyle_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Kyle R NDE 5207","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kyle R NDE 5207  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kyle R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2719 Kyle R NDE 5207  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a recruit going through training for the Michigan State Police. We were in the gym for defensive tactics training. On that day we were learning the carotid choke hold (no longer taught). You had a partner and when you were the suspect you were supposed to tap the arm of your partner when you started to feel light headed.

My partner began to apply the chokehold. The next thing I experienced was darkness and a loud deep sound I can best describe as a deep vibration. I recall wondering at the time if it was my alarm clock (thinking I was back in college at the dorm). The darkness was then gone and I recall seeing the upper corner of the gym coming closer as if I were moving toward it. Then I recall looking down and seeing my partner holding up my slumped body. I would say I was off to the side about five feet and up about five to six, about ten feet off the gym floor.

The next thing I recall was darkness again and hearing my name called over and over with the command of, 'Recruit stand up! Recruit stand up! Recruit stand up!' I then recall opening my eyes and one of our instructors was standing in front of me looking like he was mad that I had gone out.

He then continued the class as if nothing had happened. I remember standing there very confused about the experience sensing something extraordinary had occurred but not knowing what.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  November 1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was being choked.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I looked back down and saw my partner holding me up.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I looked back down and saw my partner holding me up.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It is hard to explain. I believe now that I was probably out for a matter of a few seconds but the experience seemed longer.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I will always recall the sound of the deep rich vibration.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion as to what the hell was going on.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am not certain that when we die that we go into a 'heaven' because of a God, or if we simply enter another dimension that we simply cannot detect.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I am not certain that when we die that we go into a 'heaven' because of a God, or if we simply enter another dimension that we simply cannot detect.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     On the night my grandmother died (1985) I had come home from work and was watching the Tonight Show. My wife was already in bed. I heard my grandmother's voice call my name out twice. It seemed to me it was coming from the hallway off the living room. I clearly recognized it as my grandmother but got up and went to the bedroom, which was just off the living room and asked my wife if she called out my name. She said no.  I thought nothing more of it that night.  In the morning as I was having coffee with my wife.  I told her about the experience. I clearly heard my grandmother say my name twice. Shortly after that discussion, my mother called to tell me that my grandmother had died from a heart attack about the very time I had heard her voice. If I had not told my wife about the experience prior to getting the call, I would doubt that it really occurred that way but I know it did.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        What I took away from the experience is that when we die and leave our body we are still ourselves, our thoughts memories etc. go with us. That was and is a very comforting knowledge. I also do not fear death now. I fear the possibility of a painful death but not of what happens after.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told others in recruit school about it. I thought at the time that it was simply a hallucination caused by a lack of oxygen to the brain.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I learned about NDE's in 1982. I bought Raymond Moody's book in July of 1982, after the death of a friend. It wasn't until I read the book that I began to think that I may have been in the early stages of a NDE that stopped because the pressure was taken off of my carotid arteries.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I learned about NDE's later and I believe I was in the early stages of an NDE that was interrupted when my partner released the choke hold.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kyle_r_nde.html