{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kyah_nde.html","mytitle":"Kyah NDE 9626","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kyah NDE 9626  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kyah NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5188 Kyah NDE 9626  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    The first experience happened after a suicide attempt.  I was found at least 18 hours after a drug overdose.  I had anoxic brain injury, a seizure and cardiac arrest, and dialysis for 3 weeks from kidneys failing.    

I came out of my body and was on the ceiling.  I looked at a girl in a hospital bed and felt sorry for her.  I sondered what had happened that was so bad in her life that made her so sick.  I did not recognize it as me.  I saw a very bright, blinding light outside the window.  I thought, 'I can’t walk out of the window, so there must be a different way to a tunnel?' So I floated down the hospital hallways.  I couldn’t find the light.  I pass by the room I left and saw doctors were going in.  It was busy, so I tried the other way in the hallway.  I decided my soul was lost. This made perfect sense, since I felt lost on earth with no sense of purpose.  

  I had a telepathic conversation with God.  It was dark and I couldn’t see him. It was pitch black and I was not in any body.   I asked to leave earth.  He said that I was only halfway through.  I replied that if the second half is like the first half of my life, that I’m out.  He told me that I purposely chose as many hardships as possible in order to deeply connect with so many people and lift them up.  I didn’t remember choosing; but then I remembered thinking that when I was little.  I asked about my future to find out if my life was it worth it or would it just be the absence of misfortune because that was not worth living.  I wanted an influential role in life, to fight for justice in a very comfortable salary and have complete happiness. God told me that I needed to get through another couple hard years and then things would shift rapidly.  He promised there would be no reason to come back via suicide.  I told him I was very mad, I didn’t believe him, and that he would see me very soon.  He told me to please just give my decision a couple years. 

 I’m not sure if I woke up then, but I did have a few strange, lucid dreams that I thought were real.  When I did wake up, I was so angry I came back.  Later, I had an incredible relationship with my deceased grandmother and then dad when he died a year later.  I made a complete recovery from 20 years of a severe eating disorder in a very short time.  It is now like I woke up a different person.

  Another event, I had a spiritual kundalini awakening experience.  It felt like an NDE because my deceased dad entered my body and told me that my purpose on earth is 'to serve'. I told my mom about it and she said he said that was his mission and he had told her that.  He just never told me that until after his death.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 July 23 2019  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Suicide attempt       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Life threatening as in cardiac arrest and second choking to death?  Not sure what this means  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was in my hospital bed and saw doctors run into my room  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was a “knowing” stuff I never thought in regular life, and each experience increased my level of perception, and different perceptions transformed my life  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       What kind of consciousness?  I felt conscious the whole time, but was physically unconscious  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Slower?  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was a very lucid dream, felt more real than being awake.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was telepathic so no need for hearing; I felt the words in my heart  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My brother and his wife apparently came to my room when they took me off the echo machine.  In my dream, they came to visit me.  When I visited my parent in Reno, they were not home.  However, I found out they were both at a different hospital as my dad had collapsed and was in a hospital, so that’s why they were not home.  I did visit a hospital in Reno in my dream but I couldn’t find my parents  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a very bright blinding white light from the window.  I wish I went there and was pissed when I woke up because I realized if I went there, I wouldn’t have come back.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Several strange places.  One was outer space between earth and heaven.  Another was floating in the sky like a raven over a ravine, also on an opium train  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Exasperation, anger, peace, frustration, trusting  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     Well, the understanding came in a couple trips to the ethers  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     All my misfortunes, like how I put myself in situations where I was raped and how many years I had anorexia/bulimia  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     My life was described as being successful, with a job I was very satisfied with, and making a difference until I fixed, that I would never retire on purpose  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  I really did not want to come back, but I let God talk me into coming back  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Judaism, Sikhism, Catholic/brethren Christianity, Taoism  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I definitely meditate and pray more  

What is your religion now?       Jewish     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I never thought about my soul being lost that it couldn’t figure out the light was the way to leave.  That was a revelation I have to connect my body with my soul and feel the soul, and since the body housed the soul, that is why it’s called a temple.  That blew my mind  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I started matching my actions to my values  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I didn’t hear it.  It was telepathic and it was my maker  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I found out my problem was my soul was lost and needed to be redirected and found.  I couldn’t leave without knowing my soul knew where it was going  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     A different experience said everything was connected  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I talked w God  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This is the same question 6 times now  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I went through an agreement before birth that I would struggle as much in order to gain a deep understanding and awareness about how to help others get out of their struggles  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Souls come and go to earth and earth is “an experience” to increase one’s soul advancement  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I made a full recovery from an eating disorder and healed from ALL trauma, repaired my broken relationship with my mother, left all my possessions for a better life, no longer attached to things or vices  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I only allow people who are not lost in my personal life, but it’s my duty to help others get found  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Not many people can relate, but I am good with telling it as a story  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I could speak with some of my ancestors and connect to a bigger picture  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A couple months  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Not much, I just never understood how something could change the course of someone’s life so abruptly.  I thought it was facing death that altered them.  But I realize it’s the NDE that makes it life altering  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had a kundalini or spiritual awakening one night.  At the time I never heard a word kundalini and never knew what spiritual awakening meant  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       There are too many questions asking the same question.  My NDE caused a triage of other experiences that heightened my soul, so my NDE wasn’t the only other worldly experience         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kyah_nde.html