{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kristi_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Kristi Possible NDE 3657","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kristi Possible NDE 3657  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kristi Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1660 Kristi Possible NDE 3657  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was born two months premature and weighed 3 lbs. 5 oz. I was placed in an incubator and there was an accident - a fire that began while a nurse was on her coffee break or they were changing shifts. I survived the fire and being so small I do believe that I was visited by someone or some being from the other side when this took place because of the way certain 'talents' and preferences have stayed with me in this life from the very beginning.

I grew up in a home where religion was viewed as a crutch for the weak. Both of my parents claimed to be Agnostics but my mom did allow me to investigate religious organizations when I was in my pre-teens.

However, ever since I can remember, I prayed to God every night. I did not pick this up from any relative or friend. I remember having the surest certainty that there was a God, that he personally watched over me and that he and the others with Him were incredibly beautiful. For my entire childhood and young adulthood, I could find no art - drawings, statues, sculpture - that could even come close to the beauty I knew instinctively was with Him.

I remember being very young and looking at ceramic or ornamental angels in stores and just sighing with frustration that they just couldn't come close.

The other sense that has been a part of my life has been a stronger than normal perception or intuition that has guided me. I could sense before some things happened, received detailed dreams with spiritual information for myself and praise. I would be guided with specific directions that I could 'hear' but not with my ears, but with my mind. I know this might sound crazy, but my parents, who didn't believe in anything but here/now, would come to me to 'see' where an object was that they could not find. I found that if I was not prideful and was only motivated to love/help others that the perceptions would flow more often and be clearer. The moment that I became childishly proud - the connection would be pulled.

I began to listen to this intuition/perception/guidance to a point that I could feel a person/his or her emotional state and concerns remotely. I would know who it was by the feeling of their personality or 'soul' in the center of my chest. The people that I trusted would let me ask them questions to verify what I perceived and I became better at understanding what I was being shown.

The upside to all of this is that I love life, God and all of His creatures and the people here on our planet. The downside is that because I attuned with this so much, some people are not able to be my friend because of it, or the fact that I am kind of 'child-like' and 'simple' in the way I just love and want to be loved, is a bit too much for most people. The experience allowed me to develop a strong connection with the Heavenly Father, the Savior and the Spirit. As I age, I find that the experiences here in this life are indescribably important. The smallest thing that we do - a smile, a hug, obeying the small voice that says to call someone - helps and influences others. Thank you for listening!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  08/20/1069

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other 'I know this is an odd age to choose, but please bear with me and read what I've written?  I was premature and in an incubator when there was a fire.  Please read.'  I weighed 3 lbs. 5 oz. and was born two months premature. The nurses were changing shifts and somehow there was a fire in my incubator at that time.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Throughout childhood.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout childhood.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Owing to the odd nature of my experience, I do not remember. I can surmise though that I must have seen something very beautiful that I kept looking for in this lifetime.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     See experience and explanation, please.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     See answers relating to time this occurred.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   My entire life was directed by the understanding that there was a God, that our life here was very important and that I had a particular mission that he was entrusting me with because he loved me and knew I would do well.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience has been proven out through my lifetime rather than having a specific memory of the event.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know that the items I have mentioned appear incredible but I am offering these up to see if there are others with similar experiences that you could fit this with to surmise truth about the nature of our existence, etc. I am going to mention one last area that I was gifted in through how I came into being here.  When I am feeling the special state of love/light and peace - that is when I 'know' things that are more than perceived by me five senses. In addition, it has allowed me to help animals - even as small as a moth! For example, my in-laws were chasing a moth around the house with a newspaper. I felt its fear clearly! I stood still, extended my finger and told it: 'It's alright. I won't hurt you.' He flew to my finger and held on while I walked to the door and opened the screen to let him fly out. My in-laws' jaws dropped but my husband just smiled.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family members have noticed that I often have information that I can't have learned or shouldn't have known. My husband says I'm a 'spiritual lightning rod'. Laughing!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I hope that even though I don't have a conscious memory of nearly dying and meeting someone, etc. that you will consider what I've lived/gained from how I came here so that we can see if there are similarities to those who experienced NDE's.  I almost forgot to mention that I have had OBEs at different points in my lifetime. These were not positive ones and felt as if I was under some sort of spiritual attack.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, thank you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kristi_possible_nde.html