{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kristie_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Kristie T NDE 3272","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kristie T NDE 3272  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kristie T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1157  Kristie T NDE  3272  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I remember looking down on myself, whilst in the resuscitation room at the hospital. It was like watching TV. I watched the doctors working on me. Cutting my clothes to expose my chest. The noise. The brightness of the room. The energy, intensity of the situation. I saw them shock me with the machine (can't remember what it's called). I recall the look on a couple of the doctors faces. All the time I was floating above myself (ceiling level) feeling peaceful, released, calm - GLAD!

They decided to try shocking me again, they worked on me for (approximately - my guess) ten minutes, and as the time went by the image of me on that table gradually got smaller and smaller.

I wasn't aware of anything / anyone, above me / behind /in front/ to the side of me.

I remember them (not sure who) saying my time was running out, they would have to declare me dead if I didn't respond to the next shock. As they said this my grandfather Dennis, who passed away nearly four years ago, and who had never ever shouted at me in my life, shouted into my right ear, 'NO! GO BACK! IT'S NOT YOUR TIME!' The shock of him shouting at me, made me 'jump' back into my own body.

I was in a coma for four days after they brought me back and in hospital for a further week.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    07/13/2007

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had attempted to commit suicide by taking an overdose. I was resuscitated twice. I only had one NDE.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Tunnel vision, only color in the image I was looking down on, unaware of ANYTHING else.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Hear much clearer.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It felt like I was in a tunnel.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, relaxed, pleased, free, calm, relieved, GLAD, happy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain  My view on life and relationships has changed profoundly, unsure if it's because of the 'experience of nearly dying' or the fact that I have been given another two chances at life and I realize how very lucky I am to be here.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       My grandfather shouting at me - he never ever raised his voice to me whilst he was alive. We were so incredibly close whilst he was alive, and I believe he ordered me back because of how close we are / were and also because of his fantastic love / relationships with my children.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    As soon as I opened my eyes I have told EVERYONE!! They think I'm mad, but I really don't care, I KNOW THAT IT IS TRUE!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I had read stuff on it before. It wasn't really something that I can honestly say I was that interested in.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I know intuitively that it was real. There was NO DOUBT in my mind.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I still KNOW it to be TRUE and REAL.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kristie_t_nde.html