{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kobe_anesthesia.html","mytitle":"Kobe Possible NDE 23002","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kobe Possible NDE 23002  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kobe Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			3848 Kobe Possible NDE 23002  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was being taken into the operating room for a simple routine, outpatient procedure.  I was not afraid at all.  I lost memory of events on the way to the operating room due to the medications that had been administered 1 to 2 minutes earlier.

When I arrived in the operating room, I was asked to scoot myself from the gurney to the operating table.  I have a very vague memory of this as it was quite difficult as I struggled and it took so much effort in trying to do this.

Suddenly, I seemed to pop out of my body and float about 10 feet above myself, slightly to the left and back corner of the room.  The room seemed very dark except a bright light shining on my body from medical lighting equipment on the ceiling.

At the moment that I left my body, the effort and struggle I felt in scooting myself from the gurney to the operating table was gone.  I watched myself scoot over to the table. Once settled on the table, the whole scene went dark and I woke up in recovery.  I don't remember going back into my body.  It was more like just going to sleep.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 18, 2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related.    Other:  Outpatient surgical procedure under general anesthesia

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was floating above my physical body but my body was up above my body.  In other words, I still had a body of sorts, it just wasn't as solid as my physical body below.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very hazy from the drugs they gave me.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was very little to no sound.  It was more like a silent movie.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw the medical staff all around the gurney and watched myself move from the gurney to the operating table.  I didn't know them and the whole scene was rather silent.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see, but there was no definite sound. I had a body of sorts but it was not completely solid.  There were no smells, no tastes, or any physical touch feelings.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt very detached from the situation below, like I was just observing.  I felt no emotional connection to the situation.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was that the strain and effort I felt were completely relieved when I popped out of my body.  I felt a sense of relaxation at the moment I popped out of my body.  There really was no worst part.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Anyone I have told seems rather indifferent to it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kobe_anesthesia.html