{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kolleen_nde.html","mytitle":"Kolleen NDE 1079","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kolleen NDE 1079  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kolleen NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1518 Kolleen NDE 1079  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember me going through an orange tunnel accompanied by an entity; it was guiding me. But the feeling of energies going up and down through this tunnel made me worried. When I arrived at the end, I was greeted by, in fact, I think they were shades thanking and greeting me. I had the feeling to have already met them before, at one time or another. 

Then, someone guided me through a very bright corridor (my mind went blank at this moment) then I found myself in a bath of flames. I should understand something and I didn’t know what, until I told myself that it was not normal to feel so well there. I was not alone. I saw the one who became my husband later on.  He told me how to leave. Something happened in me and all at once, the flames burned my body and I called Saint-Pierre (Saint Peter) for help, with the hope that he would open the door for me. He did open the door after a while, checking that I reached the result that he wanted me to reach. 

Out of there, I felt extremely well and I was guided outside where St Jean-Baptiste (Saint John the Baptist) began to take care of me. He asked me to sit and I had the feeling that I was above the clouds, above of a sea of clouds. Then, he held a book out to me, which he allowed me to leaf through the book. My life was written there (I absolutely don’t remember the details and I don’t think there are still topical topics; I think that it was about the life I should have had in case I missed my exam). After having discussed with St Jean-Baptiste he asked me if I agreed or not (I don’t remember the subject).  When I asked to review some details that I wanted to remember, nothing any more, all pages were blank. 

Someone took me back inside and opened another door. There, I saw my mother and one of my sisters walking in a spangled gold street. I don’t remember any more than what I was told about them. 

Then, I asked to see the Virgin Mary and someone asked me to enter another (room) without any wall. After a while, she arrived, being accompanied by her Son; He was a child approximately six years old. Then she told me about the confusion of God, my eternal father. I asked if I could be of any help and she told me that it was exactly what they were expecting from me.  It was the same thing for all those who had the same experience but without being obliged, always with free will.  Thus, I asked to meet God to decide with Him what I could do to serve His cause and she told me that God was not someone we could meet; we wouldn’t bear the vision. But He is an energy that we can feel and see as a light of variable intensity depending of one’s heart’s purity. He came following Mary’s request. 

I considered this presence as an honor and told Him my feeling. I also felt this sadness which Mary spoke about to me and she told me ''I chose you, along with a few others, to try to awake the consciousness of humanity; that’s the last chance I shall give them. They all think they are God, so I consider they don’t need me anymore.'' 

He showed me the future of the world and we almost arrived at the ultimate point because, since the Gulf war, all what I was shown occurred and even more since Bush came to power. Moreover, nature already began its work and less things evolve, more it will react, the Apocalypse. He told me that for the ones chosen, they don’t have to fear death because He will be with us, whatever will happen. He told me about the means at my disposal (this, I will keep for me) and why I can be useful for Him. Everyone who is chosen has his or her own way to go. 

There were also other middle-aged people. I know that they helped me for doing my task. They are my guides. I went out of the room again and I was asked to enter another one, full of children of different ages. Then I was asked to choose the children I’ll have in the future, while someone gave me the strong and the weak points weak of each one; I did it.  And, with a lightning speed, I came round, in the state described above.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  inconnue

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Life threatening event, but not clinical death apné du sommeil  I am prone to stop breathing while sleeping and at this time, I took refuge to the bottom of my bed. I remember me being expelled of my sheets and having suffocated. Since this, I’m claustrophobic.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  It is difficult to say. I left without physical body but when arrived up there, I had the impression that a body wrapped me and that this body was developing. Was it to help me to find my place in the future?

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As a child thrown in the middle of adults’ problems.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    For sure, but the worries I had about what I saw took precedence over this.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Now, I would compare this tunnel with an umbilical cord which some light goes through.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I already described it above. A priori, I knew them. That’s the feeling I had.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Orange and soft as a mother’s belly who is expecting a baby.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The sea of clouds and the worst, I mean the bath of fire.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Of course! There is no death but eternal rebirths; dying is coming into the world; God can make judgment mistakes and He accepts this. That’s the reason why he gives us an ultimate chance now.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     As written above in my life’s book, all this is cancelled and I do my own choices, always trying to respect my promises. In the day after day life, that means I have the husband and the children I chose and I lost the children I should have had in my original fate.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Most of them occurred and I’m waiting to see what will happen for the others. I don’t wish anybody to know the worst of what I was shown. Read the Apocalypse written by St-Jean (the Book of Revelation by Saint John) and put yourself in his position, seeing things, which are out of your time. I could make it because, in my dreams, as for Nostradamus, all is symbolic.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   a cet age là je découvrai la religion

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Not immediately, but the time they chose was approximately ten years ago.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I was too young and I came to the conclusion that I had an NDE only recently.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Occasional cures, different premonitions and perception about the signs they send to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best is to be in God’s secrecy because I surely don’t deserve it. The worst is to consider I am right.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They understood and as they let me having my free will, I let also the others having their own free will.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kolleen_nde.html