{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 8061","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n67_feb_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N67 February 1890","mylang":"de"}
No. LXVII.-VOJa IV. FEBRUARY, 1890.
JOURNAL
OJ" THE
SOCIETY 'FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
New Members and Associates
Annual Business Meeting ..
Meeting of the Council .•
CONTENTS.
General Meeting .. . . . . . . •• . • ..
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research
Information Given by Planchette-Writlng .. •.
Cases Received by the Literary Committee •.
Cas.... abottt which fttrther Information is desired
Balance Sheet for the Year 1889
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
OORRESPONDING MEMBER.
PAOB
.. 101
2112
101
204
207
!lOS
210
215
216
RAVENSBURG, DR. F. FREIHERR GOELER VON, 4, Nettelbeckstrasse,
Berlin, W.
MEMBERS.
BEST, R. LLOYD STORR, Burlington·crescent, Ooole.
DAWKIN, WILLIAM, 61, Clifton-street, Larkhall-lane, S.W.
:MILFORD, THE LADY, 16, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, W.
NEWBOLD, MISS A., 9, Claro-terrace, Richmond-roRd, S_W.
NEWMANN, OSCAR P., 84, Newman-street, London, W.
ASSOCIATES.
BAYFIELD, REV. MATTHEW A., M.A., The College, Malvern.
BRANDRETH, HENRY S., Fairholme, Weybridge.
BRAZIER, JOHN J., Ekowe Villa, Southcote-road, Bournemouth.
CRESPO, J. CHARTERS, Rio Maior, Portugal.
GRAHAM, HENRY R., 8, Marble Arch, London, W.
KOHNSTAMM, EDWIN M., King's College, Cambridge.
McKERLIE, MISS HELEN G., MonkstoWD, Co. Dublin.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BLODGETT, C., M.D., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass., U.S.A.
BusH, A. P., 149, Pearl-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Cox, MISS, 285, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
DANA, J. C., Public Library, Denver, Col., U.S.A.
DEXTER, SAMUEL, 48, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
FILLMORE, DR. C. W., Providence, R.I., U.S.A. .
FROTHINGHAM, DR. LANGDON, 92, Charles-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
GRIFFING, MRS. C. R., New Rochelle, N.Y., U.S.A.
HILL, MRS. CAROLINE J., Reservoir-street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
LATHAM, MISS VIDA A., B.Sc., Dept. of Medicine, Ann Arbor, Mich.
Digitized by Google
202 JoWT"nal ofSociety for P8ychical Research. [Feb., 1890.
MASON, H. L., 39, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
MOORE, DR., 233, East 14th-street, New York, U.S.A.
PEDIGO, DR. LEWIS, G., Lock Box 259, Roanoke, Virginia, U.S.A.
SATTERLEE, WALTER, 148, East 18th-street, New York, U.S.A.
SMITH, WILLIAM HAWLEY, Peoria, Ill., U.S.A.
STOKES, J. N. P., 48, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
SUMNER, A. M., M.D., 150, Commonwealth-ave., Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
TALBOT, EDWARD A., 2, Elmo-street, Dorchester, Mass., U.S.A.
VORBE, ALBERT W.o 22, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
WARD, W. E., Port Chester, New York, U.S.A.
WOODSTOCK, PERCY, "Waterniche," Brockville, Canada.
ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING.
The Eighth Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the Society
was held at the Westminster Town Hall, at 3 p.m., on the 31st of
January. The President occupied the chair.
The number of Members of all classes, whose names were on the
List on the 1st of January, 1890, was 671, showing a nominal increase
of29. Owing, however, to the increased number ofthose whose addresses
are unknown, and of those who from one cause or another have ceased
to have any practical connection with the Society, (and who do not
receive its publications), the effective strength of the Society must be
estimated to have remained about the same. An audited statement of
the receipts and expenditure for 1889 was presented to the meeting,
and appears on another page. The auditor, in his letter, said :-" It is
with pleasure I have again to bear testimony to the accurate and
systematic manner in which your accounts have been kept by Mr.
Bennett." The President had satisfaction in calling attention to the
statement of current assets and liabilities at the close of 1889. This
showed that the adverse balance of the last two or three years had now
been entirely extinguished, and that there was a small balance of
current assets, without taking any account of the value of the Library
or of the stock of Proceedings.
No further nominations for seats on the Council having been made,
and those sent round on January 9th being just sufficient to fill the
vacancies, the following were declared duly elected :-Proftlssor
Macalister, M.D., F.R.S., Frank Podmore, Esq., H. Arthur ~mith,
Esq., Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S., and J. Venn, D.Sc., F.R.S.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the close of the Annual Business Meeting, and
at 4, p.m. adjourned to 6 o'clock'after the conclusion of the General
Meeting. The President was in the chair, and the following Members
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1890.] Journal of Society f01' P8ychical &search. 203
were a]so present at one or both sittings :-Co]onel Hartley, Dr. A. T.
Myers, and Messrs. Walter Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, Frank Podmore,
H. Babington Smith, R. PearsaU Smith, and J. Herbert Stack.
The Minutes'of last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
The result of the Annual Business Meeting was reported as stated
above.
The re-election of the Officers of the Society for the ensuing year
was unanimously carried as follows :-President: Professor H. Sidg-
wick; Hon. Treasurer: Mr. H. Arthur Smith; Hon. ~ecretaries:
Messrs. F. W. H. Myers and Frank Podmore.
The Committees were re-elected as fonows, with power to add to
their number:-
Committee oj ReJerence.-Professor Adams, Professor Barrett, Pro-
fessor Lodge, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Lord Rayleigh, Dr. C. Lockhart
Robertson, Professor Sidgwick, Professor Thomson, and Mr. J. Venn.
Literary Committee.-Rev. A. T. Fryer, Mr. Walter Leaf, Mr. F.
W. H. Myers, Mr. F. Podmore, Professor Sidgwick, and Mrs. H.
Sidgwick.
Library Committu.-Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F, W. H. Myers.
FiMnce Commitlu.-Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr. J. Herbert Stack,
and Lieut.-Colone] G. L. Le M. Taylor.
Dr. Goeler von Ravensburg, first President of the Society for
Experimental Psychology, of Berlin, was elected a Corresponding
Member, on the proposition of Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Five new Members and seven new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given on a preceding page, were elected.
At the request of Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell, her name was trans-
ferred from the list of Members to that of Associates.
A present of a book to the library from Mrs. Passingham was
recorded with thanks.
The Finance Committee was requested to prepare an estimate
of income aud a scheme of expenditure for the current year, for the
next Meeting of the Council.
The dates of future General Meetings were determined on as
follows :-Friday, March 28th, evening, 8.30 p.m.; Friday, May 9th,
afternoon, 4: p.m.; and Friday, July 11th, evening, 8.30 p.m.
Various other matters of routine business having been attended to,
the Council decided to meet again on Friday, March 7th, 4.30 p.m.
Since the above meetings were held official information has reached
us of the dissolution of the American Society for Psychical Research
as an independent body, and its acceptance of the proposed arrange-
ments under which it becomes a hanch of the English Society.
Digitized by Google
204 JQ'/wnal ofSociety for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1890.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town' Hall, on
Friday, January 31st, at four o'clock, the President, Professor Sidg-
wick, in the chair.
MR. PODMORE read the second part of a paper on "Phantasms of
the Dead," in which he discussed the evidence brought forward in the
two papers "On Apparitions Occurring soon after Death," and "On
Recognised Apparitions Occurring more than a Year after Death,"
published in Part XIV. and Part XV. of the Proceedings respectively.
As an alternative explanation to that of post-mortem agency, Mr. Pod-
more suggested that in many of the cases the phantasm could be
explained as the externalisation of a latent impression, received from
the decedent before his death; pointing out that the existence of such
latent impression had been proved, and that no definite limits had yet
been assigned to the period of latency. In other cases he suggested
that the phantasm might be a casual hallucination, communicated by
infection to other persons in the neighbourhood ofthe original percipient,
or might be due to thought-transference from the mind of some person
who had been acquainted with the decedent. It was contended that in
all cases telepathy from the living was, at least, as probable a cause as
post·mmtem agency; and that in more than one case it furnished a more
complete explanation. In the only narratives which could be regarded
as test cases-where the fact of the death had remained unknown to
intimate friends for a period of some days or weeks-the phantasm
was not seen until the expiration of this period; that is, until the
possibility of telepathy from the living had been established. A few
illustrative stories were quoted. In conclusion, Mr. Podmore deprecated
alike the rashness which found in these facts conclusive evidence for
the survival of consciousness after the death of the body, and the
confident scepticism, equally unscientific, which would reject any such
explanation as untenable. In our present ignorance the only con-
clusion which could safely be drawn from the evidence was the
practical one, that more evidence is required.
MR. F. W. H. MYERS, in reply to Mr. Podmore, read a portion of a
paper which is intended to appear in the next part of the Proceedings.
He fully agreed that in dealing with such a problem as man's survival
of death, we must not slip into assuming an answer without full con-
sciousness of what we do. He considered that Mr. Podmore's paper
should be met, not only by actual rejoinder to its arguments, but by
something of fuller discussion as to the way in which our psychical
evidence generally affects the doctrine of man's survival. For we had
to decide whether explanations of Mr. Podmore's, many of which he
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1890.] Jourrwl of Society for Psychical Research. 205
admitted to be far-fetched, should, nevertheless, be accounted as le88 im-
probable than the supposition that anything in man survives the tomb.
To the speaker it appeared that telepathy should be regarded, not as
" law standing alone and self-sufficing, but as a first hint of discoveries
which could not be circumscribed, a casually reached indication of some
unknown scheme of things of which thought-transference, clairvoyance,
apparitions at death, might be but incidental examples. It seemed to
him that the simplest case of true thought-transference, if once ad-
mitted, rendered a purely physiological synthesis of man at least highly
improbable, and opened a doorway out of materialism which was not
likely ever again to be shut. We had, therefore, empirical grounds for
regarding it as a not improbable &88umption that the individualised
energy which generated veridical phantasms was not coeval with the
body, but might have pre-existed, and might survive. He held, indeed,
that even the evidence in Plutntasms of the Living showed good ground
for holding that the energy in question was not bound up, ill the same
way as our conscious mental energies are bound up, with the physio-
logical activity of the brain. It would seem nearer the truth to say
that telergic action varies inversely, than that it varies directly with the
activity of the nervous system or of the conscious mind. In consider-
ing the question of the survival of this energy, therefore, we had not
to deal with a large known improbability, but with a problem whose
conditions were such that we, in our ignorance, were bound to account
the one solution as no less admissible than the other.
The speaker went on to reply in detail to many of Mr. Podmore's
arguments; and united with Mr. Podmore in earnestly inviting fresh
evidence which might help to decide the controversy in one way or the
other.
THE PRESIDENT, in calling on Members to discuss the papers that
had been read, said that he had often at meetings of the Society
warned his hearers that the views of those who read papers or spoke
must be taken as their individual views, and not as in any way
representing the views of the Society. But on this occasion the
difference in the views expressed by the two honorary secretaries
made any such warning superfluous.
MRS. BIDDER described an instance of an apparition independently
seen by several persons in a house one after the other, without
communication, which, as it seemed to her, could not be explained
by telepathy.
MR. PODKORE thought this case was analogous to some which he
had dealt with in his paper. No one else making any remarks,
MR. PODMORE said, in reply to Mr. Myers, that the latter had two
Digilizedby Google All
206 JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1890.
great advantages over him in this discussion, in that first his side
appealed to the emotions, and that secondly, on his side ridicule could
be employed without impropriety, which it could not on Mr. Podmore's.
With regard, however, to the explanation by thought·transference of
apparent haunting which had so much amused Mr. Myers, he might
say that he had in his hand letters from two members of the Society-
written quite independently and without having seen his paper-sug-
gesting a similar explanation. No doubt in some cases it demanded
an extension of the possibility of thought-transference beyond what we
had positive evidence for, to apply it as he ha.d done to explain phan-
tasms of the dead, but the alternative was between straining a known
cause and assuming a new one, and he thought that the known cause
should be strained to the utmost before assuming that we had adequate
grounds to establish a new one. Be was glad Mr. Myers had put so ably
and so strongly as he had dona what Mr. Podmore himself felt to be
the strongest argument for believing in the possibility of post-mortem
communication-namely, that the fact that telepathy appeared to be a
mode of super·llensuous communication made it likely that it would
continue after the body had ceased to exist.
MISS L. FLINTOFF gave some account of remarkable experiences
which she had had in haunted houses and otherwise.
THE PRESIDENT said that the point to which he wished to direct
attention was, by what further investigation could we determine thill
fundamental disagreement between the two speakers of the evening.
His own view was that it was difficult to decide the question without
further evidence. It is by patient accumulation of evidence that we
must hope ultimately to arrive at the truth, and it was to be hoped
that all members of the Society would help in collecting this. For
himself he must confess that he thought there would be no difficulty
in studying this evidence in an unbiassed spirit-the temptation to
bias being equal on the two sides. For while Mr. Myers' view was
the most interesting, it would be far more difficult to establish than
Mr. Podmore's, so that while our larger hopes would draw us one
way, our desire to carry our investigation as rapidly as possible to a
successful conclusion would draw us the other way.
MR. FRYER asked Mr. Podmore how he would account for instances
where the visions of the dead seen by dying people included persons
really dead, though their death was unknown to the percipient.
MR. PODMORE said that he had come across several such cases, but
thought they could be accounted for by thought-transference from
the living who knew of the death, or by deferred (latent) impressions
received before the death of the person seen.
MR. H. A. SMITH asked Mr. Podmore whether he could conceive
Digitized by Google
Feb.. 1890.] JO'Urnal of Society ffYr P8ychical Research. 207
any circumstances about appearances of the dead which might not be
accounted for by some possible extenl!ion of telepathy such as those
he had suggested in his paper.
MR. PODMORB admitted that he could not. He had tried to do so
and failed. At the same time he thought that the evidence might
be extended in such a way that at a certain point the hypothesis of
telepathy from the living would beeome more improbable than that
of communication from the dead. To take an extreme case-if a
shipfull of shipwrecked persons all appeared to their friends, some
little time after the wreck and before the news was known; he should
be disposed to attribute the phenomenon to post-mortem agency rather
than to anything else.
. AMERICAN BRANCH OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
The American Society for Psychical Research held its Annual
Meeting in Boston, on January 14th, Professor William James
presiding.
It was resolved that the American Society should cease to exist as
an independent organisation. The Chairman then called the meeting
to order as the First Meeting of the American Branch of the English
Society, and gave a brief account of some experiments by Professor
Janet in hypnotism.
The Secretary, Mr. Hodgson, then read some cases of telepathy,
&c., selected from the narratives which he had received during the
year, and which will eventually be published in the Proceedings or
Journal. The next meeting of the Branch will probably be held
towards the end of February.
Mr. Richard Hodgson will act as Secretary and Treasurer for
America. He will superintend the affairs of the Branch, make a
personal examination of psychical phenomena, collect and sift evidence,
etc., subject to the supervision of an Advisory Committee consisting
of Professor William James (Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.),
and Mr. S. P. Langley (Smithsonian Institution, Washington).
The annual assessment of Associates of the American Branch is
13. They are entitled to the free receipt of the ordinary published
Proceedings of the Society and of the monthly Journal. Those who
wish may, with leave of the Council, become rull !tlembers of the
Society by the annual payment of 810. Results of investigations in
America will be utilised in articles to appear in the Proceedings or in
the Journal,. Meetings of the Branch will be held, at which papers
will be read and discussion invited.
Digilizedby Google·
208 JO'Urnal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [Feb., 1890.
INFORMATION GIVEN BY PLANCHETTE-WRITING.
By MR. HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD.
My experience in planchette-writing has been mainly acquired in
sittings with two sisters, whom I will call Mrs. R. and Mrs. V., of
whom the younger, Mrs. V., has far the stronger influence in producing
the writing. With her the board in general begins to move much
sooner and in a more vivacious way than with her elder sister. When
the two sit together the board moves rapidly along, like a person
writing as fast as he can drive, while with me and one of the sisters
the action is often feeble and labouring. But neither of the sisters can
obtain anything whatever when they sit by themselves. The board
remains absolutely motionless under the hands of the solitary operator.
When trying for writing we sit opposite each other at a small
table, I with my right hand, my partner with her left on the planchette,
while the writing produced is upright to me, and upside down to my
partner, from whom, however, the effective influence seems to proceed.
The precise naturc of that influence is not very easy to understand, and
is, I think, very commonly misapprehended. Writing by planchette
is often called "automatic," and the pencil is conceived as being
worked by the muscular action of the sitters, under the guidance of a
blind impulse, as little understood by them as the finished result is fore-
seen by a pair of birds instinctively engaged in the construction of their
first nest. But this is directly opposed to the experience of myself and
my partners. When I am sitting at planchette with one of them, I
know that I am merely following the movement of the board with my
hand, and not in any way guiding it, my only difficulty being to avoid
interfering with it. It seems to me exactly as if my partner, in whom
I have perfect confidence, was purposely moving the board and I
allowing my hand to follow her action, interfering with it as little as
possible. And she gives to me an exactly corresponding account of her
own share in the operation. Thus we give to the outside world our
united testimony of a fact which, as far as each of us is concerned, lies
within our own direct knowledge, viz., that the writing traced out by
the pencil is not produced by the muscular exertion of either of us.
We have, then, in planchette.writing, if our account is to be
believed, the manifestation of an agency invisible to us, yet capable
of moving the bodily pencil either in mere scribbling or in such a way
as to fix an intelligent message on the paper.
The December number of the Jowrn.aZ contains a narrative of a
sitting at planchette where Mrs. R. and I received information 'of
facts in the life of Colonel Gurwood, which we were quite certain
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1890.] Jowrnol 0/ Society /01' P8ychical Research. 209
had never been known either to us or to the only other person who
was present at our sitting.
M. Cl. Aut. 674.
On the 4th December last I had a sitting with Mrs. R and her
sister, which afforded evidence not less decisive of the intervention of
an intelligence oognisant of matters of which we had no intimation.
Not long after my arrival on a visit to Mrs. R, mention was made of
a mysterious breakage of a thick washhand-basin which had taken place
on the previous Sunday, closely resembling other breakages which had
occurred in the house from time to time in a like unaccountable manner.
On one occasion a water·bottle was seen to explode on the dressing-
table when no one was near it. On the Sunday in question Mr. R
and his sister-in-law, Mrs. V., were in the breakfast-room directly
under Mrs. R.'s bedroom, Mrs. R. with the children in the drawing-
room, and the servants at supper in the kitchen, when Mr. Rand
Mrs. V. were startled by a loud crash in the room above them. Mrs. V.
immediately ran in to her sister in the drawing-room and they went
together upstairs to see what had happened. They found the thick
washhand-basin in fragments on the floor; the larger pieces in front
of the washstand, but quantities of smaller fragments scattered over the
floor to a distance (as I estimated) of five or six feet, in a way that
could not possibly have been produced by a mere fallon the carpeted
floor: the basin must have been dashed down with great violence.
While talking of these matters I sat down to planchette with my
hostess and her sister, and Mr. R, coming into the room and hearing
what we were talking about, said that some half an hour ago he had
heard a noise in the breakfast·room for which he could not account in
any way. It sounded like the lid of the metal coal-box slamming down,
but the box bad been already closed, and, besides, the noise seemed to
come from the other side of the room. Soon afterwards he said that
his presence always seemed to interfere with planchette-writing, and
he left the room. Mrs. R and I had begun sitting, but planchette
suggested a change, and Mrs. V. and I had our hands on the board.
Planchette: "If Mr. Wedgwood will ask I will try to answer."
I !isked what was the crash Mr. R had just heard.
Planchette: "Noise from upstairs made by spirits with material
object."
" Was it in the room above 1"
Planchette: " Yes."
"What was it 1"
Planchette: "Mrs. R. will find out."
Mrs. R accordingly went upstairs to look, and while she was away
Digitized by Google
210 JO'/J/T"YUJl of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1890.
something was said as to the probability of my witnessing some similar
display.
Planchette: "Not yet-you see the better class of spirits war
against the smashing fraternity."
Mrs. R. could find nothing out of order, and returned saying she
had looked everywhere.
Planchette: "No, you did not."
Mrs. R.: "Whereabouts am I to look, for I can see nothing'"
Planchette: Wash-(an illegible scribble) "that side of the room."
We asked, " Were you trying to write washstand 1"
Planchette: " Yes."
Mrs. R. went up again, and, meeting with no better success came
down for more specific instructions where to look.
Planchette: "Slop·jar" (written very large).
Mrs. R., laughing, said she hoped that was not smashed, and went
up for the third time. She found the slop-jar in its usual place by the
washstand, and when she came to look closely into it, found the water-
glass lying broken all to bits in the bottom. She had not removed it
from its usual place on the top of the carafe since morning, from whence
it had apparently been lifted off and dropped into the empty slop-jar
from a height sufficient to cause the crash heard in the room below.
Mrs. R. brought us down the jar to show how completely the glass
was smashed.
We then asked, " Was this done by the same spirit who broke the
basin ,,,
Planchette: "The same adverse influence; not the same spirit, but
influence."
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
M. 01. 12.
Mr. Podmore writes:
Mr. Watts who told me the incident immediately before writing it
down at my request is quite unable to find auy explanation of the
matter. He is quite clear that he had no opportunity to tell anyone
beforehand, that the image of the broken statue had actually come into
his mind at the moment when he was brushing his hair, and the violent
shock which he seems to have felt when he saw his dream realised is
strong evidence that he is not mistaken on this point.
From Mr. J. Hunter Watts, of 39, Seething-lane, E.C.
July l6tlt, 1889.
I will endeavour to commit to paper the little episode which I related to
YOlt verbally. About six years a.go I was with my brother George in Paris,
where he bought for some eight or ten francs a plaster of Paris, "Venus de
Digitized by Google
¥eb.,l890.] .Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 211
Milo "-a ghastly copy of the original. I protested against the purchase as I
had to share the bother of bringing the thing home, and as it was some four or
five feet high our fellow travellers imagined we had with us a corpse rolled
up in paper. Arrived home I would not consent to the house being disfigured
with the thing, so as a compromise my brother planted it on the summit of a
fern rookery in the corner of the garden, where it stood for many months, and
I had forgotten its existence save when it was directly in sight. Out of sight
it was out of mind. One autumn moruing, just after I had risen from bed,
I was combing my ambrosial locks before the 100king-glaSB, and I caught
myself reflecting that after all it was a pity the thing had blown down and
broken, for it did not look so bad at Ii distance surrounded by the ferns.
"Strange, too," I thought to myself, "that the head should be so neatly
decapitated, though the fall made no other fracture." Then I pulled myself
up mentally, for all at once it came to my mind that I had been drt'.aming, and
I smiled to myself that such a trumpery thing should be the subject of my
dreams. The whole matter would have been forgotten, would have gone to
the limbo of things unremembered, but on going downstairs to breakfast and
finding the table not yet furnished, I went for a stroll into the garden. It
was wet underfoot and a strong wind was blowing. When I came to the
fernery I gave a start and for a moment I stood tout 'baM, for there was the
poor Venus de Milo, the body unbroken, lying across the ferns, and the head,
neatly decapitated, in the middle of the walk, exactly as I had seen it in my
dream. For the moment I was cOllvinced that I had been walking in my
sleep and had visited the garden, but that I found could not be the case as it
had rained all night and my garments would have been wet through, aud my
feet, if unshod, muddy, or their covering, if they had any, defiled, which was
not the case. Neither am I given to walking in my sleep. I have never
done so. I walked back to the house feeling, to use a vulgar phrase, "knocked
all silly." Can it be, I asked myself, and I have asked myself the same
question a score of times since, that while my body material slumbered in
bed some immaterial part of my being wandered in the garden. If so, that
immaterial part of me had a remarkable diRregard for wind and rain.
The episode is a trifling one, but it has often given me pause and it
remains to me inexplicable. As you know I am a Bank Holiday sort of
young man, not given to day-dreams.
J. HUNTER WATTS.
In answer to the inquiry whether the statue could have been seen
from his bedroom window, or from any other window in the house, Mr.
Hunter Watts says :_U No, impossible; only by stretching the head
out of window another side of house-from rooms occupied by ladies."
A lady to whom Mr. Watts related the dream corroborates as
follows.
45, Hungerford-road, Camden-road, N.
.AugUBt 9th.
All I can at all remember about the Venus is that Mr. Watts told us one
morning that a strn.nge thing had happened, he having dreamt that the
statue had been decapitated, and on going into the garden he found it was so.
Digitized by Google
212 JQW1'nal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb.,18VO.
and that the head of the Venus had been cut clean off, and kat! rolled on to
the path from the figure, which had been placed in the rockery among the
ferns. He was "ery much astonished as the dream was vivid, and he saw
the headleBB statue as he had seen it in his dream. We could never explain
how it happened, the head being aB it were cut off. M. ADA-JIB.
M. Cl. 675.
We have received the following case through the Rev. J. A.
Macdonald. The coincidence of the urgent knocking with the need
of the child may, of course, have been due to chance-but it is not
impossible that the knocking was the vague hallucinatory form taken
by an impression of the danger, received by the unconscious self,
clairvoyantly or otherwise.
The Beeches, White Hall-road,
Woodford,
Marclt 17, 1889.
Over 30 years ago I was directed by the doctor to apply a leech to the
chest of my BOn, a child of about two and a-half years, and did BO at about
half-past ten in the evening. I took the leech off and stayed the bleeding;
and being weary retired to rest, and fell into a sleep. From this sleep, in
about an hour's time, I was awakened by hearing a sharp knocking at my
bedroom door, which was shut. The knocking was BO urgent that I called
out, "Who's there 1" No answer being returned I went to the door, but
found no one there. It then occurred to me to look at the child. I did 80,
and found that the bleeding had re-commencl'd and the blood was flowing
freely from the wound. I succeeded in stopping the hemorrhage, and am con-
vinced that but for this knocking calling my attention the child might have
bled to death. Thill is the only instance in which I had such an experience.
Mr. Macdonald writes :-
(Signed) W. Fox.
Mr. Fox is a chemist whose place of busineBB is in Houndsditch. He
holds that the knocking which he could not explain upon natural principles,
was a special interposition of Divine Providence.
P. C1. 636.
The following much more striking experience, sent to us by Mr.
Romanes, may have been of the same kind, or may have had an
element of telepathy in it from his sister.
18, Cornwall-terrace, N.W.
November 20, 1889.
Towards the end of M.arch, 1878, in the dl'ad of the night, while believiog
myself to be awake, I thought the door at the head of my bed was opened
and a white figure passed along the side of the bed to the foot, where it faced
about and showed me it was covered head and all in a shroud. Then with
its hands it suddenly parted the shroud over the facl', revealing between its
two hands the face of my sister, who was ill in another room. I exclaimed
her name, whereupon the figure vanished instantly. Next day (and certainly
011 account of the shock given me by the above experience), I called in Sir
W. Jenner, who sa.id my sister had not many days to live.
Digitized by Google
Feb., 1890.] JO'U'1"1ULl of Society for Psychical Research. 213
I was in good health, without any grief or anxiety. My sister was being
attended by our family doctor, who did not suspect anything serious, there-
fore I had had no anxiety at all on her account, nor had she herself.
I have never, either before or after this, had such an experience.
(Signed) G. J. BoIiANES.
P. 637.
The following case is probably analogous to the last. It comes to
us through the Rev. H. Kendall, of Darlington, from a lady who does
not wish her name or that of the percipients to be printed.
The late Colonel M., of the Militia, resided at S. I was companion to his
wife for many years, travelled with them into various countries on the Con-
tinent, and altogether was with her more than 30 years. At the time when
I went to them Mr. M.'s elder brother, Thomas, was a captain in thE'
Militia where Mr. M. was an officer, and the regiment. remained at B. for 12
months. B. is six miles from S. and Mr. M. used to come home every
evening. One (.'Old evening in the month of March, in the year 1866, Mr.
and Mrs. M. sat reading for a while over a fire in the bedroom before going
to bed. At II o'clock they were startled by hearing the brother call aloud
" Will" on the stairhead, the name by which he was accustomed to call Mr.
M. Both heard the voice, and Mr. M. rushed to the stairhead exclaiming.
" Whatever bringe you here 1" he having left him at B. and supposing bim
to be there. There was no one to be seen. When I went to them in the
morning they told me immediately of what had occurred. They had been
very much disturbed by it through the night. During the day Mr. M.
rejoined hia regiment at B. as usua\. His brother Thomas was there still
and apparently well. But in the evening about six O'clock, when the
exercises of the day were over, he was standing in the streetwith him when he
suddenly dropped down dead. From frequent references to the subject ill
after years I know that Colonel and Mrs. M. were firmly convinced that the
voice they heard was a reality, anrI that it was an intimation of the impend-
ing death of Captain Thomas. The fact that they told me of it in the
morning, when the captain was still well and likely to live, shows that it
could not be an imaginary thing on their part, the result of apprebension
l't'llpecting him. Colonel M. and bie wife were among the most excellent
people I ever knew, and I remained at the Hall till the grave had closed first
over him and then, nearly 16 years afterwards, over her. E. W.
October 21.9t, 1889.
L 834.-Adpu
The following is from a lady who does not allow us to print her
name, for fear of paining the relations of the friend who appeared.
,''lLl!! 4tn, 1889
I have noted down the remarkable incident I mentioned. The time of
ita occurrence was in the early part of July, 1885, between I and 2 in the
morning. I was wide awake, not baving slept at all, when all of a suddeD
I was startled by a bright light, and I saw at my bedside a tall figure, and
distinctly recognised the face of a VII.Iued old friend who resided many miles
Digitized by Google"
214 Journal of Soc'iety for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1890.
from my home. He was earnestly gazing at me, and on vanishing from
my sight the room became dark as before. My sist.er, who occupied the
next room, on hearing me make an exclamation, came in and found me
striking a light, when I told her whom I had seen. Strange to say we re-
ceived an early communication from a member of his family acquainting us
that our deal' old friend had passed away at the very time he appeared to me.
The narrator's sister confirms the above statement as far as her
part in it is concerned.
What follows is from notes made by Mrs. Sidgwick immediately
after talking over the above circumstances with the two ladies.
The gentleman who appeared was all old and intimate friend of both
sisters, and corresponded constantly with them. They had not heard from
him for a little while before his death, and though they knew that he was
ailing they were not at all anxious, knew of no caust: for special anxiety,
and had not had their thonghts turned to him in any special way.
The lady who saw the apparition had not been to slee~she is a bad
sleeper-but was lying with her eyes shut trying to sleep. Suddenly she
became aware of a bright light in the room and opening her eyes saw by
her bedside the tall figure of her friend. The light, she told me, was like
qayJight and was at the side of the bed where she saw the figure. She
had time to see the figure gazing earuestly at her and to notice that it was
wrapped in a cloak or dressing gown. She saw half the figure-as far oown,
I suppose, as the bed would let her. Apparition and light vanished together.
She was startled and agitHted, got out of bed and had some difficulty in
finding the matches and st.riking a light, owing to her agitated condition.
I do not think that either sister has now an independent recollection-
apart from their kuowledge of the day of the death-of the day ou which this
strange experience occurred, but it made a deep impression on both, and
when the letter announcing the death reached them, which must have been
within two days, they were satisfied that appearance aud death were coinci-
dent. Their recollectiun that the appearance occurred not long after mid-
night is, I think, iudependent of snbsequent information, though they are
not quite sure whether it occurred bel ween 12 and 1, or between 1 and 2. _
A search for the letter announcing the death, which the percipient kindly
undertook, proved fruitless, but the time of its occurrence, mentioned in the
letter, "quite agreed," she writes, "with the very time I noted down of his
appeHrauce to me. This coincidence surprised and greatly impressed myself
and sister."
I was shown various newspaper cuttings relating to the death and
funeral, from whicb I copied extracts. The ,lea.th is announced as haviug
occurred on July 5th, and an obituary notice stated that the cause was
general breHk up rather than allY specific ailment. In an account (If the
funeral it was sta.ted that on the coffin plate was the inscription: "Died
July 6th, 1885, age 75 years." As the ladies pointed out to me, the fact
that the death was announ"ed in the newspapers as having occurred on the
5th, and on the coffin plate as on the 6th, tends strongly to show that it
-occurred very soon after midnight, and, therefore, confirms their recollection
o()f itl! coinciding in time with the apparit.ion.
Feb., 1890.] Journal of Society fOT PtJYchical Research; 215
I was told many things which showed that they were intimate friends of
the gentleman who died, and that his thoughts might naturally turn to them.
The percipient MBured me emphatically that she had had no other ex-
periences of the same kind.
CASES ABOUT WHICH FURTHER INFORMATION IS
DESIRED.
A very interesting case of apparently telepathic communication on
several occasions between two persons not specially connected with one
another has been sent to Mr. Myers anonymously by the percipient, a
lady, who wrote from Exeter, where she was temporarily staying, but
who gave no clue to her identity. The case had all the appearance of
being perfectly bond Me, but in the absence of authentication cannot
be made use of, which we regret, as the experience is curious and
unusual. Should this meet the eye of the sender we hope that she
may be induced to give her name in confidence to some member of the
Literary Committee, or to a common friend. This has been done in
other cases. For instance, the name of" E.M.," whose experience was
described in the JO'UrnaZ for December, 1887, is absolutely unknown
to all members of the Literary Committee except Mr. Fryer.
Further information is also desired about the following case received
through Mr. Fryer. It is an account of an appearance seen on the
road, at a point somewhere between Bowness or Burgh-by-Sands, and
Mungrisdale, or Mount Grisdale, Cumberland, near a miner's cottage,
about midnight and by moonlight, about the year 1858 or 1859, in
August. Our informant cannot remember the exact spot, but re-
members that it was on the main road.
An apparition of a woman, dressed in white, from 10ft. to 12ft. in height,
crossing the road, in front of a dogcart, occupied by three persons. . .
Horse startled, refused to go, ears forward, and backing.
She passed from one side of the road to Ibe other, through two stone
walls, then through the cottage garden, then through fields beyond, and then
up and over the mountain side.
Of the three persons in the dog cart who are all said to have seen
the figure, one is dead, one sends us the above account, and the third
writes that he remembers "something of the kind," but thinks that
" very likely the wholtl thing might be explained without recourse to
the preternatural theory."
Our informant believes that the figure has been seen there by others.
He also tells us that a woman had in former days been murdered by
her husband in the cottage.
We shall be glad if any of our readers can give us information
about similar appearances there or elsewhere, or about the tradition;
or if they can suggest any plausible explanation of the phenomenon.
Digitized by Google
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31st DECEMBER, 1889.
~r.
1889.
Jan. I.-To Balance in hands of Treasurer
Do. Secretary
Dec. 31.-" Subscriptions:-
Members
.AlIsociates ...
" Life Subscriptions ...
"Donations, ...
., Sale of Publications :-
Per Trubner & Co. (July, 1888,
to June, 1889)
" American S. P. R.
" Secretary ...
" Rent-(Rooms not required at 19,
Buckingham Street, 12 months
to Michaelmas, 1889) ...
£. s. d.
66 12 0
10 0 0
279 6 8
'279 6 0
34 710
47 3 9
1012 9
£ s. d.
76 12 0
558 12 8
42 0 0
940
92 4 4
25 0 0
£803 13 0
I!l:r.
1889. £ s. d.
Dec. 3t.-By Literary Committee
" Library
Printing
Proceedings. Part XII. (bal.
lance of) ... ... 118 18 6
Proceedings, Part XIII. ... 69 1 0
" " XIV. (on
account of) ... 60 0 0
Journal, Nos. 49-62 ... 106 8 6
Indices and Title Pages, Pro·
ceedings, Vol. V., and
Journal, Vol. III. 9 15 0
General 23 0 5
Covers and Binding ...
.. General Meeting.,
" Advertising,
Travelling Expenses (Members of Council)
Salary to Secretary (Sept., 1888, to Sept.,
1889) and Commission on Subscriptions
.. Rent (12 months, to Michaelmas, 1889) ..
" HOs~~~:~fer (1.~. mo~~~s. 1~. Buc~~ngha.~
.. Reading Room and Stationery
Postage (Secretary's) ... ...
Gas
.. Repairs ... ... ...
.. General Expenses ... ... ... ...
Donation of previous year transferred to the
Edmund Gurney Library Fund ...
Balance in hands of Treasurer, ... 50 7 7
Secretary, ... 10 0 0
I have audited the above Receipts and Expenditure Account.with the Books of the Society, and certify that it is correct.
£ s. d.
21 0 3
265
387 3 5
213 8
28 18 0
280
800
130 16 8
45 0 0
12 0 0
365
53 13 3
286
650
32 510
1\ 0 0
60 7 7
£80313 0
28th Janoorll, 1890. MORELL THEOBALD, C.A.
NI
.....
~
~
~
~
.,.....
~
~
~.
~
~
~
~
~
~.
~
.,.....
I
~
j
