{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kinyanjui_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Kinyanjui N NDE 5001","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kinyanjui N NDE 5001  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kinyanjui N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2581 Kinyanjui N NDE 5001  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I experienced death attacking me several times in a form of a tidal wave while I was resting in the beach. The wave could hit the beach several times but once it was about to cover my head it subsided. Then came the biggest wave I had ever seen.  Now it was covering me with some mysterious creatures floating on top laughing. Once it was about to cover and sweep me away an amazing bright light appeared and I heard a voice, 'Your life has changed together with your destiny.' From there I saw my uncle who was dead and an angel, they were extraordinary happy. One of them said to me 'You stay in that world.' Then they hugged one another and disappeared. From there I saw myself dancing with the angels in the skies. I could see my dead body behind taken to the morgue, postmortem being done, funeral arrangement, my burial until that evening when I regained my consciousness and discovered that I was not dead.

It took over two weeks.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/01/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   A tidal wave accompanied by mysterious sea creatures.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was no time during my experience I felt consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       There was no time during my experience I felt consciousness.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see people here in earth and read what was in their minds.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It remained normal.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were with the angel, I knew them and also the angel said that I should stay here in the world because I have a lot to do.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright white light, a hundred times brighter than the sun but with no effect in the eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     in the skies with angels patrolling the world

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very wonderful, happiness, no stress no hunger and felt a supernatural greatness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I realized that my life was full of shattered remains, illusions and bad luck. Then I could see my bright future full of glory.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     What I saw I can see how things manifest here in earth have a plan from somewhere.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now believe God had been with me but I couldn't sense that, now I feel God's presence in my life.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe God had been with me but I couldn't sense that, now I feel God's presence in my life.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My life has changed, even the ways I used to view things in a heavy way, I now believe someone is in control of my life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was on business trip in Mombasa from Nairobi to clear the container but things failed to work and I gave up. Then, after the experience, things have changed.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Three days. Amazing.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     After two days.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Yes, I could see my parents, brothers, sisters and wife being physically and emotional stressed during that time and also plus others it was true.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There is a supernatural force which is within us and taking care of us. God and his angels are hovering in the skies in thousands watching us.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You need one on one interview.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kinyanjui_n_nde.html