{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kimberly_ha_nde.html","mytitle":"Kimberly HA NDE 133","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kimberly HA NDE 133  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kimberly HA NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1455 Kimberly HA NDE 133  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The seizure could've been fatal. I was in high school at the time of the 'blessed event'. I had just finished running the six hundred yard dash. What I didn't know was that my parathyroid gland was fluctuating, and so the exertion caused my body to go into a hypocalc'mia seizure. All of the muscles in my body began to cramp and draw up, including my eyelids. I buckled into a fetal position and fell down on the stadium steps.

I knew that I was dying as I began to rise out of my body. I had a sensation like someone pulling a film strip through a viewer very fast. I experienced every color, every emotion of my life as it went by in a blur. I flew up very fast. I was literally flying through outer space. I passed literal planets. I wasn't sure where I was going, but I knew the way. I was aware of someone following behind me, but I didn't look back at them. They felt familiar. It was wonderful to move without effort. I arrived at my destination quickly. I was in a rectangular room. It was white, almost as if it were made of light.

A man came through a door at the far end of the room to meet me. We were each like silhouettes inside of impossibly bright lights. I couldn't exactly see features on the man, but somehow I knew that he was male and older. He seemed vaguely familiar. He asked me to wait there and he left through the same door. After a moment, he returned and said, 'You have to go back. You still have a purpose.' I was very distressed and didn't want to leave this wonderful state, but suddenly I was flying back the way I came. I saw the earth, and the continent and the stadium as I shot very quickly down towards it. Then I saw my body lying on the ground. I slammed into it and there was a sensation like a hard impact.

My eyes flew open for a second and I saw a large man squatting over me. I was startled because I hadn't seen him during my descent. Once again, I was unable to move or even open my eyes. The guy was startled as well. He jumped up and ran off. I could hear him yelling for someone to call an ambulance. I noticed that I could hear my brain screaming 'No, no, no ...!' just as it was before I left my body. While I had been 'out' it had been blissfully quiet. The guy came back and started trying to pry my arms away from my body, but my muscles where locked. I couldn't speak or make any noise. The ambulance arrived. They couldn't find any pulse on me at first, which frightened me since I could hear them. They said, maybe I was dead, but the guy told them that he'd seen my eyes fly open. They kept trying, and eventually found my pulse. My limbs became warmer and looser.  They were able to pull my limbs away from my body, and I could once again open my eyes. But I see things a little differently since that day.

P.S. One of the most unbelievable things about this experience is that the 'squatting man' turned out to be a celebrity himself. It was Jackie Slatter, a veteran player on the Los Angeles Rams football team. He just happened to be running in that stadium that day and exited out the same stair case that I collapsed on. Later I was able to meet him and thank him for his help. He said that my lips were blue and my limbs completely stiff when he found me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Hypocalc'mia seizure   When my body was discovered it was rigid and my lips were blue.  The ambulance team could find no pulse initially.  The seizure could've been fatal.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Like a silhouette inside of a bright light.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       One hundred percent.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I entered a room. It seemed to have three walls with a door at one end, a floor and a ceiling. The front wall was open to the universe.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Although I couldn't make out details, I knew that the being who met me and sent me away was a male and that he was older. On the way 'out' there was someone following behind me, but I didn't turn to look at them and they didn't enter the 'waiting room'.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Both myself and the man who met me were made of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I passed by many awesome planets and unusual bodies floating in space.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy and awe and later distress at being sent back.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was a very fast review of my life's feelings, emotions, experiences, etc. I even saw colors.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told that I had to go back because I still had a purpose. I wasn't allowed to participate in this decision.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was strict Southern Baptist at the time. I am now Agnostic.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Watches wouldn't run on my body for years. It seems to be better now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was knowing that life has purpose. The worst part was being sent back to earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It differs depending on the person's prior beliefs.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have no fear about passing to the next life now. I look forward to being freed from my body when the right time comes.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kimberly_ha_nde.html