{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1_kimberly_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Kimberly T NDE 9179","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kimberly T NDE 9179  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kimberly T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4906 Kimberly T NDE 9179  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I woke up from surgery in the intensive care unit (ICU), looked at my husband and squeaked out, 'I never dreamed before while under surgery.'  He thought that was a strange statement because I dream frequently.   When the anesthesia wore off, I was able to tell the whole story.  The doctor happened to be at my beside While  I told the story to my husband.  
  
  Before when I had undergone surgery, it was like going to sleep and then waking up with no knowledge of time having passed.  This time was different. 

  I was suddenly in a hallway. It was as if the walls,  ceiling, and floor were made of light.   It was as of love was a tangible thing and I literally breathed it in and out.  It was the most amazing feeling ever.   I suddenly knew where my granny G was, so I started hurrying down the hallway, I was eager to go see her.  

  Suddenly,  I heard someone scream, 'KIM!' I turned around and thought,  'I forgot my kids.' Then, I woke up in ICU.  
  
  The doctor's face went white as a sheet.   He said that   the surgery had been going perfectly. Then  for no reason at all, my oxygen  dropped to 60 percent, which is brain death.  He tried everything to get me back. but nothing was working.   Finally,  he said that he grabbed my shoulders and screamed, &quot;KIM!&quot; in my face. Then,  everything returned to normal.   
  
  I know I was on my way to heaven.   Had I been allowed to actually see the other side, I don't think I would have wanted to return.

  At the time of your experience was there an associated life-threatening event?    Yes  I was in the middle of a long surgery and was   intubated. But for an unknown reason, my oxygen level dropped into the 60s.    
  
  Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes     I don't have the words to describe a light that bright, but it didn't hurt my eyes.   I don't have words to describe the feeling of love that was present.   I do the best I can,  but I know it doesn't compare with the reality of it    

  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?   	I would say when I realized where granny G was.  I just suddenly had the knowledge.    

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?         More consciousness and alertness than normal.   It's hard to explain.   I felt like I had understanding that I didn't possess before.    
  
Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.      Everything was just really sharp and clear.    

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.      The only thing I heard was my name being called by a a loud, booming voice.    
  
Did you see or hear any earthly events that were occurring during a time that your consciousness / awareness was apart from your physical / earthly body?    Yes   I heard my name being screamed at it was confirmed by the Dr that this was exactly what he did    

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt euphoria, but then regret when I realized I had forgotten about my children and I knew I had to go back       

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes   For me, I saw it as a hallway    

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was brighter than any light I have ever seen but it did not make me squint or shield my eyes.    

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      No      

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?      No       

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes   I didn't see my granny,  but I knew where she was and was on my way to see her.    

  Did you become aware of past events in your life during your experience?    No       
  
Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?      No      

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No      

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No      

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No      

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No      

Did scenes from the future come to you?     No        

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness suggesting that there either is (or is not) continued existence after earthly life (“life after death”)?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that God or a supreme being either does (or does not) exist?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that you either did (or did not) exist prior to this lifetime?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that a mystical universal connection or unity/oneness either does (or does not) exist?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding earthly life’s meaning or purpose?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding earthly life’s difficulties, challenges, or hardships?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness regarding love?     No       

During your experience, did you encounter any other specific information / awareness that you have not shared in other questions that is relevant to living our earthly lives?     No       

Did you have a sense of knowing special knowledge or purpose?     No       

What occurred during your experience included:     Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?      I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.              

My experience directly resulted in:     Slight changes in my life    

Did you have any changes in your values or beliefs after the experience that occurred as a result of the experience?     No       

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think that just knowing I will definitely be reunited with people I love after death is reassuring and comforting    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?      Yes  Immediately,  while still in the ICU    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?      No       

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened:     Experience was definitely real.   I would probably have thought it was a strange dream if it had not been confirmed by the Doctor.    
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience at the current time:     Experience was definitely real       

Have your relationships changed specifically as a result of your experience?     No   

Have your religious beliefs/spiritual practices changed specifically as a result of your experience?        No    

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Yes         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1_kimberly_t_nde.html