{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kitty_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Kitty W NDE 3427","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kitty W NDE 3427  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kitty W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1414 Kitty W NDE 3427  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was twenty-two, I learned that my husband went missing in action in Viet Nam. When they came to tell me that he was now classified as Killed in Action, the stress caused hormonal reactions resulting in a 'histamine cascade' - I felt a rattling in my chest, dizziness then darkness. I floated above myself, watching, as they took me to Emergency. I saw them insert a very long needle into the chest of the girl on the table, but I didn't recognize her as ME. This was before the invention of defibrillators; the treatment was direct injection of Epinephrine into the heart, cardiac compressions, and suctioning of fluid out of the lungs to clear them for a respirator.

Meanwhile, I had left the Hospital through the ceiling and found myself in an indescribable place of light and mist and beautiful sound. I felt warmth, love, the blood in my veins turning to warm honey and a sense of Peace and Belonging beyond description.

Next, I found myself lying on my back in sweet smelling fresh grass beside a pond, surrounded by indescribable flowers and foliage. There was a small water fall and swans there. After a while, I noticed a man nearby with silver hair and incandescent skin. He appeared to be glowing, but other than that, he looked normal. I did not recognize him, but felt we were old friends. We talked about a time when we were in Kansas in the 1850's and laughed about my, 'spectacles'.

He told me I couldn't stay there - I was just beginning my Path. He said he would come to me in the future on Earth when the time was right and he would have 'what I needed'.

I remember re-entering my body - like getting into a cold, wet sleeping bag - then the pain in my chest. They injured the cartilage just below my sternum during the resuscitation process.

I saw him again when I was fifty-six beside a waterfall in Oregon. I was on my way to our family ranch in Central Washington to care for my mother as she transitioned from pancreatic cancer at the age of eighty-six. I held her while her Spirit lifted. The man at the Waterfall in Oregon only said a single word to me, 'Remember.'

Since that first NDE, I 'know' things. I have a picture of my mother at her own Memorial Service; in the photo, she is a beautiful golden glowing mist, and you can see where she came into the room on the ceiling, she is standing beside her only grandson and me. If you like, I will send you a copy of the picture of mom's electro-magnetic energy. For days after she went Home, Tiger Swallow Tail Butterflies that shouldn't have been there for at least two more months surrounded the house at the Ranch.

She comes and talks to me now and then, mostly about cooking, baking, and how dad is screwing up her Fried Chicken Recipe - stuff like that.

I have three other Experiences, each a bit different.

The BEST THING? No fear of death and the freedom that comes with that: I skydived, parasailed, flew an Ultra-Light and drove a racecar.

By the way, I'm five feet tall and literally catch and release insects. One of the Lessons from a different Experience was simply - 'Do Not Destroy, that which you Did Not Create'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  I have had four at different times.

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    I have a very rare genetic defect that causes me to go into Anaphylactic Shock spontaneously. (IGH1 Enzyme)  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Four major episodes of Anaphylactic Shock (cardio-pulmonary arrest).  A number of less severe episodes where I rose above my body and stood in the Light.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was by the Waterfall.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was by the Waterfall.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     In the sense that Time didn't exist - TIME is an invention of Man. It helps us catch buses and show up for meetings on time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As I described above, and in many other ways as well.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Method of sound perception - indescribable sounds etc.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was just IN a different place - no sense of traveling.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     As described above, an 'incandescent' man - we knew each other in the 1850's - he sent me back.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I was IN a Light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     As described above....My sense was NOT of Heaven, as in UP in the stars somewhere....It was Down either....IT IS A VERY SHORT STEP TO THE SIDE.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Indescribable peace, love, acceptance, joy, overwhelming well-being, etc.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     VERY. I understood that I was a 'Catalyst' - I follow my nose, and believe that I am guided to those who need me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I studied all the major Faiths - The Bible, The Koran, The Torah, Buddhism, Hinduism, Druids, Wicca etc., etc.  I belong to Unity, a worldwide non-denominational Organization that celebrates the common Truths in ALL Faiths.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I studied all the major Faiths - The Bible, The Koran, The Torah, Buddhism, Hinduism, Druids, Wicca etc., etc.  I belong to Unity, a worldwide non-denominational Organization that celebrates the common Truths in ALL Faiths.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Since the first NDE, I 'Know' things - highly 'intuitive' and 'empathetic' - knowledge that everything IS as it should be, whether we personally agree or not. I know my Spirit Guide, her name is Surai. I believe she is originally from the Middle East.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was twenty-two, that's like the 'Which came first, the chicken or the egg?' question. I would tend to believe that EVERYTHING was impacted to some degree.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   How would you describe color to someone who has been blind since birth? There is no language suitable to communicate.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm not comfortable discussing these abilities.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have abilities I didn't have before.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have had four NDE's, I return to the same place each time. I have abilities I did not have before and I still have them (a few are NOT welcome).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I've had three more NDE's and several more 'out of body' incidents.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kitty_w_nde.html