{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kimberly_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Kimberly G NDE 9534","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kimberly G NDE 9534  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kimberly G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5132 Kimberly G NDE 9534  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I remember being awakened from my sleep when my head start twitching and zinging uncontrollably. I was trying to stop  it,  but I couldn't. I saw my dad briefly in the office to the right of me as he was working from home at the time. I tried to yell out 'help' to him, but I could not get any words out. I remember falling back into my pillow with my eyes closed.  The seizure was still happening, despite my repeating,  'Please don't let me die! I am too young to die.' 

  Then I had my whole past flash before my eyes. It was like someone was quickly flipping through a book of my experiences containing every experience I had up to the moment of what was happening to me. It was faster than anything I can describe and there was no particular memory that had focus. Then I remember finally saying (in my head, not with words as I could not talk) 'God's will be done.' I then felt my body calm down and it was immensely peaceful.   I felt my myself lifting up from my body  almost as if I was heading up towards something. I was able to look up towards the fan in my room and tunnel vision began.  I saw a tunnel and a pearly-white, round structure  like a light at the end of the tunnel. I was not afraid at all.  Instead, I felt myself become curious about this. 

  Next thing I knew, I woke up lying on my pillow.  I told my dad the 'dream' I thought I had. I know it was not a dream, because unfortunately, I did experience a few more seizures that year before I was put on medication to stop them. But they were nothing like the first experience I had with my NDE. I also never considered this a NDE until I started hearing other people's stories. Then I  thought, 'Oh my god that is so similar to what happened to me!' Even now, for some reason, I feel compelled to share my story. I hope it brings someone comfort.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2009  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Seizure.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   My brain had experienced a seizure for the first time and I did not know that is what was happening at the time  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my dad in the office doing work by his computer but I couldn't call out to him even though I was trying. He was working and had no idea what was happening to me.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   For the flashing of my life events it's like I could focus on all of them without focusing on any of them fast than the speed of light. The feeling of being lifted from my body is unlike anything I have experienced since.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would say when it first started happening and throughout. It was weird, I am able to comprehend everything, but powerless to stop anything that was happening.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     When I said, 'God's will be done' time went so slow everything slowed down.  When I felt my eyes open and looked to the ceiling and see the tunnel and light at the end of the tunnel slowly appearing, and I was curious about it and narrowed in more and more.  
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     At the time I didn't know that during a seizure your eyes can not focus, but during this experience I could focus on the light and the tunnel.  

  Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing is above average as determined by hearing tests in the past. During this experience I heard nothing. It was silence, even quickly glancing at my dad in the office. I did not hear anything.  
  
Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I saw a black tunnel, almost like something you would see inside a tubing for a washer or dryer. but it was still far from me, I knew I did not enter it but I was having tunnel vision (is the only way to describe this experience).  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I saw a pearly circle light but it was a bit dull but was there and I was curious about it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was intensely fearful and I said 'I don't want to die; I'm too young to die.' but after the life events flash I fell back and that when I felt myself say (in my head as I could not talk) 'God's will be done.' I was immediately peaceful and had no desire to 'fight' that thought and I could feel my soul/or something inside me lifting/coming out of my body just slightly and slowly. I was at incredible peace and the fear completely left my thoughts.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had the life events flash before my eyes as fast as you would flip through a book, faster than any speed I can describe. I could focus on all of them, and none of them, as the same time. Again, I cannot describe this as there are just no words to describe this.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I do believe in a heaven, I am Christian. It was almost like my faith was further affirmed in that moment.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     ;God's will be done.' was my belief that either I was saying that to myself or almost accepting this message, and just completely accepting it as fact.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that there must be a God because I suddenly surrounded and said (in my head) 'God's will be done.'  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Uncertain     The tunnel, and the lifting from my body indicated to me that something greater was happening that I did not have control of but was at peace with it.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     I was intensely fearful; I did not want to die and remember saying (in my head, not verbally as I could not talk) 'I do not want to die; I am too young to die.' It was a struggle for me to try to control what was happening.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     it was very peaceful with no fear as I felt my soul starting to, what felt like, trying to separate from my body moving up.  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Even though I still fear death, I think about my experience and how it shares so many similarities with other's stories, that there must be life after death. Even when my dad passed away, before he passed away, he shared spiritual experiences with me that keep my faith strong too.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's hard to tell people exactly what I was feeling especially with the life events. I won't ever be able to describe it, it is only something they will have to experience for themselves one day.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  All I know is that even to this day, I can recall that experience without doubt in my mind.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The 'God's will be done.' sticks out to me because that is when I no longer feared or tried to control what was happening. I was at complete peace.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it first with my dad. He thought that it was a very intense dream because I could not describe it any other way. but once I had further seizures before I was put on medication, I knew that THAT was exactly what happened the day (not a dream at all!). I have shared with other friends and they have shared similar stories.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I have heard of people talking about loved ones seeing loved ones at their time of passing/almost passing; I hoped that God/parents come to get you at your time of death. My dad was a deacon, so he always shared stories with me from his clients, but never did he share a story about something remotely close to what I experienced that day with this experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Once I had other seizures, I knew that it was definitely what happened to me that night with my NDE, and also that those experiences were not at all like my NDE with life flashes, saying god's will be done, or seeing tunnel and light. This is how I know that experience was real and different, and served a different purpose in my life.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was very real. It was unlike anything I experienced before, and have not since then.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I feel I have covered it all.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The questions are good.            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kimberly_g_nde.html