{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kirsty_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kirsty M Probable NDE 349","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kirsty M Probable NDE 349  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kirsty M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1361 Kirsty M Probable NDE 349  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the hospital for emergency exploratory surgery; I did not want to go, because I went to the doctor with female problems. The doctor checked me and said that I needed to go right over to the hospital for surgery. I told him that I could not because my husband and baby were sick, and I had to take care of them, and that I would go in the following Monday. It was Sunday, my fatigue got worse, I was bleeding, and my husband dropped me of at my mother's house. I asked my mother if I could go take a nap in her room. She told me to go. I must have slept for hours. I don't remember waking up, I just remember floating down the stairs. When I got to the bottom my mother said honey you are going to the hospital. Later she told me that I looked as white as a sheet. I don't remember much after that. The next morning I was scheduled for exploratory surgery. I remember it being very early in the morning; I don't remember who was there except I ask someone to get me a big piece of chocolate cake. It might have been my mother. They told me that I would have all the cake I wanted after I woke up.

Next thing I remember was floating near the ceiling with my legs crossed Indian style. Everything was dark, I had no fear, no pain, and I did not remember anyone that I had in my life. I do remember being in an extremely calm and peaceful self. I had my body, yet I did not know it was me at the time. I was in the operating room looking down on the doctors and nurses. I could see the equipment and I could hear some things. They were working very hard. As I was looking down, I came across a body lying on the table, and just thought to myself, why don't they just let that poor girl go. That was it. After the surgery, my mom told me that they almost lost me. She told me that if I had waited another day for surgery they would have been burying me. I remember when I first came out of the operation I was very pissed off. I wanted to know what had happened to me and no one told me anything for about a week. I didn't know I had had a hysterectomy.

Today, when I think about how I felt floating and watching, it gives me a very serene feeling. I asked my doctor why he used so much drain tubing. He asked me how I knew. I told him I was watching. He told me 'twelve inches' or something like that. I remember each day after my surgery they would come in and pull it out of my stomach one inch at a time. It was used to drain all the infection I had.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  10/1974

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessSurgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Illness requiring surgery, hysterectomy.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had no connection with my body lying on the table - I didn't know it was me, but I had my body as I watched my real body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As the body on the table there was no consciousness, but as the person floating everything was in the right place.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No noises really, but I just knew what they were thinking.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Did not pass into a tunnel, I was kind of disappointed that it was like it was.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     Just that I was floating near the ceiling.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very calm and at peace.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     But not until years later. I don't fear death, I fear the loss of what I now have and know.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   For a long time I never told anyone.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I can write someone's initials and draw pictures of the past, or present, or future events for that person.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Indifferent.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have had twenty-seven years of life that I might not have had and people enjoy hearing that.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kirsty_m_probable_nde.html