{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kim_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Kim H NDE 2804","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kim H NDE 2804  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kim H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1034  Kim H NDE  2804  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  It was a nice and sunny day. We went for a motorcycle ride with two other couples. I rode with my boyfriend of the time. We were at the back, before us rode my sister with her boyfriend. I can remember quite clearly that I saw her look behind her to check that we were along, when all of a sudden our bike flipped. I remember that I saw myself lying on the ground, and after not even a second, I saw my sister. She is a nurse and administered first aid. However, the longer that took, the more I felt being sucked upwards. I felt relaxed and calm, but at certain moments, I was really scared; I wanted to return and was prepared to do anything! Then I felt someone taking my hand, I didn't dare to look behind me, but I still did without wanting to. My nephew was standing there, the one who had a fatal car accident a few years ago. He spoke to me. Not with words, but with feelings. He told me to be careful and wary. I had to go back because I was too young. At that moment I did not want to return; I wanted to stay since I miss him dearly. He sent me back; it felt like I was thrown back in my body. I did not understand what was happening. Suddenly I saw my body again and a medical team were there with the ambulance; then everything around me turned to black. When I opened my eyes, my sister told me a few days later that I was yelling about wanting to go back to my nephew. I cannot remember that - everything is a blur in my memory.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 01/04/2005   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   How can I explain - in a way I understood that I was dead, but I could not really care.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my nephew again.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I was sucked into the sky.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There appeared to be a slight fog in front of my eyes. Not in the space itself, but in front of my eyes.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Some things I cannot describe; there were noises that I knew, but could not recognize.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     It was like above the clouds, my deceased nephew standing there! He told me that I should be careful and wary, and that I should return because I was too young.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     een plaats boven de wolken die kalmte uitstraalde!  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Frightened, calm, emotional, relaxed.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I still do not know how to cope with this, why my nephew told me to be careful and wary. I suppose time will tell.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Atheist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe more firmly that life continues after death, but just without the body and without the problems associated with this earthly life.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe more firmly that life continues after death, but just without the body and without the problems associated with this earthly life.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I distanced myself from certain people. After thinking about my nephew's words a few other matters were clearer.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I can feel certain things - you could call it premonitions. Usually these things actually happen.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        YES!! Seeing my nephew again will always be with me. I was never able to cope with his demise, but now I can accept it better. Every Sunday I visit his grave and tell him how much I miss him, that I found it very important that he was there for me, and that I wish him to be there when I die.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few days after the accident, I told my sister. She doubted my story. Then, two months later, I told my mother; she told me this was a normal experience. A friend of hers had also had a near-death experience.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had read a good deal about NDEs and I have always thought that there probably is life after death. This experience made this belief a lot easier for me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I had read a good deal about NDEs and I have always thought that there probably is life after death. This experience made this belief a lot easier for me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Before this experience I was afraid to die, I even had nightmares about it. But now it is like I know what is waiting for me, and that I should not be frightened.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kim_h_nde.html