{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kim_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Kim G NDE 727","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kim G NDE 727  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kim G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						259  Kim G NDE  727  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in an Urgent Care Clinic receiving a Pic IV Line. The line was inserted and the nurse went to radiology to confirm the placement of the Line. I had just came back from X-ray and told the technician I was dizzy and not feeling well.  No one was in the patient room when I started to go into shock because I was allergic to the PIC Line because it was made from Latex.


I became very dizzy and had to lie down on the examination table.  I started to feel weak, and it became hard to form words.  I could hear everyone around me trying different procedures to bring me back.  I realized I was not in my body but seemed to be in an area that is parallel to ours.


When I jumped to this parallel universe, I was able to be at one place but observe the language of the clinical staff trying different ways to get me to respond.


I was at a place that had unlimited light.  There were no landmarks.  This light was white and all encompassing.  My body was absorbed into the light.  I felt surrounded by people.  Some I knew, others I did not know.  One voice of someone I did not recognize was talking to me.  As they talked, I felt my body had left and my soul was here.  I felt the most serene contentment I had ever felt in my life.  I live with constant pain from my body.  I did not feel my body.  I felt no pain.


The voice asked me if I wanted to stay here.  I said yes for it was the most comforting place I had ever been.  Then different voices welcomed me to this place.  Then I heard my deceased father ask me if I thought I had done everything I wanted to do back where my body was.  I remembering considering this request. I realized at that point that if I said yes I would be stuck here.  I also became aware that this place was a stepping-stone to some place even bigger than this.  Everyone said they wanted me to stay.


At this point, I heard my husband calling my name.  He kept repeating my name and saying wake up Kim.  I ignored his request because of the all-consuming delight that I had finally gone some place where there is no pain; where I felt such joy and contentment I did not want to go back.


Then the voice of my father said I had to make a decision.  I started to search my thoughts as to why I should stay here, and why I should return to Earth.  I heard my father say there was much work still to be done with my family.  Suddenly I realized I did not want to stay here.


I tried to pull away from this warm, white lighted universe where all pain is gone, where waves of contentment and love surged all around me.


I told my father I wanted to come back.  At this point, I was back on the examination table hearing my husband calling me to wake up.  I struggled to wake.  I then realized the other universe did not want me to go and there began a pull between that universe and my husband calling.  I kept saying I want to come back, and feeling the others saying we want you to stay.  This struggle seemed to go one for a while, however, I had no sense of time.


I returned to my body with a slam, like I was thrown into myself.  I immediately started to throw up mass quantities of mucus.  Later it was told to me that at least two pints of mucus left my body.


I woke from the lethargic struggle, feeling my body's pains, and understanding immediately the choice I had just made.


The treatment team was so excited to have me awake that no one asked any questions of me.  I was taken by ambulance to the hospital, which is twenty minutes away from the Clinic.


During the ambulance ride, I was thinking about the white-lighted place and suddenly I returned to it.  I again felt this all-encompassing warmth and contentment such as my life had never known.  I struggled to return, and once again, I was slammed into my body just in time to see one of the ambulance team hovering over me with two heart paddles in his hand.  They were getting ready to revive me by electrically jolting my heart.


In the emergency room, they drugged me because I was struggling on the table so much.  I do not remember even going into the emergency room.


I later accounted to my husband what had happened to me and asked him to tell me his side of the story.  I told him at times I was not in my body.  He believed that had he not been there calling my name they would have lost me.


I realized that this was true.  I would have gladly stayed with the white light feeling the warm energy surging through my body, where pain no longer exists just the love and contentment. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    11/06/2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-relatedAllergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I was receiving a PIC Line IV for antibiotic home use, it was a standard procedure. The staff at the clinic did not know what was happening to me. My husband was there and he had to tell them exactly what to do.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My body was left in the room I was in.  My soul was at another place talking to people I knew where dead.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I could feel anything.  I could not feel my body. I felt able to make decisions and listen to questions and to think about them and answer them.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The time was running faster where my body was.  The other universe had no feeling of urgency of time.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was as if I jumped from my body to another area that had no boundaries or landmarks.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I knew all of them had died.  This knowledge was given to my thoughts.  Some people I recognized, others I did not.  I was listening to my father asking me a question. I remember I did not talk back to his question.  I thought of a response and felt that everyone there knew what I was trying to tell them. We communicated through thought waves.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The white light surrounded me.  There were individual white lights for everyone that I felt was here with me.  We all had our own light.  The light seemed to surround you as a form of feeling, not a physical form that we see on Earth.  The while light was a feeling of warmth and contentment.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     This parallel universe mimicked ours except there were no physical bodies here.  It was like there were two rooms side-by-side.  That I was allowed to look into where my body lay, and then turn my thoughts back to the universe I was in.  I understood that the place I was at offered me something that Earth could never do.  That I was free from pain, joyful, contented, at peace.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew this was a stepping stone to another better place of white light.  In order to go to a different level of being closer to pure contentment that I had to do some task back on earth to go on to the other place.  I had to go back to Earth and help someone.  After I had done this I felt that when I died I had completed the task I was on Earth for.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     After the initial experience I was ambulanced to the hospital.  I was thinking of what happened especially the white light, the warmth of contentment and the happiness of feeling no pain.  As soon as I thought of this placed I returned like I had not left the place. No one voice did I hear, only pure joy.  I realized that this place was not the ultimate place to be. I had a feeling that these people had not completed some task that would lead them on to another higher place.  I knew that if I stayed I would not go back to my body. I could think of the ramifications that would cause my family pain from a loss.  I knew I came back for a reason.  I needed to do some task but that I did not know what it might be.  I knew that after I had completed this task the universe would shift at the weight of completing it.  I realized that I might not ever know what I should be doing to complete the task.  I know I shall not be afraid to die. I know that the other place is a form of contentment. I know that there are layers to the ultimate part of this universe and that I had only been in one such place.  One place that was task orientated.  I know I have something in my life that I must do to help someone.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I knew that I had to go back into my body.  I had to help someone. That this person I helped would do some awe inspiring thing that would shift the universe to a non-chaotic order.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew I was fighting the people in this contented place to return to my body.  At first, the struggle was hard, for they did not want me to go.  I could hear my husband's voice asking me to wake up.  I knew I must return to my body and talk to my husband.  A struggle was going on, a push-pull struggle.  I remember telling my husband that the people there would not let me go.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     We have all heard of near death experiences by other people.  That as humans we hesitate to tell other because we feel they would not believe. I have a feeling someone of the Christian faith would not believe such a place exists.  I tell this story to others who believe in reincarnation.  For this is the changing life force I feel when I die.  I know now that when I die I will be full of contentment and joy.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have the ability to feel the energy of a person by identifying what kind of energy the person emits to others.  I have the ability to tell anyone; using a piece of jewelry, they wear often the history of the emotions of the object.  I have the ability of using 'White Light' to cleanse and fill me with positive energy.  Now I know I can search out this other universe energy and see if it has tilted or altered. There is a renewed strength of urgency that this place could shift to another state that would not be a comforting place to reside.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The worse part of this experience is understanding that I had left my body behind and I was at some other place.  Also that the people in this place pulled at me to stay there.  The best part of the experience is knowing that pure contentment and joy will exist after my death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some people believed that a place could exist after death.  Most Christians believe in a physical place, whereas this place is where your essence goes.  I do not talk to others about this much.  I do not know if they will believe me, however, I do not care.  If they are to know that another place exists then it will be revealed to them in time.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I can meditate using the strength of the 'Light' to cleanse my body of negative feelings.  That I can rid myself of negative thoughts and enter a state of pure joy.  I can search out this place through the light to see if it is still there, but I cannot go inside this place.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      As a Buddhist, I believe in reincarnation.  After this near death experience, I realize that there are different levels after death.  That you need to fulfill as much as possible all tasks to help others while on Earth.  That if you live a wasted life you will keep evolving to Earth to re-learn the reason you are here in the first place.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Did you seek out others who have had experiences similar to your own?  Did you try and find books that would explain what happened to you?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kim_g_nde.html