{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kim_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Kim N NDE 9659","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kim N NDE 9659  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kim N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5216 Kim N NDE 9659  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I had a C-section and then  started hemorrhaging vaginally. They could not stop the bleeding.  I was starting to feel weak and dizzy.  I also thought I was going to pass out, even though I was already lying down.  When they started rolling me back into the operating room for emergency exploratory surgery, I was surrounded by a bright light from every direction, not just above me.  I had the most peaceful feeling I have ever had.  I can't explain it and I have never experienced that before or after. I was told that I had a decision. I could leave the earth or I could stay with my family.  I saw my husband and newborn baby in the room.   I decided I wanted to stay here with them. Then I woke up in recovery.  I was in the hospital for a week and had to have five blood transfusions.  
  
Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 19, 2005  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related. Childbirth.       Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I had a C-section and then I started hemorrhaging and they could not control it, so I was rushed back to the operating room for emergency surgery.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I felt like a either ‘saw’ my husband and newborn baby in my hospital room when I was not there, or that I just knew they were there.  I lost awareness of my body  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal.   I was a little out of it from the medications, surgery and also hemorrhaging  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right after the first surgery.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     They took my glasses from me so everything was blurry. It seemed even more blurry than normal with my glasses off.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    very quiet  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a peaceful light that surrounded me; not just coming from above; coming from all directions, like engulfing me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   It was like I felt I had a decision to leave earth or to stay here.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am certain about God and Heaven.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The same answer about going to Heaven.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I am Christian and believe in Jesus and God.  I knew that what I was experiencing was going to Heaven.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know that I was left here on earth, and it was not my time to die.  I know there is a Heaven and that one day I will be there, but not yet. I am not scared to die.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I did feel like it was my purpose to stay on earth for my husband and newborn baby.  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I felt like I was going to a very peaceful place.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I feel like when it is our time to go, then it is our time.  We must enjoy the time we have here on earth, because you never know when it will end.  I feel I was able to stay here because I still have things to do here and a purpose.  I do not worry or stress about things as much as I used to. I am grateful for my experience.  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I don't really know  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   the peaceful feeling;  it's hard to describe  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have told friends and family. They seemed interested.  My mother who is very spiritual knows it was God and Heaven.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard that people see a bright light and that there is a tunnel, and some people see Jesus.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew and still know it was real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No               				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kim_n_nde.html