{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kim_p_mother_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Kim P Mother's Possible NDE 7507","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kim P Mother's Possible NDE 7507  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kim P Mother's Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand Possible NDE  			3835 Kim P Mother's Possible NDE 7507  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Mother was in hospital to give birth to me and I had turned the wrong way. Mother became semi-conscience due to labor exhaustion.  Somewhere during that time, she found herself going through the tunnel of light. At the end of the tunnel was a man in a turban and with a short beard. As she came closer to him, she heard him chanting, 'Come on Virginia, come on Virginia.'  The face then turned into my father's face. He was smiling and she suddenly went back into her body. 

 My father was in the waiting room at the time chanting, 'Come on, Virginia, come on Virginia.' The doctor lightly hit my mother under the breastbone, which turned me around.  I was delivered safe and sound. So, I've grown up knowing that near death experiences are real. This happened 67 years ago.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Jan 5, 1948

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Childbirth.    Other: Labor/delivery  Mother was a having very stressful time in labor.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Cannot say

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Faster than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Don't understand question

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    She did not hear the words. Telepathy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     She did not know the entity

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   An unusually bright light

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Tunnel of light

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       She was very much in awe.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated   Mother had deep belief in ONE GOD, but did not attend church

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- Unitarian and other liberal faiths   N/A, mother deceased .

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     She then knew everything would be fine with the birth.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Mother had deep belief in ONE GOD, but did not attend church. It deepened her belief in God. Strengthened her belief in God.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I actually saw them. Described above

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   Young, turbin, beard

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     She knew this was a "devine being"

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No     Was given reassurance.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Awareness of love and protection

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in her life.     Slight changes in her life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Cannot answer that for her.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        She was amazed that my father drew her back from beyond.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. My father knew it was true because she could tell him what his thoughts were in the Waiting room.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   It was my mother's experience, not mine.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     She never forgot it and repeated the stories several times in my presence throughout her life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       She lost awareness of her body. My mother is now deceased. She then knew everything would be fine with the birth. The man was young, turban, and had a beard. She knew this was a 'divine being'. God definitely exists. She was given reassurance. Awareness of love and protection. My mother, grandmother, and I, have all had psychic experiences throughout our lives.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kim_p_mother_possible_nde.html