{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kim_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Kim M NDE 2107","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kim M NDE 2107  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kim M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						542  Kim M NDE  2107  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  Surgery-related. One week after surgery to replace a failing aortic valve with a plastic one. I seemed to be getting well enough for discharge. I passed out and recall hearing voices saying emergency surgery was needed to release blood collected near my heart that was squeezing it and not allowing it to function.

After a one week recovery from heart surgery to replace a failed aortic valve with a plastic one (a St. Jude who I adore) I experienced an unconscious episode - yet heard discussion that I needed immediate surgery again. I went to the operating room and remember the overhead white light. Then I felt I had entered a large tunnel and at the end, my mother stood with open arms outstretched. I knew I felt only love and peace.  How sweet it would be to go to her.  Yet, I had to tell her, 'Not yet. I have to finish my tasks on earth. To be with my family. I will be back later.' And it was hard to turn around. My family tells me that I was dying then. Now, almost twenty years later, I believe when the time comes again it will be wonderful to go and my loved ones will be there.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Nov. 1987  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related     One week after surgery to replace failing aortic valve with plastic one...and I seemed to be getting well enough for discharge...I passed out and recall hearing voices saying emergency surgery needed to release blood collected near my heart that was squee  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Surgery complications.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   My total being felt permeated by perfect peace and trust. I needed no awareness - I just was.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my mother and felt her love.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   There was no time or space.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was sparkling clear as being bathed in light.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, desire to stay.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Seems I went through the tunnel so fast but there were movies of my early life on the walls. I learned to be more loving and accepting of others - not as judgmental as many things on earth are temporary toys - we are all God's children.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Jewish  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     More real personal faith but not limited to tradition and dogma.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Jewish  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     More real personal faith but not limited to tradition and dogma.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am far from perfect and it is okay to forgive myself and keep trying again. I know I will be blessed in death, and that all humans have that same possibility. We should recognize each other as different faces of God.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately told my family (husband and children).  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew I had 'work' to do on earth.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is peaceful to think about, especially as I am eighty-two years old.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I feel like it was a blessing.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kim_m_nde.html