{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1khalil_z_nde.html","mytitle":"Khalil Z NDE 9664","mylang":"de"}
          	        Khalil Z NDE 9664  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Khalil Z NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5220 Khalil Z NDE 9664  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I remember my mother telling me take the dates to the tailor-lady about 4 km away from our home. I remember seeing a pleasant, white shadow in a bright white calming light, despite it being dark with no lights anywhere.  The white shadow waved for me to come over. As I walked to him, I saw my paternal grandfather.  He had been dead for couple of years.  He said, 'Boy, go back to your mom.'  

  Then I saw myself lying on the table.  My mom was crying while sitting by my side.  A nurse on the other side of me was removing the blood-soaked cotton. I can see my aunt, who was crying by my feet.  My dad and uncle were in the outside hallway.  I could hear my uncle on the phone saying, 'If he's not on his way, I am deporting his butt back to Egypt.'  Then a man comes running into the room while talking to the nurse as he came towards me saying, 'Get him to the surgery room now.' 

  I opened my eyes and told my mom that I was sorry for taking the bike and not coming home quickly.   

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1977 OR 78  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was very alert  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think I remembered everything I saw in the white room .  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I can see forever in the white room  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I can hear the white shadow man from so far saying come here son come here  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     it was like the room had no walls or ceiling. But the man was so far hiding behind a side wall or something  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     grand father  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   peaceful light all around but not like our lights. I don't know how to describe it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     the white place and calming voices  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       peaceful comfort I was not scared even before I saw my grandfather.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Muslim     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Muslim     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience       

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   the white shadow man that was calling and my grandfather  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life    I saw my grandmother's death 10 days before it happened. I saw my mother death 10 days before I saw my aunt's death.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I knew all my blood family deaths 10 days before they die  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        i dont know  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    my ex and my mom told me don't say anything because people might not believe you  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I pushed it out of my mind then I told my mom.   

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     it was real  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   knowing my family death 10 days before it happens  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       no  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       none     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1khalil_z_nde.html