{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ki_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Ki R Possible NDE 4066","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ki R Possible NDE 4066  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ki R Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1952 Ki R Possible NDE 4066  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It started, I was, I want to say 'floating', but it felt more like I was being pulled backwards through space I was not scared I felt very peaceful. I could see the earth and it was getting further away I could see the planets going by me and I could see the stars. At this point is when I was told, but I didn't hear a voice, why everything was and especially a lot about the earth, which I cannot remember today. I just remember having this knowing of all things and I looked at the earth smiled and said to myself almost like a light bulb going off, 'Oh, I get it.' I understood and it was very beautiful and there was no sense of time as I was moving through space. As I got to a certain point, my body turned although I was not aware of my body and never actually looked down so I don't know. As my body turned, I felt like there was someone there but didn't see anything but something was communicating with me telepathically and every thought was instant. What the conversation was I don't remember.

I looked ahead and there was a vast almost panoramic line of light stretched across space. I could see blackness above it and blackness below. As I got closer to this light, which looked like the sun shining through a thick opaque type of glass, it was very comforting and not painful to look at like the sun. As I got further is when I had the overwhelming sense of my body absorbing all of this light, it engulfed me, it washed me, it filled me up with such love I cannot explain there is no word stronger than love here on earth to describe it. I know now that this was God. As I got closer, I could see silhouette shapes of people all lined up along the vastness of this light and that was it.

I woke up in the morning and said to myself well that was a weird dream and I didn't tell anyone for a long time because I thought they might think I was a little cuckoo I had never heard of these experiences before. I then moved into my mom's house with my husband and two children and I believe I may have been very early in my pregnancy with my second son when this happened. We moved in and all was good. I decided to confide in my mom about what I had experienced and she didn't have much to say besides 'wow'. It is very hard to try to explain it to people. She came to me one day and said my grandmother bought her a book it was called '90 Minutes in Heaven' my grandmother had no idea about my experience.

I read this book and as I read, I got to the part when he is enveloped in this light with his indescribable word of overwhelming love. My eyes welled up my whole body tingled and I thought to myself, 'Oh my gosh this is exactly what happened to me.' I said to my mother, 'Could something have possibly happened to me in my sleep? Did I die in my sleep?' I became very upset about this because I don't know what happened and the thought of me dying in my sleep was quite scary. I feel fine and have no health problems. I have not shared my story with many besides my close family and friends. I know what I experienced. I felt the love of God and would not lie about something like that. I am a born again Christian and believe in Jesus and God. I am not afraid to die anymore.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    I was recently pregnant at the time  Other I was sleeping and I don't know if maybe I died in my sleep or not, I have no medical problems

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was told, although there was no voice to be heard, it was more like in my thoughts, about everything I knew everything. I had an understanding about the whole universe and why planets and stars are where they are why people were here on this particular planet also I had no memory of being on earth I felt like I was always there.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time, none, if that makes sense there is no sense of time passing you just are. I had no memory of being on earth I did not say to myself I miss my family. Also it felt like I had always been there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed very clear and crisp I could see the blue and green of the earth and the clouds. Also when I turned to the light it was almost like I could see further in my peripheral vision than normal almost all the way around.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I did not see who was with me in the time when I was being pulled through space but I knew and was communicating with someone. Also the silhouettes of the people lined up along the edge of the light.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a bright whitish opaque glowing light, not like light here, it is difficult to explain it, almost like it was alive and not just from a source, like light coming from a light bulb but all around, all encompassing.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Excitement, joy, peace, happiness, and the love of God was beyond words. When I think about it now I start to cry because it was so wonderful and I miss it and I feel very gracious I was able to experience what happened to me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I don't know if I could call it a boundary as I had free will to go wherever I wanted to go.  When I got close to the light I didn't see any wall or anything it was almost like a giant rip in space like it just opened up like a zipper but I didn't see anything the light was just there.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew why the universe was made how it was made why the planets are where they are and why the stars are there, I felt like the stars were special. I knew how the earth was made and humans, people, and the whole order of it all why the oceans do what they do and the plants, animals, insects, people are all one. We are all connected to everything like we were made from one source even the planets we are all a part of everything. The details of the order of it all I do not remember.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel closer to my family and friends and I have a different outlook on life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is hard to explain the light, how God is the light, and the light completely engulfs you with an overwhelming sense of love. A love no one here understands. That you can speak with your thoughts instantly there is no time and a feeling like I was always there and my experience here on earth never happened. Also that I had a knowledge of everything, I knew why the earth was here how it was made that everything is perfectly executed and everything is connected all is one with God.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes. I look at the world differently I look at people differently because I was told that we are all one and we shouldn't treat people badly and have respect for one another because we are all one. Also the love that I felt when I think about it I cry every time because it was so wonderful I wish I could share it with everyone.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About three to four years, I put it out of my mind for a while. I told my mom first then my husband then my best friend. My mom was very interested and we have talked about it many times. My husband listened but didn't have much to say, and my best friend who has mixed feelings about religion and stuff like that, I thought she would think I was crazy, but she ended up supporting me and asked me a lot of questions.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At first I thought it was a dream and never really thought about it but always wondered why this happened to me. I have no idea what it is like to be in heaven, so when I read the book '90 Minutes in Heaven' I was astonished at the similarities.  That is when I had realized that this is what happened to me and I became well aware of my experience and talked about it frequently with my family and have always wondered did I die in my sleep and come back?

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what happened; I felt things I have never felt, I knew things no one knows. I am very moved about it. When I think about it, I get very emotional. I think if I could have stayed, I would have. But there was a reason I came back.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish everyone can feel the love I felt even people who are not nice I want everyone to be there because we all came from there.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ki_r_possible_nde.html