{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kiko_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Kiko M NDE 2865","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kiko M NDE 2865  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kiko M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						988  Kiko M NDE  2865  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  On January 6th I took a friend home after work. He lived far, so after I dropped him off I was speeding to get home. According to the police report, I lost control of my vehicle in order to avoid an accident, and I ended up crashing head on into a tree. I was partially ejected from the car and I was hanging by my face in the windshield as it cut into my face. I don't remember this, this was on the police report.

I didn't remember anything but being at a place of darkness and I remember seeing this ditch that stretched to the right and to the left for ever and it went downwards forever also. It was so clear I could think clearly and reason with myself clearly about my whereabouts. I remember asking where am I? I felt so alone and lost so many emotions took me all at once. I examined the ditch carefully, then as I looked onto the other side of the ditch that's when shapes started to take form. I saw these black creatures that could shape-shift from small to large and vice versa. I was aware that this was not a good place to be. It was like watching a stage play but with real demonic creatures. I will never forget this as long as I live. The creatures were black and it looked like they were floating. I was gripped with fear. I remember asking what are those and where am I? I remember calling out to GOD.

After watching this scene for a while I remember, Hey there is a great distance and divide between us. Not that it made me feel any better but my senses and thoughts were working quite acutely. Than all of a sudden, a bright light appeared and I looked up towards it. In the midst of this light there was a man smiling towards me. He appeared to be in front of a golden judge's bench that was huge. He kept right on smiling. He could like turn in a complete circle and still look at me. I was so amazed at this. My feeling started to change from complete helplessness to overwhelming love and comfort.

I asked is this GOD or JESUS? He kept looking at the bright light right above him. He was so bright and had the most beautiful colors surrounding him. I can't really describe it all in detail. I just can say you would have to be there yourself. He had a book on top of the bench opened. He kept gesturing to the light above him. But without him saying anything to me. I could feel like he was telling me I would not proceed into it. I remember seeing him two times and he gave me the same smile and looked into the light again, and then I was in the trauma center or intensive care unit.

I left the hospital on 01/13/2006 as a completely different person. I thought I knew GOD but I really didn't understand him. I saw premonitions concerning family members that came true. Nobody really understood how I was able to see things hours, days, and months, into future events that had not even happened yet. Some say I came back with a gift or gifts. I hold to no title. I just know that where I went and saw is just to real to ignore.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	January 6, 2006 through January 13, 2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Yes, more like a telepathic type thing.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Through the whole experience.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Lost, helplessness, joy, love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   non-denominational Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   non-denominational Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The ditch.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt like now I've seen everything.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The most eye opening experience.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kiko_m_nde.html