{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1khadija_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Khadija H NDE 2137","mylang":"de"}
          	        Khadija H NDE 2137  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Khadija H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						572  Khadija H NDE  2137  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I was living in Egypt at the time, working with a film crew. We often went riding in the desert. On this day, I was given a horse that I had never ridden. (I had a bad feeling not to ride this one, but ignored my feelings.) We were out in the desert in unfamiliar territory when she became spooked and ran away with me. I could not bring her to a stop and she continued racing over the desert. The last thing I remember seeing was a huge ditch that I knew she would not be able to jump across.

The next thing I remember was saying, 'I cannot breathe.' Then darkness. I was high above my body looking down when I next became aware. There were people around me. I did not care to return and turned around. At this time, I seemed so light and happy and could actually look down at the Sphinx below! I then saw another level of existence opening up, sort of like the scene from the movie 'Ghost'. Many beings had come to meet me. (I was astounded when I saw 'Ghost' after I returned to the states - it was really like that!) I was told that I could either come or go back, but that I would suffer great pain if I did. I remember making a choice, as I thought there was something else I needed to accomplish in this life.

I became aware of being in a van, and the film crew crying and calling out my name. The producer was gently slapping my face and trying to communicate with me. I was trying to open my eyes or move my hand but found that I could not do either, but I could hear them crying. (I have a sense of humor and remember thinking, 'The brain is just like a computer - it is down...') I then went into a comfort zone of soft darkness and remained there. I wondered if this was the state of death, it was so peaceful and womblike. Then I heard the doctor say:

'She has suffered a severe concussion. We do not know if she will live through the night.' More crying was heard. I wanted to laugh and tell them I had already made up my mind not to die and wanted to tease them, but could not get the body to respond.

I 'came to' sometime during the early morning with the worst headache I have ever had. They would not give me anything for the pain, as they were afraid it would send me into another coma. I had extremely heightened awareness and seemed to sense the higher being in every person who came into the room. Sort of like seeing an angel in everyone, or their higher being. It was beautiful. I was filled with so much love for humanity. I no longer have a fear of death.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1992  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury  Thrown from a horse. Landed on my head and sustained concussion. Was in a coma.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) I am not sure if I actually died or not. As the accident happened in the desert, but I remember that I could not breathe.  In a coma in the Desert. It took an hour for them to obtain a jeep to rescue me.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I saw colors and beauty that is difficult to put into words. I seemed to 'see' with another part of my being. I felt like energy.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Right after I departed from my body and became 'aware' of flying in the air high above the Sphinx.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I was aware of another dimension. One that was earthly, one that seemed to be a dream world, where it was a dark, womblike place, then another that was like a light land of great beauty and color, filled with beings.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Very vivid colors.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They seemed far away from me at the time. I was told that I could come or go back, it was my choice.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It seemed as though the place I could have gone to was like a 'Light Land' of great beauty. I did see other beings, but they were far away and above me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Yes. I saw the other dimension, which seemed to be a higher vibration or other place. Sort of like clouds opening to a Light Land...  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first confusion, then a bit of fear to the new experience. Then joy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This seemed to be a blessing to me that I could experience the 'other side' and know that there was no death in the sense we all fear.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     For a while, I seemed to see the 'higher self' in others, no matter what they said or did. Then after a while, this faded away.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have come to believe that we are NOT the body. Especially the brain. I see it as sort of a radio receiver that can be broken and unable to respond. I clearly wanted to talk to my friends when they were hysterical and crying to tell them, I was okay, but the brain was not functioning. I clearly remember being annoyed with my brain and knew it was like a sort of machine that was malfunctioning. I felt separate from the body, totally! Could not get it to work, or even move my fingers to tell them I was not dead!  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I want to let someone know it happened. After seeing the website I was very happy to share. Perhaps someone else will read it and feel at peace. I never experienced a memory of the actual accident, but the producer told me I flew fifty feet in the air and landed on my head. Sort of like Chris Reeves. No one could believe that I survived it.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even after the passing of the years, the experience is as clear in my memory as yesterday. I am very sure of its reality! Reality is a strange word to me. I have learned that we each have our own!  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to communicate with others who have had NDE.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?        This is wonderful! Thank you so much for your hard work. Especially interesting is the stories of people from other countries. Would like to see what children experience in NDE, as they are so pure and truthful. Would be interested in seeing what differences according to religion and country of NDE's all over the world.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1khadija_h_nde.html