{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1khanh_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Khanh V NDE 5436","mylang":"de"}
          	        Khanh V NDE 5436  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Khanh V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3267 Khanh V NDE 5436  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I heard a melody and I saw heavenly people floating in the air. They didn't talk to me but they looked nice. It was a dim but clear moonlit night with clouds floating in the air. The melody was perfect as I watched my body being carried by the villagers into someone's front yard. 

They shouted, ‘That inhuman Jeep driver who hit the man is trying to run away.’  I saw the Jeep in the moonlight turning off its lights and escaping from the scene (hit and run). The villagers tried their best to revive me, saying, ‘Mister, you can't die! Do you hear us? Come back! Come back! Don't die!’ Their voices were down there on the ground while I was high in the air. I was like in ecstasy and did not want to come back to my body. I forgot to say that a brief and distinctive review of my life, with complete details, was shown to me as soon as I came out of my body, but I was sucked back down into my body and heard the villagers' voices, now above my face.  The adventure had ended and I was sad to be back in this world. During the experience, I had felt no pain and no fear, instead, just a marvelous happiness.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident.  Other: Traffic accident. I was in a trauma and temporarily passed out.  I passed out and probably passed away for a short time at about 11pm. I saw a magnificent night view while being lifted up to the sky. It was dark but enlightening and interesting. I still love to think of it.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the air, then back to my head.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Somehow it changed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clearer, sharper.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Clearer, sharper.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A tunnel with light at the other end.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were like weightless people and they looked like clouds.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright and pleasing to the eyes.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Only there, above the accident theater.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I loved the new sphere I came to. It was better than this world.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw a clear review of my life, and it was pleasant.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I believed in God and still do.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I love God and I have found out the reasons that there are different religions and faiths. To each his own, I mean.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I love God and I have found out the reasons that there are different religions and faiths. To each his own, I mean.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have become another person. I love everyone or else I tolerate him or her, because everything is a dream and you don't blame people in your dreams.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I started to be able to foresee the future, and, in quite a few cases, view the distant past.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I have lots of things to tell you but I don't have the time. Please visit me at my home, as I am hard of hearing and too busy with my job to tell the stories.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They don't want to believe me. Therefore, I love you, as you and your group believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I always remember it. I always SEE it. I always LOVE it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I understand the reasons/causes of sicknesses.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Please visit me with all your questions.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1khanh_v_nde.html