{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1khat_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Khat H NDE 4394","mylang":"de"}
          	        Khat H NDE 4394  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Khat H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2186 Khat H NDE 4394  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I had my son I had a very rare case of Preeclampsia which caused my heart to stop beating during delivery of my son. They performed an emergency cesarean section, while trying to manually restart my heart. Once my son was delivered, they used the electric paddles on me. 

During the time of my son being pulled from my body, I was above my body looking down at the surgery. I heard someone calling my name and when I finally focused on where it was coming from, I saw a tall white man that looked like the paintings of Jesus. I walked over to him and he gave me the feeling of calm and serenity the closer I got to him. When I finally reached him, he told me that I had to go back. I did not understand why I had to leave. He took my hand and told me 'It is not time for you to come to me Khat.' I began to cry and begged him to let me stay with him, but he refused. As he was comforting me, he led me back to the space above the operating table and told me that I still had many things to do before I could see him again.

All of the sudden there was this sound, feeling, of my ears popping and WHOOSH! I was back in my body again. One of the nurses said 'She's conscious!' Then they placed an oxygen mask over my face and that is the last I remember. I was very ill and was still in the hospital unconscious again for over sixteen days. During this time period, the doctors would come and so would the nurses to perform tests and whatnot on my body. I was dying and there was nothing they could do to stop it. They had just announced this to my husband who was in the room with me (I was unconscious but could hear it all).

After they had left the room, I saw a bright light at the end of the hospital bed and again the man that looked like Jesus was there. I asked him if I could go NOW with him and he told me No as there was too much for me to do still. I wanted to go desperately with him.  I told him that there were other people who could finish up for me, but he told me emphatically NO!  He told me that I was put here to perform great works and that there was no one who could do these things, only me. I began to cry and told him I was tired and just wanted to be done already. He informed me that when the time came, he would allow me to come Home, but until I finished it was impossible. He took my hand and told me to not be saddened as what I was going to do was something that would help all of the human race. I hugged him and told him that I understood and then I turned and went back into my body, which was lying in the hospital bed. I woke up that afternoon at 3:00 pm. After being unconscious for sixteen days.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  9/1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My heart ceased to beat during childbirth surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When he was telling me that I had much to do.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When he was telling me that I had much to do.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard him breathing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Kind of foggy, misty.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus. He told me that I had great works to perform for humanity.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Like a million halogen light bulbs.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     very beautiful garden area

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was saddened and then calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I am a Jain

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Jain

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The works that he gave me.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. They thought I was dreaming.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew it was true.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know that Jesus sent me back.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1khat_h_nde.html