{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kerryanne_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Kerryanne M NDE 3394","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kerryanne M NDE 3394  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kerryanne M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1335 Kerryanne M NDE 3394  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Sometime during the operation, I became conscious and was freezing cold. I could smell a strong antiseptic odor, could hear a continual beep (which I guess was the heart monitor) and could hear conversation above me as people worked, and was aware of a tight clamping feeling over my abdomen. I tried desperately to let the staff know I'd awoken, but could not open my eyes or even move. So I just lay there hoping I'd sleep again when very suddenly the beeping sound started to quicken then leveled out - I knew what was happening and very calmly and clearly thought 'I'm dying' and felt no fear, which was surprising as up until then I'd always been terrified of death. Just as this happened I felt the most incredible feeling of everything just coming together inside me. It was the most beautiful feeling of warmth and joy. I felt myself rising upwards and was surprised that I could hear that level ringing sound so clearly, though I was not in my body. I didn't see anything or go through the tunnel, but do believe this will happen next time.

This was all very strange, because at that time I had just become involved with my current partner.  I was deeply in love and ecstatically happy, with dying being nowhere my desire, but that happiness does not compare with the very deep feeling of joy and totality I felt during this experience and I would give anything and everything to feel this way again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  March 1983

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening' I came awake during a cholecystectomy operation  It happened during my gallbladder removal.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was rising upwards.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was rising upwards.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was not aware of time at all during this.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Just pure joy.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   nil

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Things went very badly for a while years ago, but now I realize where I am wrong, and try to make the attempt to rectify what I can.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   It is difficult to explain the feeling of totality and wholeness.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sometimes I feel acutely aware of other people's pain.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        As I said at the time I wasn't ready to go, so the joy I felt when it was happening was a surprise and that is what I've never forgotten and want back so badly.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately I came awake in recovery I told a close friend who was there. I also tried to tell staff nurses, surgeon etc.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Please see above answer.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Lately I've been having such a strong desire to go that I'm close to doing something about it to experience more of what might have continued. However I'm aware that maybe it would be different if I did this, but the memory I have of it is like no other.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I came awake during another operation in 1992, and was actually in the middle of sharing an old joke with an eleven year old girlfriend that only we knew about. I can't really work that out.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I truly do believe that life after death is true and real, and I'm looking forward to more experiences when my time does come, I pray that I will be understood, and I look forward and slightly fear the review, so at least I too will discover things about myself that I am unsure about now.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kerryanne_m_nde.html