{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 7652","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n70_may_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N70 May 1890","mylang":"de"}
No. LU.- VOl,. IV
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONT ENTS.
A Correet.ion •• ••
•"Ibe Gift of D. D. Home" .• .. ••
CUM Received by the Llte1'lU')' Committee
A 0&Ie ofDouble Pel'8OnaUty . • ••
Hypnotism &8 an ADIl',sthotic
~I'I'88pOQlIenCl8 :-
Art' APparltlo~Obective or l'!ubJeotive!
. IIIwdon8 JlYJI qUI!II. • •• ••
Supplen.entarJ Llbft\fY wogue . . ..
A CORRECTION.
PAGB
•• 249
.• 2'9
•• I!5S
.. 258
•• 2S9
•• 262
•• 263
•• 2114
In the Journal for November, 1889, in the report of a recent
General Meeting, an account was given by me of a paper by a lady,
who wished to be called Miss X. On more careful study of the diaries
there mentioned I regret to find that this account was in certain
important respects inaccurate. I wish, therefore, to withdraw my
description entirely before the paper appears, lest any blame should
attach to the author of the paper, who is in no way responsible for
the statement made, and has, as will be seen, been scrupulously careful
to avoid in her account anything like exaggeration of the marvellous
element in her experiences. For the actual facts of the case I must
refer the reader to the paper itself, which it is hoped will appear in an
early number of the Proceedings. F. W. H. M.
"THE GIFT OF D. D. HOME."1
Madame Home has followed up her Life of D. D. Home by
another collection of the evidence to her late husband's powers i-a.
collection which, together with what we have printed from Mr. Crookes
and others, probably nearly completes such record as is now possible.2
1rladrune Home has worked with care and thoroughness, and there is a.
good deal of fresh matter, although mostly in a. fragmentary form.
In the first place it is remarkable-and in reviewing the earlier book in
the Journal for July, 1889, we had already been struck with the fact-
that no attack of any weight or consequence seems to have been made
on the facts recorded in the Life.
If the phenomena. were due to fraud, this total absence of detection,
I The Gift 01 D.D. Home. By Madame Dunglas Homt'. (Kegan Paul,Trench,Trilbner
and Co., 1890.) 388 pagCll.
, See also an article by Mr. HamiltQn Aide, .. Was I HypDotisoo!" in th~
Ninmtn'A. Cemury for April,I890.
Digitized by Google
250 JOltl'nul oj Soci.ety JUl' Psych·ical Resecwclt. [1\Ia)".1800.
cxtel)ding o\,el' a career of 11 quarter of a century, would be unparalleled
and almost inexplicable'!
It is obser\'able, moreover, that most of the more mal'vellous phen().
mena were already pl'Oduced at the \'ery beginning of Home's career.
In an account fl'Om !Ir. }'. L. Burl', editor of the llartfoi'cl Times, the
following points are mentioned lI.S occurring ill Connecticut, August,
1852. (1) Table moves violently in bl'Oad daylight without contact.
(2) Levitation of Home (this in the dark. but feet felt). (3) Bell in
dim light lifted and carried, und rung, by fllintly visible spirit hand,
(4) Luminous Imnd shakes hands of sitters at a. distance from Home.
(5) Table lifted entirely into ail', without contact, ill broad daylight.
)11'. Burl' gets on it and is lifted upon it and at last is slid off from it.
A state of mind logically much more curious than tha.t of simple
disbelief is described in some quotations from Hawthorne's Note Books,
pp. 102·3. After describing some marvels, which he accepts as facts
on Mr. Powers' authority, Hawthorne adds: "What most astonished
me is the indifference with which I listen to these marvels. They
throw old ghost stories quite into the shade; they bring the whole
world of spirits down amongst us, visibly and audibly; they are abso.
lutely proved to be sobel' facts by evidence that would satisfy us of any
other alleged realities; and yet I cannot force my mind to interest
itself in them. They are facts to my understanding, which it might
have been anticipated would have been the last to acknowledge them,
but they seem not to be facts to my intuitions and deep perceptions."
Can any conclusion be more impotent and barren' Yet Hawt,horne
(it is needless to say) lacked neither intelligence nor candour. What
he did lack was dispassionate scientific curiosity; the habit of regard.
ing the universe as a complex of problems, no one of which can be pre.
judged, but anyone of which lllay conceivably be resolved by definite
observation and experiment. And let certain of our correspondents
note that "intuitions and deep perceptions" can cut both ways, and
that while their own intuitions as to the truth of certain tenets may
be so cogent that they deem it superfluous to aid our plodding inquiry,
other people's intuitions may make for just the opposite view; and
where is the intuitive umpire who shall settle it between them 7
lt will be well, perhaps, to give the remainder of my space to a
continuation of the list given in our previous review of cases where
there is some first-hand evidence for tbe identity of an alleged com·
municating spirit. ltis,of course, impossible now to know what informa.
tion Mr. Home may have possessed with regard to the family affairs of
1 For a discussion of a phraae of Mr. T. A. Trollope's see pp. 11·14. It seems
clear that Mr.Trollope's doubt was only as to the origin of theme88&get!, &:c.,-what he
terms the" metaphysical phenomena."
Digitized by Google
May, 11190.] Jowrnal Of Society fOl' Psyckical Reseal·clt. 251
any sitter; but in mlLny of the cases to be cited such preyious know-
ledge on his part seems, fOi' various reltsons, to have been regarded It!!
out of the question. In other ca~es there arc physical I:!igns, hands, &c.,
illustrating the asserted identity.
Page41.-Mr. Burr'lI testimony. Name and symbolism (tosllillg all ofthe
sea) given to un apparent IItmnger. 'l'able moves untouchcd by anyone.
Page 77.-Dr. Garth Wilkinson. Sister prematurely born, of tvlWlle
e.l:i~tellee D,·. W. clill not knolV, is describe<l, and small hand seen.
Page 81.-Mr. Rymer receives a luesBl\ge from an aunt Dorothy, of 1OhoSll
Ill!isten.ce he did flut lmoll'. Finds afterwards that he had a half-aunt of that
name.
Page 89.-Mrs. Clarke. Child's spirit gives name of "Doady," a pet
Rame for George, not believed to be known to anyone present except Mrs. C.
Gestures mimicking favourite action of child-puffing out and patting his
cheeks.
Page IOl.-Mr. Powers, the sculptor, reported by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
Recognised hands and gesture: special sign given by touch; prick of pen-
knife on back of both Mr. and Mrs. Powers' hands in reply to question,
"What was the last present given to the departed child 1"
Page 112.-Mrs. Eric Baker. Important communication on family affairs
given by pressure on knees, while alphabet ia so held that no one can see it.
Page 116.-Mr. Jencken's friend (anonymous). Tune given with changed
notes; the variation only known to two living persons and one dea.<l.
Page 118.-Captain Chawner. Accordion plays in style imitating touch
of grandfather on organ, with peculiar quaver at close.
Page 150.-Mrs. MakDougall Gregory. Pearl brought (as an "apport ")
to mother of a girl who had been known by the pet name of "Motie," or
" Mootie," which, it appears, is Hindustani for "Pearl."
Page 151.-The same informant. Home personates Margaret Christy, a
former servant in the family of a gentleman present. She had been drowned r
40 years ago, and some suspicion had fallen on a fellow-servant, which shc
Beemed anxious to remove.
Page 157.-Mrs. Brancker. Three names givcn-one of friend not
known to be dead, one of a friend never called by Christian name.
Page 164.-Mrs. Brunker (not same person). Two Christian names and
Burnames rapped out and characteristic messages. "These two ladies"
(Mrs. Brunker and her daughter) "were utter strangers to all in the room;
even their names were unknown."
Page 172.-Mrs. Honywood. Initials of name given of Miss Lockhart,
and grasp of chamcteristic hand.
Page 286.-Lord Adare (now Lord Dunraven). Private particulars as to
deceased friend given.
Page 298.--Mr. Alexander Keith, "u complete stl'anger to Mr. Home."
H. W. K. (initials of son) spelt out hy touches on Mr. Keith's knee, and a
saying of the boy's correctly given.
Page 306.-'V. Crookes and othors. Message fl'Om "James Fitz-Henry,"
sent to Mrs. Senior.
About sixteen cases where identity was stl'Ongly suggested are thus
Digitized by Google
252 Journal of Society for Psychical BeseaTch. [M.y.l890.
added to the previous list. In two cases the fact given was unknown
to the inquirer. In one case (Mr. Powers) it was given in reply to a.
question. Many of the other cases we have cited are not reported
with sufficient detail to enable us to appraise their value.
These cases, and the fresh evidence for the physical phenomena,
form an important addition to the previous volume. But it is impos-
sible not to sympathise with Madame Home's indignation at the small
proportion which the properly recorded seances bear to the total num-
ber given by Home. She is justly severe on the timidity, selfishness,
carelessness, indolence, ingratitude of the majority of Home's sitters,
who after begging seances.from him-often with indecorous impor-
tunity-were unwilling to make the trifling return of an attested
narrative of what they had witnessed. Madame Home, on the. other
hand, very naturally sees nothing but courtesy and generosity in Home's
abstinence from any demand for such testimony. But, speaking not as a
critic of Home's character, but as an inquirer into truth, I am bound
to say that Home's kindness or indifference on such points was as
grave an intellectual error in himself as in his sitters. Such phenomena."
as those under discussion belonged properly neither to Home himself
nor to his sitters, but to science as trustee for mankind. Suppose that
I accidentally discovered a specific remedy for cancer, and by it cured
some friends of that disease. What would be thought of myself and
my friends if we refrained from giving the remedy to the world or
recounting the cures in proper deWl,-my friends beoause they did not
wish to be known to have had cancer, and I because I did not wish to
offend them 1 Yet Home's sitters were wont to declare to him that
their seanoe had brought them the most blessed assuranoes of immor-
tality-and then to beg that, for private reasons, nothing more might
be said about it.
The fact is that, with the notable exoeption of Mr. Crookes, hardly
anyone who watohed Home's oareer seems to have been able to realise
that these phenomena, like all other phenomena whatever, are primarily
the oonoern of scienoe, in so much that before they can be referred
either to known oauses or to unknown, derided as imposture or revered
as revelation, we must actually observe and record them; observe them
with that dispassionate care, record them with that scrupulous accuracy
from which alone we should expect results of value in any other field.
This simple dogma,-this mere insistence on dispassionate observa.
tion, accurate record in every department of human inquiry,-is, if I
may so say, the sole official tenet of the Society for Psychical Research.
Neither Spiritualist nor Sadducee can afford, we think, to ignore it.
Let us preach it as often as we find opportunity, and let us practise it
~~asft~ ~~KE
Digitized by Google
May, 1890.] JO'U1"lutl of Society f01' Psychical Research. 253
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
The twa following cases ha.ve but one point in common, but that is
an important one evidentially. It is that written accounts of the
experiences were communicated to us within two days of their
occurrence, less than three months ago.
L. 1073. Ae pn VISUAL AND AUDITORY.
From Mr. E. White, who prefers not to publish his address.
FebrU(u'Y 23rd, 1890.
I am an old man-in my 87th year-in fairly good health. On the
night before Saturday,the 22nd inst., I awoke, and looking out, sawstanding
beside my bed the person by whom I am regularly called every morning.
Instead, however, of her usual question-I hope you are well, or I hope you
have had a good night-she said, "This is a bad day for you." I tried to
think what it was that I had intended to do for which the weather-to which
I thought she referred-could be "bad," and finding nothing in my
mind, was about to question her on this subject when I saw her going to-
wards the door and did not stop her. I then looked to see if, as was her
custom, she had lighted my gas-fire, and found she had not. I then began to
speculate as to her motive for calling me thus early-2.10 a.m., but could
find no satisfactory solution. I should not, I think, omit to mention that
a bright gaslight was burning in my room at the time, or that I have never at
any period of my life been subject to mental or other hallucinations.
I found, on inquiry yesterday, that my visitor was seriously unwell,
had been so during the night, and never out of bed. I cannot, of course, in
her present condition, question her on the subject; but when she recovers,
as the doctor says she will, I will do so and let you know the result.
EDMUND WHITE.
Later, Mr. White adds:-
March 5th, 1890.
The person I saw and about whom I wrote is now quite well. She is
quite certain that she did not go to my room on the night mentioned. She
was, in fact, unable to leave her bed then, or for four or five days aft-er-
wards.
I ought, I think, to tell you that to avoid the trouble of housekeeping with
modern servants I have lived in lodgings, with some exceptions, during the
last 12 years, always with the same landlady. She has also two otherlodgers
-a lady and gentleman, brother and sister--who, though some 12 or 14 years
yowlger than myself, are both old, and not likely to come to my room; and
had they done so, could not possibly be mistaken, especially in the light of
my room, for the person I saw. The two other lodgers, my landlady, and
myself all sleep on the same landing; and, on account of my age, a bell that
I could ring in case of necessity has been put in her room; but exccpt once,
to try its effect, I have never had occasion to ring it. The other occupants
of the house sleep lower down. I had no cause for anxiety respccting my
landlady's health and felt none, for although not quite well for a few days
previously, it was only on the night mentioned that her illness became
serious, and I only heard ofits being so on the following day.
Digitized by Google
254 JO'l.wnal 0/ Society /0'1' P81Jckical Re8ew·clt. (May, 1890.
My bedroom door is never locked, but the light enables me to see every-
thing very clearly; and I had the evidence of two senses, namely, seeing and
hearing.
My landlady is a healthy person, neither afRicted with sleep-walking nor
any other complaint that I know of. Her room is not more than three yards
from mine.
And again on March 13th he writes !-
My landlady has no recollection of anything in particular, except that, on
the night mentioned, she was in great pain, and slept, if at all, very little.
She is, however, quite certain that she did not cven get out of bod, much less
leave her own room, during the night. Neither she nor I can suggest any
cause for the appearance.
The figure seen was as distinct as if met with in the street-nothing dream-
like about it. I looked to see if my fire had been lighted. and then at my
watch to see tho time. My landlady can suggest no cause for the words,
"This is a bad day for you," except that during the night "she thought she
was going to die. "
The landlady kindly fUl'llishes her account of the night in question
as follows :-
JIurch 14th. 1890.
Hr. White has shown me your letters. You wish me to state a few par-
ticulars as to the night in question. I had been ill all the day, was obliged
to go to bed early in the evening. Mr. White himself had been in bed all that
day until tho evening; he had been su1fering from a sore throat and cold. I
had been attending him. I think he became II. little anxious about my state
of health although he did not know I was so ill as I was. I thought I should
die, I felt 80 ill through the night, but I a1l1 quite 8l!I'C I did not leave my
bed. I was ill with infiuellZll for about foul' or five days after that.
I have known Mr. White for 20 years; be having been a friend of lily
husband's, I naturally feel a very great regard for him and take a deep
interest in most things that he doell.
------
P. 131. Cl. DRE.UI.
From Commander J!'. 1\1. Norma11, R.N., J.P., of Berwick.
Cheviot House, Berwick-on-Tweed.
Feln"llllry 19th, 1890.
On Fehruary 17th, 1890, I dreamed that I was driving, or being driven,
along the road near 111y house in an open cart with one horse. A man wh011l
I saw pusing called out loudly, "Look out, look out, take care!" On
looking over the side of the cart, I saw the wheel had come off, apparcntly
owinll to the losl! of the linch-pin, aud was rolling away by itself towards tho
bank. The cart did not overtunl, and I then awoke and got up.
After brenkfast I opellellmy ~rate for the 11ll1'1'0SO of going to toWll. The first
person whom I saw wns a f1l111101', well known to 11Ie, by name Audersoll. He
immediately c011lplained to me that as 800n nt! he went out of hit! house that
monting he obl!6rved one of the linch-pms of hil! cart lying 011 the ground,
the cart itself hnving been llriven off by his son, who was evidently ignorant
of his danger. Anderson had rUll after the cart, and had succeeded ill
Digitized by Google
May, 1890.] JouI'nal Of Societ,lJ fOI' P8ychical Re8ea,·clt. 255
restoring the linch-pin to its place without any accidcnt having happened,
though the cart had travelled more than a mile.
I may add that he said that it had been done, he felt sure, 011 purpose,by
a man who owed him a grudge. F. M. NORMAN.
In a subsequent letter our infonnant adds :-
Ma1'ch 6th, 1890.
After I dreamed, I woke. I woke just as I saw the wheel rolling away.
Then I went to sleep again aud woke at the usual time for getting up. I am
not able to fix the hour of the drealll.
I cannot give or suggest any connecting link at all. I had not spoken to
the fanner for many days before, and nothing beyond .. Good-morning" for
weeks, and certainly I had not been reading or talking about anything that
would lead up to the drealll.
It is notable that the cart of Illy drennl in which I was standing up was a
one-horse fann cart. In such a cart I have never set foot since I came to
this place 13 years ago.
I spoke to 110 one about my dream till I met the fanner, who was the first
person whom I met, just outside my gate, and he at once accosted me with,
.. Captain, did you ever lose your helm at sea 1" Not seeing exactly his
drift, I asked him why, or what he meant, and then ho told me where he
had been, and what for.
The fanner was not a man who would be likely to come to me for help
or advice. His Bon was in my Bible-class for years, and I used to call
now and then to see the parents, but that is aU. Not the son in the cart.
At the same time, also, the farmer would, no doubt, often tllillk of Ille, and so
would his family, as I take a prominent part in public affairs here.
My dreanlS are few and far between, and are 1!.e1lI·l·y Ul100YIl about tho sea
and early recollections.
If I eat anything that causes "nightmare" it takes the fornlof .. dodging"
shells ill the trenches before Sevastopol, where I served.
I don't dream of Berwick, its people, or surroundings, more than once in
three years.
My dreams, few and far between, are of the sea in the early days of my
profe88ional career.
Captain Norman writes again on March 10th, 1890:-
Herewith I have pleasure in sending you" statelllents" by the Anderson
family. You will observe that Margaret's dream arrests attention in two
particulars. (1) That she dreamed about me on the night before the cart was
taken out. (2) That she dreamed about the child of the num whom her
fatIter suspected. I may say that when I met her fatIter outside my gate, he
mentioned Z. as the suspected person; but in my account to you, I be-
lieve I purposely lIuppre88ed the name.
.:\nderBOn declares that I ha\'o not becn mentioned hlSide his home for a
lung timc beforo tIto uccurrcnco. F. M. NORllAN.
Statement by Mr..Andel'l!on, Farlnor,High Grecns, Berwick-on-Tweed :-
Between nine and ten on the morning of Tuesday, February 18th, 1890, I
went out into my yard, and I at onoe observed a linch-pin lying in a comer
Digitized by Google
256 Jcurrtd of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. [May, 1890.
close to the place where my cart usually stands. It immediately struck me
that some one who owed me a grudge had taken the pin out of the axle
before my cart had been driven oft' to my meadow by my son. 1 lost no
time in pursuing the cart, which 1 caught up just beyond Oaptain Norman's
gate. Fortunately no accident had happened, and my son WIlo8 not aware
that anything was wrong. 1 gave him the pin and he replaced it. Directly
afterwards Oaptain Norman came out of his gate, and on my telling him the
nature of my errand he said that he had dreamed during the pa.st night that
he WIlo8 driving in a cart along the road, and one wheel rolled off for want
of 110 linch-pin.
MICHAEL ANDERSON.
Statement by Peter, son of the above:-
About 9.30 a.m. on Tuesday, February 18th, 1890, 1 harnessed my
father's horse to the farm cart, and drove past Oaptain Norman's house in
the direction of our meadows. Just after 1 had pllo8sed OaptainNorman's gate
1 heard someone shouting after me. On looking round I saw my father,
who ran up and produced our linch-pin which he said someone had taken out
~efore 1 started, but 1 had noticed nothing wrong, and the wheel was in its
place. 1 replaced the pin and proceeded.
Witness to the above two signatures:-
PETER ANDERSON.
MAIwARET ANDERSON.
Statement by Margaret Anderson, daughter of Mr. Anderson, Farmer.
On the night of Monday, February 17th, 1890, 1 dreamed that 1 WIlo8 ina
barn, in which was a heap of com, near the edge of which was a child walking
about whom 1 recognised 1108 the son of 1\ man called Z., who is not on
good terms with my father. Then someone said to me, .. Oaptain Norman
hllo8 paid off his man." I laughed at the absurdity of the dream, and woke
laughillg.
MA.RGA.RET .ANDERSON.
Statement by Mary Anderson, sister of the above :-
1 sleep with my sister. On Tuesday morning, February 18th, 1890, or
some time during that day (I can't remember the exact .time), my sistei'
Margaret said, .. I had a very curious,.dream last night. I dreamt that 1
saw Z.'s child in a barn and 1 believe it was Z.'s son who took the linch-
pin out."
P. 132. VISUAL.
Sent to us by Mr. G. E. Pope. .
It seems hardly possible to prove that a prediction works its own
fulfilment, but the following seems to be as marked a case of the kind
as we are likely to get. The writer is Dr. Beddoe, F.R.S. In a later
letter he states that he does not recollect the date of the occurrence,
but thinks it was somewhere about 1875.
The Manor House, Clifton, Brist,ol.
November 4th, 1889.
I send you pal,ticulars of the curious and fatal case'of morbid impreuion
Digitized by Google
May, 1890.] JO'l.wnal of Society for Psychical Resea1·ch. 257 .
which you take interest in. You are at liber~y to make whatever use you
please of the history.
Captain B., of Apenrade, on a voyage to Bristol, had on board a young
lad, I believe a relation of his, to whom he was much attached. The boy
had been strictly forbidden to climb the rigging, but while coming up the
Channel he disobeyed the injunction, and falling from a yard to the deck
was killed on the spot. Captain B. brought the body to Bristol, and it
was buried in the Amos Vale Cemetery; after which the captain took to
his bed.
I saw him three or four days afterwards, in consultation with Dr. David
Davies. The latter had said to me: "I want your help; my patient has no
disease that I can make out, but he has resolved to die, and die I believe he
will." The captain was a robust man of middle age,educated and intelligent,
and speaking English well. I examined him and could find no sign of disease,
except that the body-heat was a little raised, perhaps to 99'5 or so. After
some questioning. he opened his heart to us, and told us that on the night
after the boy's funeral, while he was lying broad awake, the dcad boy had
appeared to him, stood by his bedside, and said words to this effect: "Ah !
Captain B., you lie in your bed this night, but within a week you will be
like me" (or, .. you will lie by me"). ., I know it will be so," said tile
Captain, "I shall die on Friday."
We reasoned with him, of course, and did all we could, both by encourage-
mentand by a supporting regimen and treatment, to sustain the vital powers ;
his brother, who had been telegraphed for, seconded our efforts; but all was
in vain; poor B. died on the appointed day.
JOHN BEDDOE.
B.P. 18. VISUAL.
A somewhahimilar ot\Ie was described by Dr. S.Willard in the St. Louis
Courier (if Medicine, for September, 1884, but from a recollection of 50 years
before. In this case the patient appears to bave seen three phantasmal men
in his room one night-one of whom told him that he would be seized with
Ihaking soon after midday the next day and die before sunset. In the
morning his wife sent for Dr. Willard, who found nothing the matter with
him; nor did another physician who was called in. The man himself said he
was quite well butbad a settled cOllviction that all would happen as predicted,
which it did.
It is possible that in another way the following dream may have
brought about its own fulfilment.
B.P.16. DREAM.
Mr. W. D.• who was in the babit of driving and known to be a daring
driver, dreamt that the horses ran away with him and killed him. He men-
tioned his dream to the groom, who testifies to the fact, and who replied,
.. You really must be careful." That afternoon, driving alone, he was killed.
He had been rather unwilling to drive that day, but was not in the habit of
attaching importance to dreams and omens.
Date of occurrence, 1881. Date of record, 1884.
Digitized by Google
258 Journal oj Society JUl' Psyckica,l Resea1'ch. rMIIY, 1890.
DOUBLE PERSONALITY: MEMORY OF THE SECONDARY
STATE REVIVED BY HYPNOTI8.M.
Dr. Proust, Professor of Hygiene at the Hotel Dieu of Paris, has
recently brought before the Academie des Sciences JIoralcs et Politiqucs
a vel'y interesting case of "Ambulatory Automatism in a Hysterical
Man," or, as it might othel'wise be phrased, of double personality with
an active second self.
We give a brief resume from the RelJue de l'llypnotislne, March,
1890, p. 267.
Emile X., mt. 33, is a barrister in Paris; of good ability and edu-
cation in classical studies, both as a boy and at the University. He was
always nervous amI over sensitive,with sOllie hysterical attacks and functional
derangements of motion and sensat.ion, signs in fact of "la grande hysteric."
He could be hypnotised very easily, and whilst M. Luys had him in charge
he could be put to sleep by a loud noise, or any sudden impression. One
day in a cafc he saw himself in the looking-glass and at once fell into a hyp-
nutic state which frightened his friends and led them to take him tu a hos-
pital, where he recovered without any difficulty. Sometimes his attacks were
different; he would seem to his companions to undergo no loss of conscious-
ness, but would lose the memory of all his past life during a few minutes or
a few days and in this condition of secondary consciousness would lead an
active and apparcntly normal life on foot or 011 horseback, in his friends'
houses or in shops. From such a state he woke suddenly and was entirely
without memory of what had happened to him in this secondary state. An
instance of this occurred on September 23rd, 1888. He had had a quarrel
with his stepfather in Paris, which had oxcited him considerably, and he fell
into his second state. Three weeks lator ho woke after his usual fashion,
withuut any memory whatever of what had been happening, and fOlUld him-
self at Villars-Saint-Marcelin,in the Hauto Marne, more than 100 miles from
Paris. He picked up from various sources a little knowledge of what he had
clone. He was told he had visited the priest of the village, who had thought
him "odd"; tluJ.t he had also stayod with one of his uncles who was a Bishop
in the Haute Marne, and at his house had broken various things, and torn
up some MSS. of his uncle j that he had run into debt to the extent of £20,
and that he had been summoned before the Court at Vassy on some charge
of petty theft, and in his absence judgment had been given against him.
Again, on May 11th, 1~89, he was breakfasting at a restaurant in Paris,
and two days later found himself at Troye!:!. Of what had happened during
these two days he could remember nothing. He recollected that before
losing his consciousness he had had a great coat and a purse in it containing
226fr.
These facts romilldoll Prufessor ProWlt uf tho well-knowlI 01180 of
Ftllida X., and of the more recent case of Louis V. (Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research, XI., 497), in which the memory of the secondary
personality was recalled by hypnotism. Emile X. was easily hypnotised,
and ill that state could ~ive a full account of what had happened to him in
May. 1890.] Journal of Society f01' Psyckical Research. 259
his statesof secondary personality. In his first of these two attacks he de-
scribed how he had lost some of the £20 at cards, and told the complete
story of what he had done when staying with his uncle the Bishop, and after-
wards with the priest. In the saille way as to his visit to Troyes, he told the
details of his journey, of the friends he had dined with there, and where he
had left his overcoat and purse. Notes were taken of his hypnotic account,
and on the strength of these he wrote to the hotel keeper at Troyes asking
for his coat and purse, and describing where he hac:lleft them. Two days
later, to his great astonishment, he received them both, and the 226fr. in the
purse. The Court at Vassy ulso, when his true condition had become
known, reversed the judgment gi\'en against him.
HYPNOTISM AS AN AN1ESTHETIC.
We reprint here an article which appeared simultaneouslylast month
(April 5th) in the Lancet and the Bntisl'l1fedical Journal, describing
the very valuable and eminently practical demonstrations which a
Member of the Society for Pyschical Research,Dr. J. Milne Bramwell,has
given to a distinguished and critical assembly at Leeds, of the attainment
by hypnotism of an anmsthesia profound enough to admit without
consciousness of the performance of surgical operations which are
otherwise very painful.
A number of the leading medical men and dentists of Leeds and district
assembled at the kind invitation of Messrs. Carter Brothers and Turner,
Dental Surgeons, of Park-square, Leeds, on March 28th, to witness a series
of surgical and dental operations perfonned in their roomll under hypnotic
influence, induced by Dr. Milne Bramwell, of Goole, Yorkshire. Great
interest was evinced in the meeting, as it is well known t.hat Dr. Brnmwell is
quite a master of the art of hypnotism as applied to medicine and surgery,
and is shortly .to publish a work of considerablu importance on the subject.
Upwards of 60 medical men and dental surgeons accepted invitations.
Amongst those gentlemen present were the following :-Mr. Thos. Scatter-
good (Dean of the Yorkshire College), Professor Wardrop Griffith, Mr.
Pridgin Teale, F.R.S., Professor Eddison, Dr. Jacob, Dr. Churtou, Mr.
Mayo Robson, Mr. H. Bendela.ck Hewetson, Mr. Nicol, Mr. Moynillan,
Mr. Littlewood,Mr. Henry Gott,Mr. Cheetham,Mr. Edmund Robinson, Mr.
William Hall, Dr. Brnithwaite, Mr. Best, Mr. Wood, Dr. Light, Dr. Caddy,
Professor McGill, Dr. Turner (Menston Asylum), Dr. Hartley; Dr. Hellier,
Mr. W. H. Brown, Dr. Bruce (Goole),Mr. Dennisoll, Mr. Edward Ward,Mr.
H. Robson, Mr. King, Mr. Gla.isby, Mr. Sherburn, and Mr. Wayles. A
letter, expressing his regret at his inability to be present, was read from Dr.
Clifford Allbutt, in which he lihtec:l that he remembered the time, 35 years
ago, wben LiKton performed Kevernl SOriOUK operntiulls, using hypnotism as
the anresthetie applied by a scientific lay fliend,in Lincolnshire. Mr. Jessop
\\'as also prevented at the last mOIllent from being present.
The object of the meeting was to show the power of hypnotism to produce
absolute Bm6stltesis in very painful and severe operations. The first caso
Digitized by Google
260 Jou1"nal oj Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1890.
brought into the room was that of a woman, aged 25. She was hypnotised
at a word by Dr. Bramwell, and told she was to submit to three teeth being
extracted, without pain, at the hands of Mr. Thomas Carter; and further,
that she was to do anything thllt Mr. Carter asked her to do (such as to open
her mouth, and spit out, and the like) as he required her. This was perfectly
successful. There was no expression of pain in the face, no cry, and when
told to awake she said she had not the least pain in the gums, nor had she felt
the operation. Dr. Bramwell then hypnotised her, and ordered her to leave
. the room and go upstairs to the waiting~room. This she did as a complete
somnambulist.
The next case was that of a servant girl, M. A. W., aged 19, on whom,
under the hypnotic influence induced by Dr. Bramwell, Mr. Hewetsoll had a
fortnight previously opened and scmped freely, without knowledge or pain,
a large lachrymal abscess, extending into the cheek. Furthermore, the
dressing had been daily performed and the cavity freely syringed under
hypnotic anresthesia, the "healing suggestions" being daily given to the
patient, to which Dr. Bramwell in a. great measure attributes the very
rapid healing, which took place in 10 days-a remarkably short space of
time in a girl by no means in a good state of health. She was put to sleep by
the following letter from Dr. Bramwell addressed to Mr. Turner;-
"Burlington-crescent, Goole, Yorks. Dear Mr. Turner,-I send you a
patient with enclosed order. When you give it her she will fall asleep at once
and obey your commands.
"J. MILNE BRAMWELL."
"Order.-Go to sleep at once, by order of Dr. Bramwell, and obey Mr.
Turner's eOlUDlands.
"J. MILNE BRAMWELL."
This experiment answered perfectly. Sleep was induced at once by read-
ing the note, Ilnd was so profound that, at the end of a lengthy opera-
tion in which sixteen stumps were removed, she awoke smiling, and insisted
that she had felt no pain, and, what was reml~rk&ble, there wall no pain in her
mouth. She was found after some time, when unobserved, reading the
Graphic in the waiting-room, as if nothing had happened. During the whole
time she did everything which Mr. Turner suggested, but it was observed
that there was a diminished flow of saliva, aud that the corneal reflexes were
absent, the breathing more noisy than ordinarily, aud the pulse slower.
Dr. Bmmwell took occasion to explain that the next case, a boy aged
eight, was a severe test, and would probably not succeed; partly because
the patient was so young, and chiefly because he had not attempted to pro-
duce hypnotic anresthesia earlier than two days before. He also explained
that patients require training in this form of anresthesia, the time of train-
ing, or preparation, varying with each individual. However, he was so far
hypnotised that he allowed Mr. Mayo Robson to operate on the great toe,
removing a bony growth and part of the first phalanx,with no more than a few
cries towards the close of the operation, and with the result that, when
questioned afterwards, he appeared to know very little of what had been
done.
It was necessary ill his ease for Dr. Bramwell to repeat the hypnotic,
Digitized by Google
May,1890.] Journal of Society J01' P8y'chical Re8earch. 261
suggestions. Dr. Bramwell remarked that he wished to show a case that was
less likely to be perfectly successful than the others, so as to enable those pre-
sent to lIee the difficult as well as the apparently easy, straightforward cases,
" in fact," as he said, "to show his work in the rough."
The next case was a girl of 15, highly sensitive, requiring the removal
of enlarged tonsils. At the request of Dr. Bramwell, Mr. Hewetson was
enabled in the hypnotic state to extract each tonsil with ease, the girl, by
suggestion of the hypnotiseI', obeying every request of the operator, though
in a state of perfect anoosthesia. In the same way Mr. Hewetson removed a
cyst, of the size of a horse bean, from the side of the nose of a young woman
who was perfectly anoosthetised and hreathing deeply, and who, on coming
round by order, protested "that the operation had not been commenced."
Mr. Turner then extracted two teeth from a man with equal success; after
which Dr. Bramwell explained how his patient had been completely cured
of drunkenness by hypnotic suggestion. To prove this to those present,
and to show the interesting psychological results, the man was hypnotised,
and in that state he was shown a glass of water; he was told by Dr. Bram-
well it was" bad beer." He was then told to awake, and the glass of water
offered him by Dr. Bramwell; he put it to his lips, and at once spat out
the "offensive liquid." Other interesting phenomena were illustrated
and explained by means of this patient, who was a hale, strong working
man.
Mr. T. S. Carter next extracted a very difficult impacted stump from a
railway navvy, as successfully as the previous case. Dr. Bramwell described
how this man had been completely cured of very obstinate facial neuralgia
by hypnotism, which had been produced by working in a wet cutting. On
the third day of hypnotism the neuralgia had entirely disappeared (now
some weeks ago) and had not returned. The man had obtained refreshing
hypnotic sleep at nights, being put to sleep by his daughter through a note
from Dr. Bramwell, or by a telegram, both methods succeeding perfectly.
At the conclusion of this most interesting and successful series of hypno-
tic experiments, a vote of thanks to Dr. Bramwell for his kindness in giving
the demonstration was proposed by Mr. Scattergood, Dean of the Yorkshire
College, and seconded by Mr. Pridgin Teale, F.R.S., who remarked that
the experiments were deeply interesting, and had been marvellously success-
ful, and said: "I fecI sure that the time has now come when we shall have
to recognise hypnotism as a necessary part of our study."
The vote was carried by acclamation.
Messrs. Carter Brothers and Turner were cordially thanked for the great
s::ientific treat that they had so kindly prepared for the many to whom hypno-
tism had been first introduced that day, and for the further opportunity
(afforded to the few who had seen Dr. Bramwell's work previously) of studying
its application as an anoosthetic.
Mr. Henry Carter replied for the firm and the meeting closed, the
patients looking as little like patients lIf> perf>ons well could, giving neither
by their manners nor expression the slightest Ruggestion (except when
external dressings were visible) that they had suffered, or were suffering
from, in some cases, severe surgical interference..
262 Jouil'nal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1890.
CORRESPONDENCE.
ARE APPARITIONS OBJECTIVE OR SUBJECTIVE?
We have received fl'Om Mr. Doveton a rejoinder to MI'. Myers'
lettel' ill the last numbel' of the JOMl'nal. To print it at length might
Pl'Olong the controversy unduly; but in justice to Mr. Dovetoll, we
print the passages containing the substance of his reply to Mr. Myers'
criticisms.
MI'. Doveton, after complaining with some warmth of Mr. Myers'
suggestion that he exaggerated in talking of "countless well authenti-
cated ghost stories," says:-
Many of my well authenticated cases I own were from books, and not
first-hand from ghost seers, but the stories were well authenticated, and bore
the stamp of truth on them. I have, moreover, a certain number of cases
told me atflrst.hand-indeed, not a few.
III estimating the value of the evidence on this subject we must take
stories from standard works on Apparitions, as representing the consensus of
human b~lief, into consideration, when such are well attested-why not
He adds:-
I am not concerned with d"eam fignre8, but with those apparitions that con-
front us when we are as wide atvaJre as I am at this moment. . . . I refer to
the apparitions who touch yotr-talk to you-sometimes obscure by their fonn
familiar objects in the room, and sometimes are seen by their own light-a
light which plainly emanates from themselves.1
In re the clothes objection I own it is hard to explain, but ill my opinion
a disembodied spirit would appear to us as it cOIweivetl itse7j clotll~d, and that
would naturslly be in its usual habiliments ill order to facilitate our recogni-
tion of it. Thus will the dress itself be purely phantasmal--an appearance
only-whilst the Ego, or 801IZ beneath, will be still material to spirit sense,
and occasionally palpable even to our physical sense of touch.
He explains that he regards
Phantasms of the living as purely snbjective appearances merely, for the
simple reason that the soul cannot be in the body and out of it (as far I\S we
know) at the same time, muellll the individual be in a state of trance.
Finally he urges that
The fact of an apparition being seen by two or mOl"e pel'sons at ollce is a
strong proof of its objectivity, it being far more improbable that the sense
of two or more should be 8imldtaneonsl,!/ deceived in precisely the same
manner, than that there should be an objective appearance there!
1 These characteristics occur in the ca.se of apparitions of persons undoubtedIv
alive. See for examples of one or more of them this number of the Journal, p. 253,
and Phanta8m8 of the Living, cases numbered 295, 297, 299, 213, 311. Apparent
solidity is common, but see for special mention of it a. non-coincidental case quoted
in PhantcumB of tke Living,Vol. I., p. 513. Other cases, coincidental and non-coinci-
dental. might be quoted.-Ev.
Digitized by Google
)Iay,18oo.] JOltl'IUll oj Society JUI' Psyckienl ResellI'cit. 263
ILLl:'SIONS HYPNAGOGIQCES.
To lite Editor of the JOL'"R~AL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL REl'lHAltCH.
SIR,-I should like to know whether the following experience, which
seems to IlIe in some respects analogous to crystal-vision, is at all common.
I am a very light sleeper, and frequently begin to see dream images while my
brain is so far awake that I can study them anu register them in my memory.
As far as I can lllake out, the process of their appearance is as follows: I
close my eyes, and see the broken blotches of light on the uark ground of
my eyelids, which are, I suppose, the remains of light impressions on the
retina COllllllon to most people. Among these, ever since I was a child, tho
first direction of the attention to them always produces /\II appearance of
moving brown sand, interspersed with little square fat black capital letters
of which I have never been able to distinguish more than one or two. A
friend of mine has the same experience, only that her letters are cubical and
light brown. When these go out of the field of sight their place is taken by
lines or threads of light, which arrange themselves into geometrical shapes,
and thence into somewhat conventional leaves and flowers. These pass away
into coloured masses, which suddenly quicken into definite pictures, the
colours becoming vivid and the lines definite. I have seen a reddish mass
suddenly become brilliant orange and take the shape of the pulp of a half-cut
orange, with one quarter taken out and lying beside it on the plate; or,
again, I have secn a dilll, non-luminous mass of colour suddenly light up into
the picture of a brilliant evening sky, against which rose the head and
shoulders of a cavalry officer in a red coat, riding in a country lane. Some-
times the quickening process is applied to the form only; an irregular coil of
the light thread I mentioned before has presented itself to me first as a ser-
pellt, next as all irregular circle of old rounded small blocks of stone, and my
mind has hesitated as to which suggestion to accept. I do not think my
dream pictures have ever moved or acted while I was sufficiently awake to
register them in my memory ; but it has been curious to watch the moment
at which they became definite impressions on my retina, instead of mere
suggestions of my conscious imagination. I have had the converse experience
also, when the dream image has remained imprinted on my retina afte?' wak-
ing. The fact of their thus quickening seems to me to give force to Mr.
Myers' argument in last month's JO'It1'lIal, since the fact seems to supply all
the machinery necessary for telepathic impressions on the mind to clothe
themselves in visual form.-I am, &c.,
AN ASSOCIATE.
[Hallucinations of the type of which our correspondenL's experiences are
interesting examples have received the name of illusions hyp'lla.gogiq1tes, and
have been described by Maury, MUller, and others. Mr. Gurney gives a
general account of them and some instances in Phantasllls of the Livi-ny,
Vol. I., p. 390, and p. 474, foot-note.-ED.]
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1890.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY OATALOGUE.
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Additions since the last lillt (" Journal" for Mm·ch).
BRAMWELL (Dr. R. Milne), Hypnotic Anoosthesia in Surgery
(Bt-itillh Medical Journal, April 5th, 1890) .......... ..London, 1890 .
CHARCOT (Prof. J. M.). Hypnotism and Crime (New York. .
Forllm, February, 1890) .................................New York, 1890
MYERS (Dr. A. T.), Hypnotism at Home and Abroad (reprinted
from the Practitioner, March, 1890) .....................London, 1890'"
SMITH (Dr. R. Percy) and MYERS (Dr. A. T.), The Treatment of
Insanity by Hypnotism (reprinted from the Journal of Mental
Science, April. 1890) .......................................Londol~, 1890*
'fUCKEY (C. Lloyd, M.D.), Psycho-Therapeutics; or Treatment
by Hypnotism and Suggestion. 2nd Edition. Revised and
enlarged ............ '............................................London, 1890*
CONG~S (premier) International de l'Hypnotisme. Experimental
et Therapeutique .............................................. ..Parill, 1890
DELB<EUJ!' (Prof. J.), Le Magnetisme Animal ..................Paris, 1889
------ Magnetiseurs et Medecins..................Parill. 1890
'LOMBROSO (Prof. Cesare) L'Authropologie CrimineUe ...... Paris. 1890
TISSIE (Dr. Ph.), Les R~ves; Physiologie et Pathologie......Parill. 1890
OELZELT-NEWIN (Albert) Ueber Phantasie VorsteUungen ...Graz, 1889
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Additions since the last list (" Journal" for N O'I!emoor).
ABBOT (Francis Ellingwood, Ph. D.). The Way outof Agnosti-
cism. orthe Philosophy of Free Religion..................Boston. 1890*
BAXTER (Robert). Narrative of Facts. characterising the Super-
natural Manifestations in Members of Mr. Irving's Congre-
gation...............................................................London. 1833
BOOLE (Mary), Logic Taught by Love ...........................Lo'lldo'll. 1890§
HOME (Madame Dunglas). The Gift of D. D. Home ......London. 1890
HOME (D.D.). Lights and Shadows of Spiritualism .........Lo'lldon, 1878
LIGHT, Vol. IX. ......................................................London, 1889+
PROCEEDINGS OJ!' THE LITERARY AND PHIwsopmCAL SOCIETY OF
LIVERPOOL, Vol. XLI., 1886-7, Vol. XLII., 1887-8, Vol.
XLIII.. 1889 ...................................................London, 1886-9
SKEWES (Rev. J. Henry), Sir John Franklin: The True Secret of
the Discovery of his Fate. " A Revelation." 2nd Edition.
Londo'll, 1890t
* Presented by the Author. +Presented by Mr. W. M. Wilkinson.
§ Presented by Mrs. Passingha.m. ::: Presented by the London Spiritualist Alliance.
Digitized by Google
