{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kessie_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kessie P Probable NDE 244","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kessie P Probable NDE 244  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kessie P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1399 Kessie P Probable NDE 244  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was driving in an ice storm and a huge truck was sitting across the highway and I could not stop. I hit it head on. The few seconds before I hit all I could think about was my beautiful little girl at home who needed me and was all alone, probably scared to death wondering where I was. When I hit I thought I was dying from the pain in my chest. I couldn't feel or see my legs, I thought that they were gone. I had an elderly passenger with me and all I could think of was trying to comfort her. We were trapped for hours before we were able to be rescued. The emergency room was packed and understaffed in the entire hospital because of the crippling weather. The doctor said it was a miracle that I survived and that I did not have any broken bones or internal injuries. My legs were badly bruised, swollen and cut and I could not move them. They released me to my brother and sister-in-law; there were no rooms available to keep me overnight. My brother and his wife had to carry me into my apartment. A friend in town had taken my daughter home. She was only twelve years old and had been home alone for hours in this terrible storm. I thought I would be okay alone. They were the only family that lived close. I called my daughter and a few friends. I had asked my brother to make me a drink before he left.

I was in a lot of pain and I took two pain pills. I couldn't go to sleep. I felt so alone and so scared. I was a single parent and I was overcome with thoughts of how I was going to manage caring for my daughter and getting back to work when I could not even walk. I had to go to the bathroom and realized I had no way to get there, but to crawl. It was extremely painful and difficult. I had to use my upper body to lift myself up. I just crawled to my bedroom and was on the floor just crying and feeling so helpless. I took a sleeping pill. The next thing I remember was my heart pounding so hard I could hear it and feel it. It woke me up, my eyes were open and I was so scared. Then it stopped beating and I was being pulled incredibly fast through this dark tunnel toward a bright light. I felt there was someone beside me. I was scared; I knew it was not a dream. Then suddenly I felt as if I was dropped back onto the floor. I looked over at the clock, it was 3:00 a.m. and I had no idea what had just happened to me. My mother called me the next morning and told me she had awoken at 3:00 a.m. with this terrible feeling I had died.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  February 24, 1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I felt that my heart was not beating I was being moved quickly through this tunnel. I did not see my body separated from me, but it felt as if I left it lying on the floor it happened so quickly.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My eyes were open and I knew I was awake and not dreaming. It was very real.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was being pulled incredibly fast through a dark tunnel toward a bright light.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I could feel someone beside me in the tunnel.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was incredibly bright and it felt good to see the light after the darkness in the tunnel and the darkness I felt inside that evening. But I could not stop thinking of my daughter and how much we needed each other. She had been my driving force, my reason for everything for twelve years; it was just the two of us.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion, fear, and anxiety. I was looking for my daughter, I could not leave her.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I just knew that I had died and came back very quickly.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I just felt this overwhelming anguish about leaving my daughter. It pulled at me and was stronger than the beauty and comfort I felt coming from the light.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The difficulties I have always experienced in my life and continue to do so seem so trivial and unimportant. I have not been to church on a regular basis since I was a child, but I have always had this incredible, unwavering, undoubting faith and trust in God that has always got me through everything. That has intensified along with a strong desire to learn more. There are just things that I know to be true about life and afterlife. The things I struggle so hard at are convincing the people around me of what I know to be that truth. They think I'm 'crazy' in a good kind of way.  

     After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     One year ago my fiancé's father asked if we could take his mother's ashes out to sea. He was devastated, his mother had lived by the ocean and wanted her ashes to be scattered in the ocean after her death. His older brother was given the ashes and agreed to do that. My fiancé's father was too overcome with the loss of his mother. When his brother died last year and he was cleaning out his house, he found his mother's ashes in the garage, over a decade after her death. My fiancé, mother, his sister, father and I took our boat about a mile into the ocean. I had a very uneasy feeling of anxiety and began to tremble (that has happened to me in the past several times before something bad has happened to someone I was close to) I suddenly somehow knew he was having a heart attack. He didn't display any symptoms, he just seemed overcome by the emotion of what we were there for. I told the others I felt he was having a heart attack. They joked and laughed at me and thought I was ruining the whole experience. They said he was probably a little sea sick. I asked to please go back because I was sure of what was happening. They still did not believe me. I remember sitting alone saying, 'I am so sorry for doing this. I can't get anyone to believe me,' I begged for God's forgiveness. My fiancé's father did in fact suffer a massive heart attack that required a quadruple bypass. That evening sitting on the boat I was with my fiancé and his mother.  I was reflecting on what had happened, feeling so guilty for not convincing the others sooner of what I knew, a white mist that looked similar to a miniature cloud or dense patch of fog drifted toward me and went right through me and I had an immediate feeling that everything was okay.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst part was the fear of not being with my daughter, the fear of not having the joy of being a part of her life. I still have that fear. I feel there is so much more the two of us have to share. The best part is knowing that this life, good and bad, is to teach me and to improve my soul for what is waiting beyond this life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not too often, because of the reactions I get. My daughter is the one that I talk the most to. I want to help her in her spiritual growth.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am thankful for it. I sometimes go to sleep wishing that God could show me just a little more.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kessie_p_probable_nde.html