{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kenneth_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Kenneth P NDE 6717","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kenneth P NDE 6717  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kenneth P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3349 Kenneth P NDE 6717  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When the machine turned me upside down, I never knew what the doctor had in mind. I was later told that I went into a clinical shock. I saw pictures of my life flashing before my eyes, in a perfect chronological order. I then told myself I was dying. 

At the same time, while pictures kept flashing, I told myself I should let that ‘thing’ go. I should let it go through my body, I should not resist. So I calmed down as much as I could by immobilizing each fiber in my body and by practicing hyperventilation. All of a sudden, everything stopped and I woke up on a stretcher. 

Discussing that with a cynical doctor: 

Me: Why didn’t you get me down from the machine immediately? 

Him: We wouldn’t have got the images. 

Me: What if I had died? 

Him: The risk was to be run. 

Full stop. 

Once back in the bush, I suffered terrible headaches which I could cure with a common anti-allergic.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Novembre 1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Contrast product should not have reached the brain. The doctor who did the radiography put me on a machine that turns over to do the tomography. Then the product reached the head. Immediate effect.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I somewhat perceived my body, because I thought that something ‘was going through my body’.  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the beginning, when the shock occurred.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed excluded from the experience, although I felt I had to do something to avoid dying.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision did not exist anymore. I was entirely oriented into myself.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same. Senses were like cut off.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Not really a tunnel, rather a separation from regular life.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   What I can guarantee is the clearness of the pictures that flashed through my mind.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm and serenity, but also full attention and focus on my means. I wanted to live.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Cette expérience a eu des caractéristiques qui ressemblaient beaucoup à celles de la seule expérience de LSD que j'avais faite une dizaine d'années auparavant, le sentiment d'une séparation plus nette entre l'esprit et le corps, et la place d'observateur de la conscience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Knowing that you can still do something in extreme situations.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife does not exist     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     En fait, il s'est agi d'une confirmation de la réalité d'un pouvoir, celui de la conscience en cas de grand danger. Je suis convaincu que je me suis sorti tout seul d'un danger de mort.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Précisément, l'expérience du LSD. Après cette expérience, j'ai souvent pensé qu'elle avait été très positive parce qu'elle m'avait montré le pouvoir critique de la conscience dans une mesure que j'ignorais à ce moment-là.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Let’s say I realized that, in critical moments, the body sends signals you have to understand if you want to survive.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    There was no interesting reaction.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Media are very fond of these near death experiences. As I’d become a journalist, I was aware of them.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In 1996 I was caught in a strong storm in the Mediterranean Sea on a sailboat. After one night steering on my own, my wife replaced me, but she did not know how to steer and made the boat capsize. I fell very hard on my back. After surgery, I believed it was over, but it was like in Gabon and I regained consciousness the same way. The pictures did not come back. I only saw a strong, blinding white light.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       From my answers, you could indeed ask for possible confirmations of what I experienced. I feel that this is a natural response of the body and there is some sort of normal process in case of danger. A process you should know if you want to higher chances of survival.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kenneth_p_nde.html