{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kent_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kent M Probable NDE 2513","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kent M Probable NDE 2513  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kent M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						794  Kent M Probable NDE  2513  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

All of a sudden I am climbing on a stage which is all black except for an old six panel white door with peeling and cracked paint and an old time big round black door knob. There is no door frame or other building structure. The door and mid-stage are bathed in a yellow stage light from above the stage but the light does not illuminate anything except to create a yellow glow. Just as I step on the stage, I am very calm and have an impulse to just walk over and open the door to see what's on the other side. But I remember that I am alone and that my wife of thirty-four years who helps me with all decisions isn't there. I remember saying or thinking to myself, 'I can't screw up because she isn't here to help me.' Just as I think that, from my right an old semi-friend ex-roommate from college walks on stage. I don't remember if we were speaking or mentally communicating, I feel it was mental. In any event, he looks great. (He was always a little overweight-puffy looking and had after I graduated burned through an inheritance to fuel a heroin habit telling everyone that when he got to his last dollar he would overdose and go out in style, which is exactly what he did.)

I cannot remember what we talked about but he did tell me how great it was. I first assumed he meant heaven but then started having doubts as I remembered that in life I could never believe anything he said, he lied and stole from me all the time. He really wanted me to open the door and go through it and I very much wanted to see what was on the other side but I didn't trust him. After a period of bantering back and forth, he became agitated and somehow slipped and I realized he wasn't from heaven, at which point he just walked off the stage. I don't think I even said anything to cause him to leave. I had the feeling the whole time that there was someone in the dark towards the back of the stage. My sense is that my 'knowledge' that everything is all right came from that presence.

The next thing I remember is waking up and saying 'I'm not afraid to die anymore,' which scared everyone in the room including my wife. I was subsequently transported to the Medical Center where I drifted in and out of consciousness and had 'normal' drug hallucinations and dreams until the next morning when I was discharged. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2002  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident       Pain pump dumped 5 week supply of narcotics into my system all at once...in Doc's office during pump refill.  They did not have any narcan on hand.  The NDE occured prior to Parameds arrival and narcan delivery.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   During the refilling of my pain pump with (I think) diluted the reservoir seal broke and the diluted fluid leaked into my abdomen. Fortunately, I am not thin and it took a while for the drug to get into my system so it didn't hit me all at once. I had left the doctor's office and headed towards my car when I told my wife that I felt weird. My chest felt hot and my shoulders tingled, my first thought was perhaps I was having a heart attack but there were no other symptoms. We decided to stay in the parking lot for a while and it got worse so went back into the doctor's office. I was thinking they must have some Narcan that will stop the narcotic effect and put me in withdrawal which is what I was most concerned about at that point in time. They laid me out in an examination room and then the drug hit pretty quick. I must have gone to sleep or passed out because all of a sudden the NDE started.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was like being really alert but very relaxed and peaceful at the same time. I am also a football coach and it was like the concentration I experience during a game but without the nerves or anxiety, I was really in the moment. Also I didn't have any pain which is often distracting, I climbed up the three or four feet onto the stage like I was a kid. I also didn't feel that my friend could manipulate me at all, I was very strong and calm.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time, perhaps when I realized I was alone, near the beginning, or when I saw my friend I do remember becoming wary because he was so untrustworthy, I thought of all the people that could come to meet me, why him?  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I don't know how long I was there. It could have been five minutes or three hours.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Well I'm not used to being on stage under a bright yellow light.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Walked in, sat down on a stool in front of me. Now that I think about it, he seemed to keep a distance from me. Didn't come over to shake hands or anything. As described, he was a friend from college. I don't remember what was communicated.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As described a soft intense yellow stage light. Like putting a yellow gel over a standard flood that one would find hanging in a bank above the front of a stage.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     As described before...this weird stage and door...but I don't know where or what they are.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness, strength, peace, a gaining of 'knowledge' that the events in the world are as they should be.  Strange as that seems and that most things we worry about don't matter except for taking care of each other sharing our love not hurting each other in any way - especially emotionally - and that almost all that we do is forgiven.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   raised Lutheran  currently Methodist...somewhat lapsed in terms of attendence but not belief or faith...if anything faith has been stronger since attendence has decreased. Attendence decreased due to health prior to NDE.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More calm less concerned about church doctrine more concerned about real teaching of Bible.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Less concerned about attendence. Feel more tuned in since experience. Trying to actually live teachings from deep in my soul instead of a surface Sunday morning type of thing. Pray more...feel closer.  Also believe more in Satan-demons and evil which I  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More calm less concerned about church doctrine more concerned about real teaching of Bible.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The world is as it should be; if God wanted it to be different he would make it so. We should stop getting lost in so many religious rules. The only rules are to help one another, love one another, try to lift each other's burdens, try to take away each other's burdens, 'My purpose is you', 'we are here to grow our souls' I think this is it. This is the first time I have written it down and am trying to filter out worldly influences.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can't remember the conversation with my deceased friend or where the 'everything is okay' knowledge came from. I don't remember anyone else being there except my friend and myself. My experience was very similar to one I just read and now can't find from a lady who was in a coma from pneumonia, there are many similarities. Also it's four years old and I spent the next twenty-four hours asleep.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I wonder why I got a drug addict to meet me, am I in trouble spiritually?  OR was it really, really not my time so evil took a shot and the Lord shared some knowledge, I have been debating this with myself for four years now. I read afterwards that drug overdoses stay in a 'low plane' near earth. If that is true, maybe that is why my friend came instead of someone else. I feel the yellow light means something but I don't know what, same for the door. But the 'knowledge' is worth all the other questions by a hundred to one.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My wife and kids - wife and one kid found it 'interesting', other kid didn't believe it meant anything.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew what it was in a 'magazine article' sort of way.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed it as absolutely real. A week later, we flew to Mexico. I am terribly afraid to fly. Normally need to sedate myself. I got on the plane fell asleep before we took off and awoke just before we landed with little sedation. Had no anxiety at all, felt totally at peace as I did on the return trip.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, wasn't a drug dream. As a chronic pain patient, I have been on pain medications for years. I can tell the difference between a drug dream and this. I can't remember most dreams for more than a day, four years later I remember most of this as if it just happened.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kent_m_probable_nde.html