{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kent_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Kent M NDE 2788","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kent M NDE 2788  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kent M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						949  Kent M NDE  2788  					  				  			        			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  Disassociation from body and personality. Travel to other place and time. Close association with others in a world at war and watching people die. Profound realization that I needed to be there in order to bring attention to what was happening as it was being ignored by a world populace.

Regaining consciousness repeatedly in hospital bed screaming that I needed to be back where I was before regaining this reality.

Watching people I knew (family and friends) gather around hospital bed trying to smile and cheer me up with tubes running in and out of an irreparably broken body. Indescribable pain and the conscious decision to stay knowing where I had been and what I had seen would always be there for me later. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 'September 9, 1979'  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' motor vehicle accident resulting in coma  Head injury, collapsed lung, spinal cord damage, ruptured disk, permanent nerve damage.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was a transition while traveling from where I was back to this reality that was profound and undeniable. What you learn after death is everything you can't possibly know here. Society's belief in a consumerist society is a complete illusion and faith in this illusion is totally misplaced.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Before consciousness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I traveled to a future war and watched people die.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw beyond the illusion. There was in fact no sight but a sense that combined all sensory perception including hearing, sight, smell, touch etc., that paled all others (even combined) by comparison. This was experienced exclusively in the transitions between here and there.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    As I said there was no difference between sight-sound-touch and emotional perception. They were all one sense combined with much, much more.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A barrier of soft warm light - warm like a mother's breath to her baby.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The spirit, emotions dreams and pain of every man woman and child who've lived.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I didn't have to see it it was all around me and a part of me. I became one with the light and all before, after and beyond the light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Man at war and children dying... being blown to ribbons  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Beyond euphoria, understanding, beyond calm, beyond resignation, complete love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I learned that the only thing that matters is how you make someone else feel.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        Our world is entering a phase of unending war with an enemy it cannot defeat and no one recognizes it. There is no way to inform man of this folly.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I've realized virtually all accepted norms of religion are either incorrect entirely or partial truth clouded by truckloads of irrelevant superstition and unnecessary dogma.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   none  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I've realized virtually all accepted norms of religion are either incorrect entirely or partial truth clouded by truckloads of irrelevant superstition and unnecessary dogma.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The only thing that matters is how your actions or words make another feel. To kill someone is to rob them of their decision to live or die - that decision is sacrosanct even for an animal.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes No one can understand why what they hold dear means almost nothing to me. The beliefs of people I thought I once knew are almost embarrassingly simple and superficial. To discuss what I saw and experienced will often make them angry as we sometimes have no common reference.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I foretold the future of many people I knew and told people I hadn't seen for years what had been happening in their lives including their interactions with people I had never met or had any way of knowing of.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The reality of a world at perpetual war and the transition as if being pulled back here. The transition was through the warm loving light of all those who have come and gone before me - they are God.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Days. Disbelief and condescension.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was more real than sitting down with my parents for a meal after I was released from the hospital. There is no question whatsoever that what I experienced was and is real. This society's beliefs are illusion.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I told people days afterward that I knew if I stuck my finger into a light socket it would blow me across the room. The belief I have in what I saw and experienced is every bit as definite as my belief in electricity.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I didn't think it would be so impossible to get anyone, especially those who knew me, to believe what I was trying to tell them.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No, I think this is fairly comprehensive.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kent_m_nde.html