{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kerry_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Kerry L NDE 3418","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kerry L NDE 3418  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kerry L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1379 Kerry L NDE 3418  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					To begin with a guy I liked had moved overseas because of the military. This left me very, very depressed. I was living with my sister at the time. She was an office worker and her husband was a cop. I got so depressed I wrote a letter saying I didn't want to live anymore. I took a bunch of pills. My sister found me and called the ambulance. I remember on the way to the hospital that someone said we are losing her. I don't remember the rest of the ride there, until we got there. Then they asked me a bunch of questions. I know I had a near death experience because I later read a few books on it. In addition, everything in these books were some of the things that happened to me. Not everything happened that people talked about in those books, but many of those things. I still remember this experience today, just as if it had happened just yesterday. As plain to remember in my mind. It was a forever-changing experience for me.

I remember everything being so dark. I was being whisked through a tunnel at a very high rate of speed. There was the brightest light I have ever seen. It was blinding. I remember going through this tunnel, and then I remember floating above a field of flowers. Then I remember seeing the pearly gates and they were so beautiful. I wanted to get in there so badly, but was allowed to look over the gate, but the gate wouldn't open. Everything on the other side was so beautiful. More beautiful than anyone could imagine. The roads were emerald and diamonds everywhere with gold. Everything was so shiny and sparkly and just awesomely breathtaking. I saw Our Heavenly Father and he was sitting on a throne. He looked ghostly like, but a bright whitish glow about him. I kept saying, 'I need to get in there; I need to go to heaven. Let me in, Let me in.' I remember distinctly that his reply was 'You can't get in here, it's not your time to go.' Then he disappeared and everything went backwards. Back through the flowers, the bright light, the tunnel, and the darkness.

I've read somewhere that people who have NDE sometimes afterwards sometimes have a sixth sense or a stronger sense of things that are going to happen. I found this out myself. I have a few visions, or things just pop into my head like something is going to happen and it does. It may not be at that moment, or it may be a year or two up the road, but I've had things come true, from images or things and they do come true. I tell you this NDE completely changed my life. It made me not afraid to die, but more aware of a higher being and I knew then that God had something more in store for my life. I just didn't know what at the time. Now I have a daughter in college and a beautiful granddaughter. And that in itself is a beautiful thing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Other Drug overdose  Overdose.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I would say at the end when it became dark again.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I would say at the end when it became dark again.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed clearer, brighter. Everything had a really, really bright, brightness to it. Everything brighter than your normal colors. Our Heavenly Father seemed like a vision of brightness with an overwhelming glow.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was just really plain what was said to me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Definitely a tunnel and then a bright light. A very, very bright light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Our heavenly Father. He was on a throne. And he simply said 'You can't get in here, it's not your time to go.'

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was almost blinding. It was very, very bright.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     All I saw was the road, and it was made of emerald stone, and diamonds,  and gold.  There were also pearls everywhere.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy with what I was seeing, but scared, and just wanted to STAY There. I didn't want to leave.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have had things happen to me in visions that later became true.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I got saved eight years later.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I got saved eight years later.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel more closer to people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Psychic.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I just know that heaven will be beautiful and I won't be afraid to die, when it is my time to go.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew everything was real, just from the way it happened. And later when I read a few books on it, I knew I had experienced a NDE.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is as clear in my mind today as it was the night it happened.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, this about sums it all up, as far as I can remember.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kerry_l_nde.html