{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kenneth_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Kenneth N NDE 2559","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kenneth N NDE 2559  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kenneth N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						823  Kenneth N NDE  2559  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  				  After I suddenly passed out without warning, I found myself in a black, silent void. I strained to see any light but there was none. There was no sound, no touch, no smell, nothing. I felt totally alone with just my thoughts. I remember thinking 'So this is what it's like to be dead!' I felt that I was still me, but not who I was in life.  But rather the core essence of who I really am without any ego identity. After a short time, I began to feel so lonely that I began to call out. 'Is anybody there? Please help me!' I then began to pray to God, 'Hello! God! Jesus! Please help me!' Almost immediately, I began to sense that I was now moving through the black void instead of just hanging in place there.

I could see a very small bright light in the distance and I was moving towards it. I felt that I was moving at an incredible speed but there was only a slight breeze sensation on my face. I raised my hand up or I felt that I raised my hand up in front of my face to see if I could see it but I couldn't. I noticed two things at this time. Firstly, was that there was endless streams of little flickering, fluttering dim, little light things on either side of me that were also headed towards the light. Secondly, I seemed to be able to see 360 degrees in every direction simultaneously. I needed only to will my attention in one direction to concentrate on one thing.

I wondered what the flickering, fluttering little lights were so I began to force my will to concentrate on one of them that was closest to me. As I concentrated on it, I could see that it was just a dim little light fluttering around like a moth or like Tinkerbell from 'Peter Pan' except not as bright. Then to my surprise I heard, or rather telepathically heard, it say in the voice of a little girl, 'Mommy what is he looking at?' Then the other little glob of light next to it said in the voice of an adult woman, 'He's looking at us dear.' The little girl asked, 'Why?' and the mother said, 'He's just curious. He wants to see what we look like.' We were getting closer to the light in the distance and as we got nearer it got bigger and brighter. Then I began to notice that I was slowing down.

I also noticed that I could hear something. I remember thinking 'What is hearing?' and relearning that concept. I then thought 'I hear sounds!' and relearned what sounds were. 'They're not just sounds they are voices!' and I relearned what voices were. They're not just making sounds they're speaking words!' and I relearned what speaking words meant. They're not just saying words, they're saying a name! I relearned what a name was. They're not just saying a name, they're saying my name!

As soon as I came to that realization - BOOM - I was back in my body and opening my eyes. My body was soaked in a cold sweat. I was surrounded by nurses who were saying my name and rubbing my hands and arms. My reclining chair was reclined so far back that my head was practically on the floor with my feet in the air. My shirt was completely unbuttoned and there was some kind of clear gel on my chest. A doctor was standing next to me holding two shock paddles attached to a crash cart defibrillator. He said, 'Whew! We thought we had lost you there. Your heart was stopped for two and half minutes.' As I gathered my composure, I looked around the room at the others who were there pumping out their blood and the looks on their faces were as if they had just seen a ghost! I felt as if I could read their thoughts and the overriding thought being expressed was, 'Let me out of here! I didn't know you could die from this!'

For a period of about one year after the event, I felt like I had special psychic abilities. I could sense things before they happened. I felt I could read and empathize with other people's deepest feelings. And I could sometimes, sense spirits and sometimes communicate with them. I also have the certain knowledge that there is a life after death because I experienced it. I was clinically dead for two and a half minutes. Your core essence continues on. No name, no identity, no ego but you do continue after this life. It's no longer a hope or a belief, it is a knowing. That is immensely comforting!

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1983  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         Loss of blood  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was selling my blood plasma for money to make ends meet. I hadn't eaten for twenty-four hours and was probably dehydrated as well. Normally, you wait until your first bag of red blood cells is returned before starting to give the second bag but they let me start to pump-out the second bag of blood without receiving my first bag of red blood cells back. My blood volume level dropped so low that I passed out and my heart stopped for two and a half minutes.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All of it.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Read the narrative.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see 360 degrees in every direction simultaneously.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't think I was hearing audible sounds, it was telepathic communication.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Streams of little lights going to a distant light source.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Read the narrative.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright, very distant.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm     read narrative  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bewilderment and amazement.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     Very accurate however I had no control over what events I could foresee. I can't recall what they were now.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have a knowing now.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a knowing now.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Read the narrative.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I value others much more now. I'm not as superficial and materialistic as I once was.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Empathy almost telepathy. Could and did sense some spirits and communicate with them.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of utter aloneness at the beginning.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People can tell I'm telling a true experience not a made up story.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was not something I had ever given much thought to. The experience happened without warning and didn't fit with any pre-conceived notions I had ever had or even heard of.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Read narrative.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kenneth_n_nde.html