{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ken_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Ken W NDE 4322","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ken W NDE 4322  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ken W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2139 Ken W NDE 4322  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was looking down from about fifteen feet and was concerned for my buddies who were upset. I wanted to tell them how cool it was, but they couldn't hear me. I wanted them to be happy for me, but they were having no part of it.

When I looked around, I realized there were many beings around me. They appeared to be a luminous fog with a gold core close to the top, a thin lucent pale greenish gold around the edges and had a wispy tail-like bottom. I think they were about three to four feet tall and about one foot in diameter. They moved as if they had mass and momentum and were not affected by the wind, which was strong at the time. It's hard to explain how glowing fog can be a being, an entity, but there they were. Without any similarities to the human form, they had easily recognizable human characteristics like age and gender specific body language, intent and purpose. It was clear that they had places to go and things to do.

The first of them to notice me was a young girl who pointed me out to her three friends who all paused to chuckle at the new guy - me! It was clear that they were, in human terms, nice young girls of about ten or twelve years of age. They were buddies who seemed to have an agenda as they wanted to stay and watch, but had to move on. It seemed clear that I had just been killed and they thought it was funny. However, I didn't feel they were being rude or lacked compassion at all. I was confused, but felt that given a little time I would get the joke and be right there to welcome the newbie's with a chuckle of my own. Oddly, their humor made me feel at home, like part of the group, welcomed.

As more of them saw me, I realized that watching newbies enter their realm was routine and that most of them found it humorous.

As a group, they all seemed to enjoy their existence very much. I felt they had a sense of community and order. I thought how funny it was that I had no concern for the fact that I had just died. I was happy to be there.

I couldn't see myself and had no body part, like a hand, that I could hold up in front of my eyes (no eyes either) to confirm what I was, but I assumed that I was one of them. I was floating above the ground like them. I could move about effortlessly like them. All I had to do was think to move. As I buzzed about, they seemed to tell me to settle down because I was new and didn't know how to move about yet. They weren't using words, but I could clearly understand them just as if you would easily understand 'watch out' in a language you didn't speak.

Thought, knowledge and memory were not linear, one thing after the other, but all at once. The amount of sensory intensity would have overwhelmed me minutes ago in my human body, but this was way cool. I could see, hear, and conceive in ways that were inspiring and wonderful. I thought this being dead stuff is a lot different than I expected and I like it - a lot.

It appears that at least part of the time they exist among us. They can see us, but respect our privacy.

Soon, I was approached by some who seemed to know me and everything about me. It felt like they were family.

Then what appeared to be a more ranking entity approached, as the others seemed to straighten up a bit (as if the boss showed up).

Many of the entities seemed to be watching my situation to see how things would unfold (like rubberneckers). I suspect they knew what was next. Some dark entities (like the ones in the movie 'Ghost' that dragged the bad guy presumably to hell) came up and checked me out as the onlookers all seemed to hold their breath (even though they don't breathe). I sensed the dark things posed a threat, but they left me alone.

The senior and the ones who knew me discussed my situation and told me I had to go back and that I would not remember. I was really disappointed, but did not question my orders.

Next thing I was gasping in pain on the ground, ice and blood in my mouth and a bunch of feet all around me. I was back in my body, alive, and I knew I had a fight on my hands keeping it that way. In spite of my disappointment for having to leave the place where dead people have a great existence, I really wanted to live.

I'm not sure about the whole reincarnation thing, but it certainly opened my mind. Not only did I feel they had been human in the past, but I felt they expected to be human again. It was as if they were a part of a natural lifecycle where being born and dying are just transitions between different forms of our existence.

I believe with all my heart that we carry certain things like love and giving between these realms. Most all of what we feel is important as a human is of no importance in the other realm. They are excited to be human again as they can do things like having a family. They also really like the excitement of being in human form as it comes with struggles, challenges, danger, risk, unpredictability, etc. They miss things like making love, music, art, etc. Many of our core values are the same. They have a high regard for humans who are humble, giving and tough. For these reasons, the souls of firefighters, single moms and the like rank high. They like those who protect others and fight to survive. They are non-judgmental and quick to forgive, as they know the temptations humans face and know they will face them again themselves.

I really love life in a way I am sure I would not have were it not for this experience. If everyone could have a glimpse of this realm, the world would be a much better place for humans - no killing, violence, etc.

Don't try this getting killed thing at home and don't tell everybody how cool it is or they'll hurry to get there.

Since the initial experience, I have had many paranormal situations involving many other people, which I'll try to add and share here soon. My hope is that I will find some way to help others with this ability.

I hope that this will be of value to you in some way.

Make it a great day,

Sincerely,

Ken.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   We were sliding on a large inner tube behind a four-wheel-drive on an icy road. We were whipped off and I slid into a stop sign at speed, breaking ribs, partially collapsing a lung and contusing my heart (according to the emergency room doctor).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Hmm?

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Hmm?

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was not limited by peripheral vision and could see vividly in all directions. I could see through solid objects.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I remember my vision fading to black then it went from purple to yellow to bright, but soft white and then I was looking down on my buddies trying to revive me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I hesitate to call them mystical or other worldly as it seemed they were at home. I felt I was one of them and that realm was a natural part of my existence.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I stayed right in the same location as my accident. I'm not sure if it really looked very different or I was just seeing it from a different perspective. It didn't seem unearthly at all, but seemed like home.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Amazement, enlightenment, joy, WOW! If everyone knew how cool it is, there would be a lot in a hurry to get there.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was not in a linear thought sequence, but all at once.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not at the time, but since then I have had several highly accurate premonitions.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I didn't sense I had special knowledge, but the entities around me had it. I'm not sure if they understood everything, but it was much more than a human could likely handle.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Language is a poor tool to convey what appeared normal in that realm.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     See above.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Other than asking my buddies soon after the accident, I didn't talk about it for years. I was formally trained as a conservative redneck so I hid it until I formed my own opinions as a young adult.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Again amazing. It redirected my life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is a defining moment in my existence.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Not even close.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       You don't stop being you when you move on from your human body.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ken_w_nde.html