{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ken_m_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Ken M Possible NDE 4896","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ken M Possible NDE 4896  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ken M Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2497 Ken M Possible NDE 4896  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was surfing in Carlsbad, California in the early morning before work. The waves were only about three to five feet tall; but the water was so glassy and still; I couldn't resist going in. My place of employment was one block from the beach; so most mornings if it wasn't raining; I would go in for a few minutes to surf in non-crowded conditions. (Weekends can be circus like because of too many people out in the water.) This particular morning there was not another person within about a quarter mile from me. I had just paddled out and was sitting on my surfboard waiting for the right wave. I should tell you that a couple of years before, I had dislocated my left shoulder while surfing. I had no health insurance back in those days, so with time; the damage increased each time it would come out of socket to the point that I had to tie my arm to my waist at night so I could sleep. I had gotten used to this injury over time, so when it would dislocate, I just would rest it for a few days each time before putting any physical stress on it. It became a way of life. 

On this particular morning, as I was sitting on my board out a hundred yards or so off the sand, a bigger than normal wave popped up maybe thirty yards farther out. I paddled like crazy to catch the wave; but I didn't quite make it out far enough to catch it before it broke. Instead, as I was paddling, the wave broke and I went over the nose of my board. I felt the agonizing pain of my arm grind out of socket, but this time the pain was much more intense! I screamed!

When I surfaced, I realized in horror that my left arm was draped around my neck and over my right shoulder. I struggled to pull it back to the left, but I couldn't manage to do it. Now I was terrified as I realized that my surfboard was not attached to my ankle where it should be. The Velcro strip had failed, and my board had washed toward shore. About that time, another wave had crashed down on me, and I felt the churning like being inside a washing machine. The pain was excruciating; but the tumbling over and over had allowed my arm to get back on my left side. I realized from more pain in my chest that I was now inhaling water. As I came up I gasped for air, but nothing happened except choking. Then I got very relaxed and I remember thinking that the old cliché was 'after three times going down - it's final.' So after a few seconds of panic I resigned, relaxed, no pain, no fear. Suddenly a hand grabbed the back of my wet suit and I was lying across what I thought was a surfboard. Then I realized that the water was shallow and I could stand up. I turned to thank the guy for helping me; but nobody was there.

There were two people running toward me a couple of hundred feet from me, and I collapsed and started throwing up water. I just lay there with my cheek on the sand trying to catch my breath; my lungs aching like I have never felt before, vomiting water and bits of seaweed. My head was spinning which made the nausea even worse. By that time, the two people had gotten to me asking if I was okay. I told them I just needed to rest. Then one of them said, 'We saw your bright blue wetsuit and you were floating face down in the foam of the waves'. I asked where the guy went who helped me get toward the shore. Neither one knew who I was talking about. One of the guys said jokingly, 'Maybe it was your guardian angel.' I'd say I agree! I stopped surfing years ago; but the surf culture for me feels like a religious experience. I didn't get rid of my fear of death however. In fact; I think this experience made me more afraid to live. That's why I bought your book on the afterlife.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1980

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       For me; I wasn't alert at all. I was terrified; but completely puzzled about my few (seconds/minutes?) of relaxation.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I couldn't tell if the experience was seconds or minutes.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see the grey and white of the foam and bubbles as I was tumbling. Ever so often, I would catch a glimpse of blue from the sky. It would orient me as to knowledge of being close to the surface.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear my screaming and choking under water.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Someone saved me by helping me to shallow water; then disappeared. I could see for a long ways right as I got to shore in all directions. Nobody except those two guys who spotted me floating in the foam; and they saw nobody with me in the water.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Horror then calm momentarily.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was very 'fundamentalist' in my beliefs for many years. Then I became very disappointed with the 'church' and its teachings of sin and punishment. I had to leave the church and just have my own understanding of the Bible and of God. This scientific research to me is absolutely fascinating!!!! It makes the possibilities SO LOGICAL whereas some of the 'church' doctrines seemed like nonsense to me.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I was very 'fundamentalist' in my beliefs for many years. Then I became very disappointed with the 'church' and its teachings of sin and punishment. I had to leave the church and just have my own understanding of the Bible and of God. This scientific research to me is absolutely fascinating!!!! It makes the possibilities SO LOGICAL whereas some of the 'church' doctrines seemed like nonsense to me.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes After this; I started holding back in life. In 1987 when my daughter was born; I was an overprotective parent; and probably drove my wife nuts with my worrying constantly.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Years later as I got more interested in Christianity; I was already 'sold' on the existence of 'Angels' because of my near drowning. Christianity teaches the existence of 'spiritual gifts' and although I have always shied away from that practice; I knew I had the ability to 'discern' spirits in which many times proved itself out in my life. However; this 'ability' is at the control and timing of God; not myself or my time or efforts.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The thing that stood out was that whether or not it was an 'Angel'. The angel saved my life. I also wondered if I had been 'backslidden' (as Christians put it) and this was my 'chance' to get my life in order. I had a lot of 'baggage' from different sects of religion.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Pretty much right away. Most thought I was crazy I think. It was much more acceptable to those I talked to in a church setting. (Which came later in my life.)

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Sure; I had heard of things like this due to being raised around Christian relatives. When I did finally start getting serious about Christianity, I studied the Bible looking for answers to explain this 'other existence'. Was it 'Purgatory' like the Catholics believe? Or was it a waiting room to see if a person is a sheep or a goat? I was pretty sure it wasn't heaven. Although I didn't make it into this other dimension; I have always wondered about it.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was always SURE that it was not a dream or hallucination from banging my head or lack of oxygen. I was well aware that I was in big trouble (health wise and spiritual wise).

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After studying the Bible diligently for years; I knew already by faith that this exists. Now I am very interested in it from a scientific view. I'm kind of obsessed with it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   One time after a routine surgery.  Waking up from anesthesia was so joyous! I felt like I had been reborn. The doctor asked me if I remembered anything; and I told him 'No; I'd do it again in a heartbeat.' What a strange thing for me to say! Why would I feel like that? Do they have to tell you if they 'goof'? I had that notion.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ken_m_possible_nde.html