{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kendra_nde.html","mytitle":"Kendra NDE 3755","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kendra NDE 3755  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kendra NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1750 Kendra NDE 3755  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My memory of the event is vivid in my memory today but I remember feeling very dizzy when I entered school that morning and I went to my first period history class and passed out. I don't know how long I was asleep for but I recall my teacher shaking me up and asking if I was okay. I had told her yes and attempted to get up and walk but had fallen straight down and hit my head on her desk and began to choke and throw up a mix of vomit and blood. I don't remember anything of what had happened after that because when I awoke I was in a hospital bed with my mother, uncle and sister standing over me. The doctors had asked me if I knew where I was. I looked at him very out of it and shook my head 'No.' He told me that I was in the hospital and that my medication level was at a dangerous level and that some of my main organs were malfunctioning. He had told my family to step outside so they could hook me up to some equipment and then they gave me some anesthesia to put me out to give me treatment.

Next thing I know, I'm floating up by the ceiling directly over my body to see it shaking and eight nurses holding me down. I was having a seizure and heard one of the nurses yell for a staff member to get the doctor.  That's all I saw. 

I was surrounded by a warm, white light.  I traveled upwards and felt safe.  I felt such love, more than I've ever felt before.  I felt myself trying to get to the end faster. At the end of the light, I saw a beautiful golden gate with three figures. My mother, my grandfather whom I never knew but at that moment I felt like I had known him all my life, and a man dressed in white robes and medium brown hair radiating love in waves. For the first time in a long time, I felt accepted and at home and I didn't want to leave. My mother and grandfather told me to go back that I didn't belong here yet. I shook my head. I didn't want to leave the peace I felt there. The white robed man smiled lovingly at me and told me that he loved me and that I had a choice to stay and finish my remaining years of my life reborn or to go back and finish the rest of my life with my family. I had chosen to go back.

He smiled at me and said, 'It's not your time. Follow me and have faith in me and I shall protect you.' Then I had been sent back full force into my body. I was released from the hospital three days later. It had hit on me that I had spoken with Jesus. Before then I had little faith left. However, now I believe once more and attend church every other Sunday. My life seemed to get better from that point. Now I truly follow my faith and have stayed true to it through the years.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Greetings! Thanks for sharing your inspiring NDE with NDERF! We expect to have it posted (anonymously) in the next few days. I have a question. It is very rare to encounter beings during the NDE that are alive at the time of the NDE. In your account, you indicate what you encountered at the end of the light. 'I saw a beautiful golden gate with three figures. My mother, my grandfather whom I never new but at that moment I felt like I had known him all my life, and a man dressed in white robes and medium brown hair radiating love in waves.' You shared that your mother was at your bedside in the hospital. Was the mother you encountered in your NDE your living mother at the time of the NDE? Thanks! Best regards, -Jeffrey Long, MD.


KENDRA: No! I encountered my real mother in my NDE whom had died by a hit and run. The mother at my bedside was my adoptive mother and aunt.

Thanks for the clarification. One of the most evidential aspects of NDE is that beings encountered during the NDE are almost always deceased at the time of the NDE. Thanks again for sharing your inspiring NDE! Best regards, -Jeffrey Long, MD.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  05-99

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Medication build up leading to a seisure  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   My medication built up to 25.8 and was given about a forty percent chance of survival.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During my out of body experience when I was looking at the nurses.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother, my grandfather whom I never knew and Jesus who gave me my faith back.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A light opened up from the ceiling and I was lifted up. I can't really describe it.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Indescribable love and the feeling of peace and acceptance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'I was raised to love and give thanks to god for everything I have in life and in return he would guide, love and help me through my troubles. However, about 1 year before my experience I was going through a really hard time in high school. All of my friends had graduated b4 me and I was being picked on and in some cases hit by 2 of my classmates and it seemed that I was spending every single day in school and outpatient counseling. I prayed to god every single night for things to get better but he never answered and things stayed the same. Over time I had nearly lost all my faith in god and thought that he didn't love me just like everyone else.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I'm a happier person.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   I am religious but not overly so. After my experience all doubt I had held about my fate left me almost like it wasn't ever there. And I am a much better person today.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm a happier person.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My relationship with God and the aspects of life in general around me are great today; I contribute to the community where I can.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes. Jesus told me that he loved me and confirmed that I wasn't alone and that he's always with me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I had shared it with my sister one week after the experience and my aunt/mother figure five years afterwards. My sister found it enlightening but my aunt didn't seem to believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   One of my friends who was suffering from cancer had had one. I was very religious when I was a little girl before my life had gone downhill. So I had found it fascinating.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I questioned if it was real for a few day's but when my neurologist told me that it took eight nurses to hold me down I decided that it had to have been real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Same as above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kendra_nde.html