{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 1235","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n72_jul_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N72 July 1890","mylang":"de"}
No. LXXII.-VoL. IV. JULY, 1880.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Aal!ocIatell .• ••
Meetings of the Coundl •• .• ••
General Meeting .. .• .. ..
Caaa Recehed bf the Literal')' CommIttee
Correspondence :-
Origin and N&ture of P08t·mortem App&ritionH
Supplementary Llbral')' Ca.t&logue •• •• ••
The oTouru&lls Priv&Uo
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
HONORARY MEMBER.
PAGB
•• 28l
•• 282
•• 283
•• 288
.. iN
•• !9Il
•• 300
SIR }'REDERICK LEIGHTON, BART., P.R.A., 2, Holland Park-road, W.
MEMBERS.
CRAWFORD AND BALCARRES, THE EARL OF, F.R.S., 2, Cavendish-
square, W.
DUGDALE, MRS. STRATFORD, Merevale Hall, Atherstone.
MACQUEEN, lIRS., Grosvenor Mansions, 76, Victoria-street, S.W.
STEAD, WILLIAM T., Mowbray House, Norfolk-street, Strand, W.C.
ASSOOIATES.
CAVE-BROWNE-CAVE, MRS. T., Burnage, Streatham Common, S.W.
CoLVILE, COLONEL HENRY E., C.B., 24, Chapel-street, Belgrave-square,,Yo
GARDINER, REV. EDWARD R., M.A., Fawley Vicarage, Wantage.
HENRY, MISS EVA, 1, Argyll-villas, Cheltenham.
HUTCHINS, D. E., Budleigh Balterton, Devon.
MACKY, DR., 4, Curzon-street, Mayfair, W.
RAPER, R. W., M.A., Trinity College, Oxford.
SAUNDERS, THOMAS BAILEY, M.A., 13, Hyde Park-gate, S.W.
SMITH, JOHN GEORGE, JUN., Hill House, Surbiton.
VAlLATI, PROFESSOR GIOVANNI, Crema, Italy.
ASSOOIATES OF THE AMERIOAN BRANOH.
ADAMS, MRS. GEORGE E., care of Mrs. Perkins Bass, Peterborough,
N.H., U.S.A.
ALEXANDER, L. L., Crystal Mine, Omo Ranch, California, U.S.A.
ANNES, A. L., 416, Third-avenue South, Wansan, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
BEHRINS, ARTHUR, Brockville, Canada.
BRADLEY, MRS. W. H., Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
BURROWS, MRS. THOMAS, The Ontario, Chicago, U.S.A.
COFFIN, CHARLES F., 417, The Rookery, Chicago, U.S.A.
COOPER, JAMES, P. O. Box 1942, l\Iontreal, Canada.
Digitized by Google
!82 Journal 0/ Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. [July,1890.
CRAIGIE, ERNEST J., 134, Peel-street, Montreal, Canada.
DALLAS, GEORGE M., 263, South 4th-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
DECKER, W. S., Muskegon, Mich., U.S.A.
DIETRICK, MRS. ELLEN B., 233, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
ELWELL, MRS. F. E., Sandwich, Mass., U.S.A.
FLOWER, MRS. J. M., 361, Superior-street, Chicago, U.S.A.
FORBES, JOHN C., 10, Ord-street, Toronto, Ont., Canada.
GILBERT, DR. MARY A., 15, East 11th-street, New York, U.S.A.
HARDAWAY, W. A., M.D., 2710, Olive-street, St. Louis, 1\{0., U.S.A.
HASCALL, MRS. MYRA FISK, 117, Waverley-place, New York, U.S.A.
HAWORTH, GEORGE D., 20, Groveland Park, Chicago, U.S.A.
JAMES, H. F., M.D., 2627, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
JEWETT, MISS MARY B., Buchtis College, Akron, Ohio, U.S.A.
KIDDLE, PROF. HENRY, 7, E, 130th-street, New York, U.S.A.
NORDEN, THEODORE L. VAN, 16, West 48th-street, New York, U.S.A.
PALMER, MRS. POTTER PALMER, 100, Lakeshore-drive, Chicago, U.S.A.
PLUMMER, J. W., 52, East Lake-street, Chicago, U.S.A.
QUINBY, REV. JOHN H., East Bridgwater, Mass., U.S.A.
SALTER, W. M., 516, North-avenue, Chicago, U.S.A.
SHAW, MRS. QUINCY A. SHAW, Jamaica Plain, Mass., U.S.A.
SLYKE, J. M. VAN, 23, N. Pinckney-street, Madison, Wis., U.S.A.
WRIGHT, DR. J. P., Lt.-Col., Md. Dpt., Fort Leavenworth, Kans.,U.S.A.
WRIGHT, JAMES A., Man. Federal Telephone Co., Montreal, Canada.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met on the '13th of June and on the 11th of July.
Mr. Walter Leaf was in the chair on the first occasion, and the Presi-
dent on the second. The following Members were also present at one
or both of the Meetings :-Professor F. W. Barrett, Rev. A. T. Fryer,
Dr. A. T. Myers, Messrs. T. Barkworth, W. Crookes, F. W. H. Myers,
F. Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, R. Pearsall Smith, and H. E. Wingfield.
At the Meeting on the 13th of June Sir Frederick Leighton, Bart.,
P.R.A., was elected an Honorary Member.
At the two Meetings four new Members and ten new Associates,
whose names and addresses are given above, were elected. The election
of thirty-one new Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
Thanks were accorded to the donors for two books, presents to the
Libra.ry.
At the June Meeting it was, o.fter full discussion, agreed that Dr.
A. T. Myers and Mr. F. Podtttore should prepare a circular under the
title of "Hypnotism: Its Oonditions and Safeguards," for the con-
Digitized by Google
July,l890.] J01J,'M'/,al Of Society fO'l' P8ychical RR,search. 283
sideration of the Council at its next Meeting, with the view of its being
circulated among the Members of the Society. It was carefully gone
through at the July Meeting of the Council, and with some slight
alterations adopted, and ordered to be printed and sent out with the
July No. of the Journal.
Various matters of routine business having been attended to, the
Council agreed to meet again at 4.30 p.m. on Friday, the 3rd of Octob~r.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held at the Westminstel'
Town Hall, on Friday, July 11th, the President, Professor Sidgwick,
in the chair.
The PRESIDENT gave some account of the progress of the census of
hallucinations. He expressed a certain disappointment at the small
amount of interest shown in the work by Members of the Society. Out
of 700 Members and Associates only about 74 had so far given any
help, and if it had not been for the great efforts made by some of these,
which he gratefully acknowledged, and for help received from persons
outside the Society, the present modest number of answers, 6,450,
would not have been attained-a number not sufficient to make it possi-
ble to calculate with accuracy the proportion of seemingly veridical to
non-veridical experiences. He went on to say that of the 6,450
answers about 11 per cent. were affirmative, and might be divided into
467 cases where the sense of sight was affected, 218 where voices were
heard without any accompanying visual impression, and 58 tactile
cases. Out of these 743 cases 99, or 13 per cent., might be calledprimc:?
facie coincidental, though some of them were of the kind classed in
Plumta8ms 0/Ute Living as "ambiguous." On the other hand, among
cases classed as non-coincidental, were some which there was reason to
regard as not purely SUbjective. Thus there were 7 cases where the
figure or voice of dead persons was phantasmally seen or heard, when
the percipient was unaware of the death; there were 9 cases (7 of an
unrecognised figure, 1 of a recognised living person, and 1 of a recog-
nised dead person) where apparently the same figure was independently
seen by more than one person on different occasions; and finally there
were 55 cases in which the experience communicated was "collective,"
-i.e., shared by more than one person,-besides 10 similarly collective
experiences already counted with coincidental ones. In a certain
number of the experiences, however, the figure taken for a phantasmal
one was probably a real person, and the fact that a disproportionately
large number of collective experiences took place out of doors made it
specially probable-for reasons explained by the speaker-that 0. good
Digitized by Google
284 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1890.
many of these were real. Some collective experiences, however, seemed
to be clearly hallucinations, and this being so they were, of course, of
great theoretical importance in considering the nature and origin of
hallucinations generally. The President went on to discuss some possi-
ble explanations of collective hallucinations, illustrating his remarks by
cases communicated by persons answering the census question, and con-
cluding with an account of an experiment in collective hallucinations
recently made with hypnotised persons.
MR. F. W. H. MYERS then read the first part of a Provisional
Report " On alleged moveme~ts of objects, without contact, occurring
not in the presence of a paid medium." He reminded the meeting that
the late President of the Society for Psychical Research, Professor
Balfour Stewart, had in 1887 formed a committee to consider a report
on the phenomena commonly called Spiritualistic. That committee
had now collected and discussed a certain number of narratives of
movements of the nature above described. They did not, however,
think that the time had come for any collective expression of opinion,
and had requested the speaker to prepare an ad interim account of
evidence received, with the object rather of explaining the points at
issue, and of inviting fresh testimony, than of pronouncing on the true
meaning of the testimony already received. When this Society was
founded in 1882, some of its active members had already had a long
experience of paid mediums, with very mixed results. They hoped that
the formation of the Society might lead persons obtaining phenomena
in private circles to allow an opportunity of witnessing them. This
hope, however, had been to a great extent disappointed. It appeared,
in fact, that very few of such private circles now existed, while those
which did still exist seldom reported their results even in the Spiritual-
istic Press. The amount of effort and experiment now going forward
in this direction was much smaller than some had supposed. Apart
from paid mediums, little fresh evidence had been adduced by Spirit-
ualists since 1882.
In considering the facts before the committee, it seemed desirable
to make in some sense a new departure by investigating the phenomena
as they stood, without taking into account the still more contentious
matter connected with the theories by which they were commonly
bound together. Thus in our present inquiry into physical phenomena
we could classify the alleged cases, not according to the medium through
whom they occur, nor to the spirit supposed to originate them, but
according to the special group of otherwise attested phenomena, occur-
ring apart from regular mediumship,-such as automatism, telepathy,
post-mortem apparitions, and thc like,-with which each alleged case of
physical movements bore some apparent connection.
Digitized by Google
July,189O.] Jottrnal oj Society jor Psychical Researclt. 285
If there were any truth in Spiritualism it must surely (the speaker
urged) be in some sense continuous with other truth. The evoked
phenomena must be a development or a systematisation of the spon-
taneous phenomena, rather than a wholly new manifestation.
We should do well to divide our cases roughly into three main
groups, determined by their analogies with other evidence.
A. Physical movements connected with automatism; or not defi.
nitely pointing to the operation of other intelligences than
those of the persons present.
B. Physical movements connected with telepathy between lhing
persons, or near the moment of death.
C. Physical movements associated with phantasms of the dead; or
phantasms of that obscure class with which cases of "haunt-
ing" had made us familiar.
There were also certain cases of sporadic and apparently motiveless
movements, which, if not due to some ordinary but overlooked cause,
nevertheless aft'orded us no definite indication of the nature of their
supernormal source.
The speaker appealed for further experiment and more exact records,
and concluding by asking
PROFESSOR BARRETT to read an account of a very interesting series
of phenomena which occun-ed in a private circle.
Some discussion followed, and Mr. X., the gentleman who had
furnished the account read by Professor Barrett, kindly answered
several questions asked by different persons present.
MR. MONEY questioned the appropriateness of the word "hallucina-
tion" as used in the publications of the Society and in the President's
address, and suggested "appearance" as a substitute.
The PRESIDENT, in replying, referred to his previous address on the
present cenSus of hallucinations, in which the use of the term was
explained and justified, and also to Chapter X. of Phantasms 0/ the
Livi'Tifl. If, however, some other term equally appropriate and more
generally acceptable than "hallucination" could be suggested he would
be quite willing to adopt it in any new investigation. " Appearance"
was, he thought, clearly too general a word.
PROFESSOR BARRETT pointed out that "appearance" was also in-
appropriate in the case of auditory and tactile experiences.
A GENTLEMAN who described himself as a disbeliever in Spiritualism
and in the researches of the Society told very graphically a story illus-
trating the way in which unconscious exaggeration may cause often-
n>peated stories to grow, and thought that this was II. source of error
overlooked by the Society. He also ga,·e II. brief account of some suh-
jective hallucinations of his own, and thought the word a good one.
Digitized by Google
286 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Resea'f'Ch. [July, 1890.
The P~ESIDENT remarked that if the speaker had been familiar with
the pUblications of the Society he would know that possible exaggera-
tion had always been taken account of where there was any probability
that it had occurred.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 842 Col1ective.-Visual.
The percipients in the following case are sons of Mr. Ellwood, a
chemist residing at Leominster. From an account previously sent to us
by Mr. Ellwood, sen., we learn that the percipients are respectively
19 and 23 years of age. The brothers were sleeping together, and the
elder of the two is the writer of the account we print. The first experi-
ence occurred on December 20th, 1889.
Leominster. February 12th, 1890.
The following is just a short account of what I saw on the first occasion
mentioned. It was, I think, about 6 a.m., just getting light. I had been
awake a short time and I suddenly heard the door open (the door was on the
jar all night), and saw a shortfigure in a nightshirt walk in and stand looking
at me by the side of the bed. I distinctly heard a sound of breathing or
rustling of the nightshirt, and I thought at first that it was my father walking
in his sleep. Then I thought it might be a burglar (although why a burglar
should be dressed in a nightshirt I don't know), so I said, "What is it1" then
I jumped out of bed and rushed to catch hold of the figure, when it vanished.
My brother also saw the figure standing at the bedside, and after I jumped
out of bed he saw the figure glide round towards the foot of the bed and
then vanish. I did not see it after I jumped out of bed. We both searched
well but could find nothing. .
On the second occasion it was about the same hour in the morning and
on the same day of the week. The bedroom door was shut all night on
this occasion, and I was lying awake when I saw the door open and some one
peep round. I thought it was one of our assistants come for a lark to pull
me out of bed (as we do those kind of tricks sometimes) j however, I lay
still, and then the door seemed to open wide, so I leaned out of bed to give
it a hard push and everything vanished, and I nearly fell out of bed, for the
door was shut as when I went to bed. My brother was asleep this time and
saw nothing.
I can positively swear that this is as correct an account as I can give, and
I distinctly sawwhat I have mentioned. I was awake both times (not dozing,
but distinctly awake). I was also in good health and had not been up late,
&c., the night before. I may add that befor:e this occasion I did not believe
ill ghosts, or anything in that way. I really and truly thought a man was in
the room, and I intended collaring him when I rushed at him.
W. M. ELLWOOD.
P.S.-I only saw the head of the second figure, but it was, as near as I
could tell, like the first figure.-W. E. .
Digitized by Google
July, 1890.] Journal of Society fO'¥' PBychical ReBearch. 287
To this account the younger Mr• .Ellwood adds :-
I also saw and heard all my brother did.
(Signed) M. J. ELLWOOD, JUN.
It occurred to Mr. Ellwood, senior, that the figure might be con·
nected with his landlord, who was lying ill at the time and has since
died. This gentleman was an intimate friend and had a special affec-
tion for Mr. Ellwood's younger son~ He is also known to have
interested himself in the place during his last illness. But no definiw
coincidence can be'made out.
Mr. Ellwood also informs us that his house has the reputation ot
being haunted, but the only phenomena observed appear to have beel),
unexplained noises before the deaths of several of Mrs. Ellwood'&
reltl.tives.
L. 843 Collective.-Visual.
The following is from the Rev. Canon Underwood. Mrs. Under.
wood is dead, so that her evidence cannot be obtained.
Riston Vicarage. January 21st, 1889.
My DEAR MR. MYBlIS,-I very willingly comply with your request,
though it seems to me a very unimportant contribution to the research of the
Society.
About 30 years agone, one morning in the late spring of the year, between
2 and 3 a.m., I awoke and, contrary to nly habit, turned in my bed on to my
left side, which brought me facing the light, and faoe to face with the figure
of my brother-in-law, who appeared standing at the bedside, full dressed,
wearing a well-known (to me) white hat and top coat. He seemed to be
looking intent, with his hands upon the bedolothes. It was his usual mien,
and nothing unusual marked the expression of his countenanoe. I was about
to rise when the vision passed away; it was the &frair of only a few moments.
For fear of disturbing my wife, I kept silence, and soon went again into
slumber. At 6 o'clook we were both awake and preparing to rise for the
day, when my wife asked me, "Did you see anything unusual this morning,
. early ~ " I tried at first to evade the question, but she said again, "I saw
something. It was the appearance of Mr. G. He was standing by my bed-
side. He was dressed as usual, but as though he had been out for a walk."
I found that in every particular our experienoe ooinoided. She, too, for
fear of disturbing me (for I had not been well) restrained her alarm.
We expected, of course, to have had some distressing news by the morn-
ing, or midday post, but there was nothing then or afterwards, to supply a
connecting link between the real and visionary. We were living at Liverpool,
and our friend at Riohmond, in Surrey. He lived for 20 years after that
occurrence. Though an honourable man, he was narrow-minded and some-
what of a puritan, and consequently I did not investigate the matter further.
I have, however, tried to date back for circumstances, and the only one that
I now remember is, that about that time my brother had an unpleasant affair
with the subject of our waking moments [hision), indeed a quarrel of some
Digitized by Google
288 JO'Urnal oj Society JO'l' Psycltical Research. [Jwy.18lO.
continuance, and I partly favoured my brother, and incurred something short
of an anathema from the other. My wife, one of the gentlest and moat
peace-loving of women, was of courae anxiously concerned, but I do not
remember that she interfered in any decided manner as to entitle her to such
consideration. Perhaps, however, it might have been a visit of difl'erent
character to me. At any rate the account here given of the matter is per-
foetIy true, and accords with my views of the connection between the
physical and psychical in man.
The other matter I mentioned to you is too tri1ling to take account of.
About three weeks since, about 6 a.m., I was wide awake, and expecting
every minute the housekeeper to come to my door for the plate-basket and
keys. While musing, all at once, I distinctly heard the well-known voice of my
wife (who died last April), clear and distinct, call out apparently from my
side-" Emma" (the Christian name of her maid, the housekeeper). This is
only curious in that my departed wife knew how strict I am in enforcing
punctuality in every one and thing domestic.
C. W. UNDBBWOOJ).
-----------------
G. 194 Collective. Visual.
From a lady who does not wish her name to be printed.
June 13th., 1890,
Many yean ago I 88W at my father's house a grey shadow, whioh
I have never ceased to wonder about, nor been able to explain. I was
in the drawing-room with my mother and sister. The fire was brightly
burning, and the lights full up. We were about to retire for the night, and
as we rose my mother called my attention to some defect in the make of
my sister's dress and asked her to tum round so that I might see it. This
she did with her face towards the fire and away from the door. While my
mother and I stood each side of her looking interestedly at the dreaa I heard
a slight sound and we both looked towards the door, which was a little way
open, and I88w standing there a tall grey figure, with one hand on the handle
of the door. My mother, like myself, looked at it for some time, speechless,
and sheat last 88t down which diverted my attention, and when I looked again
the figure had vanished. It was very tall and had on a long grey dressing.
gown; the face was clean shaven and the hair raised high on the head. The
collar wasloose, pointed,and tumed down, leaving the throat (which was finely
formed) open. I particularly noticed also the beautifully-shaped hand and
wrist that rested on the handle of the door, and the loose rather short cu1f.
Altogether, the generally distinguished and gentle air of this most singularly
distinct yet shadowy presence was remarkable.
All the servanta had gone to bed, and only my father beRides ourselves
were in the house, and he was reading in his study.
I lived some time in the house after seeing this shadow, but never 8811" it
again, nor have I ever since seen anything anywhere of the kind.
L. E.
The next account is from Mrs. E.'s mother.
JUnt, 1890.
I have a very vivid recollection of the.grey shadow of No. 14, and have
Digitized by Google
July,l890.] J&U'1"'1I4l 01 Society 1O't· Psychical Researclt. 289
often thought about it, but have never been able to account for it. We
were jUlit preparing to go up to bed when I was startled by the shadow in
the doorway, apparently holding by the handle of the door. I looked at it
until I was almost frightened, and sat down again in my chair, and when
I next got up the thing had vanished and I never saw it again. This is all I
can tell you about the grey shadow.
A much more astonishing case than the grey shadow, which I don't think
I ever mentioned to you, happened to me that very summer. It was just
as I went down to the kitchen to speak to one of the Ben'&nts, and in coming
upatairs again at the very top, outside the door, stood a man of middle size,
which for the moment I took to be your brother. He was wiping hill face
with a white handkerchief; the evening was very warm and bright, and the
moon was at the full, and shone on the figure so that I could l18e it quite
distinctly, so much so that I particularly noticed the peculiar cost he wore-
it was a drab cutaway, and that caused me to look again, for I said to myself
I never saw my son in a cost like that; however, he vanished into the back
garden somehow or other, and I never saw or heard anything more of him.
Some years afterwards I was talking to a gentleman, and he told me he
knew the owner of the house; he was a Quaker gentleman, and lived in the
house himself, and owned the property round about. He said my descrip-
tion was wonderfully like him.
In giving an account of this incident to Mrs. Sidgwick viva voce,
Mrs. E. stated that footsteps which could not be accounted for were
often heard in the house where it occurred. The date of the experience
must have been some 30 years ago.
The narrative which follows also describes a collective experience,
but a less clearly hallucinatory one than the three already given, since
the possibility of the sounds having been real sounds misinterpreted is,
from the nature of the case, difficult altogether to exclude. In this
case, on the other hand, there is a marked coincidence, which would
have afforded a probability that the experience was a veridical hallucina-
tion if the supposed agent had been a human being. Whether it ought
to be so interpreted in the present instance must depend on the
answer to be given to the general question whether thought-transfer-
ence between animals and human beings is possible:-a very
interesting question, but one which it would be rash to answer in the
affirmative without a good deal more evidence than we have at pl"eSent
obtained.
L. 844 Ae pa Collective Auditory. Animal Agent. 1
The following is part of a letter from Mrs. Beauchamp, of Hunt
Lodge, Twyford, to Mrs. Wood, Colchester.
Here is a sort of dream presentiment story! Last night-Megatherium
[a small Indian dog] sleeping with [my daughter] -I woke, hearing him run
round my bedroom. I know his step 80 well. [My husband] wolte too. I said
" Listen... Hesaid, "It is Meg... We lighteda candle, looked well, there was
Digitized by Google
290 Journal of Society f01' Psychical Research. [July, 1890.
nothingand the door was shut. Then I had a feeling somethingwas wrong with
the dog-it came into my head he had died at this minute, and I looked
for my watch to see the time, and then I thought I must go up and see
about him. It was so cold, and it seemed so silly, and while I was thinking I
fell asleep. It must have been some little time after, someone knocked at
the door, and it was [my daughter] in agony. "Oh! mamma, Meg is dying."
We fiew upstairs. He was lying on his side like dead-his legs stretched
straight out like a dead thing's. [My husband] picked him up, and for a while
couldn't see what was wrong, for he was not dead. Then we found he had
nearly strangled himself-got the strap of his coat somehow from under his
stomaoh and round his neck. He soon revived and recovered when we got
it oft', and he could breathe freely. I shall always in future go and see, if I
have such a distinct feeling about anyone. I could swear I heard his patter
so distinctly round the room, and so did [my husband].
In answer to inquiries made some months later, Mrs. Beauchamp
writes :-
Colonel Beauchamp paid so little attention to the circumstance at the
time that he says he could not undertake to write an independent account.
I cannot recollect any other experience of any hallucination of such a.
distinct sort. It made a great impression on me. . . . There was
no other dog in the house that night and I could not possibly have heard
Meg from the room where he was, on another fioor, and at another end of
our large rambling house, with both doors closed. My .bedroom door was
closed so that no animal could have come in to the room and left it before
my search.
Mrs. Beauchamp further informs us that she is exceptionally fond
of dogs, that her own particular dogs have been like friends to her,
and that she had had this one for eight years. It is not possible
to ascertain whether the dog's distress had begun at the time of
Mrs. Beauchamp's experience.
L. 845 Experimental thought-transference. Visual.
The following account is from the Dowager Marchioness of Down-
shire. She is unable to recall the .date but says that it happened
possibly 40 years ago. The account was written in the winter of
1889-90.
Our readers will remember that other instances of Mr. H. S.
Thompson's experiments are quoted in Plumtcul'TIls of tIle Living.
Vol. I. Chap. III.
Several years ago I was suft'ering from brow ague, and Mr. Thompson
(of Yorkshire, a well-known and very powerful mesmeriser) mesmerised me
several times. Apparently it had no eft'ect, beyond taking away the pain.
We went to Calais and as I was very much knocked up from various causes
I went to bed when it was still twilight; Afters little while I saw distinctly,
at the foot of my bed, Mr. Thompson's head. I don't believe I had been
thinking of him, and I had not been to sleep. The head remained for a short
Digitized by Google
Jttly,1890.) Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8ea'Y'ch. 291
time and then disappeared. The next day I wrote to Mr. Thompson, and
asked him what he was doing exactly at the hour I Raw his head, but did not
mention what I had seen. His answer was: "I went to the theatre with
my daughter, and between the acts I willed you to think of me. I wanted to
see what effect my mesmerism had had upon you. "
C. DOWNSIDRE.
L. 846 Experimental Thought-transference.
The following case was obtained for us by Miss Bertha Porter, from
her friend Madame Lancia. It is much to be desired that Members of
the Society for Psychical Research should try similar experiments, and
record the result.
June 20th, 1889.
In the beginning of a very precious friendship, which has now lasted
nearly 20 years, I unexpectedly found I had an afternoon and evening free,
so I determined to spend it with my friend. She lived at Brixton, I in
Devonshire-street, Portland-place-a long journey to take on the chance of
finding her at home. Suddenly I thought, "I will test the power of our
sympathy," and I opened the window that looked out towards Bruton,
and, ca.lling her by nsme (mentally), I said with conscious intensity, and a
conviction, too, that she would feel what I was saying, "Don't go out this
afternoon, for I am coming to spend it with you."
Directly after luncheon I went, and as I opened the gate of the garden
in front of her house she herself came to the door, saying, "I knew you were
coming, and was watching for you." I asked her how did she know I was
coming 1 " Oh !" she answered, "I seemed to hear you tell me not to go
out, and I was going out with the girls (her daughters), but have put it off,
so sure did I feel you would come." The girls went out alone. I think my
friend quoted the very words I had myself said at the open window.
FLORENCE LANCIA.
The next is Mrs. Baker's account :-
17, Baldry-gardens, Streatham Common.
June 21st [1889].
It is about 17 years ago, when very intimate with my friend Madame
Lancia, I, one afternoon, was going out with my children, and suddenly
something seemed to say to me, "No, don't go ; she is coming" ("she" being
my friend Madame). I yielded to the intense impression and to my full belief
that she 1V01tld come, and stayed in. She did come over. I immediately
said, ' , Well, how strange ; something said to me you would come." Then
she told me how she had opened her window and breathed, "I am coming,
little niother." I don't suppose my children would remember my having
said she would come, but the coincidence was often talked of by us all as
being very remarkable.
ANNIE W. BAKER.
Madame Lancia and Mrs. Baker are unable at this distance of time
to feel sure that they compared the time of the former's willing and
292 Journal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [July, 1890.
the latter's impression. All that Madame Lancia can now say with
certainty on this point is :-
I kllow that the "willing" and the change of plans of the "willed" came
10ithin the space of a couple of hours.
P. 133 Monition. Auditory.
Communicated by Mr. D. Fraser Harris, B.Sc., Lond., who is
acquainted with the percipient, Mrs. Edwards. Mr. Fraser Harris
:!aYS : -
Mrs. Edwards is a widow lady, and an American, but of English
extrsction; she describes herself as being . . . not imaginstive, not
credulous, not eccentric, not hysterical, and is not of a neurotic constitution.
She has had one or two "low nervous fevers," but neither in the feverish
condition nor in that of convalescence has she had any hallucinstions.
Throughout her entire life she has been "haunted" with presentiments
(beingable to foretell future events both in her own life and in other persons'
lives), as well as being tormented by "voices" and "visions." . . . She
describes both the "voices" and "visions" as being invariably of the nature
of int,·,tdet·s, bursting in upon and disturbing the current of thoughts at the
moment. . . All the hallucinations were most vivid and apparently "real."
. . . Mrs. E.'s only daughter is the subject of similar hallucinations.
Mrs. E. yet hears voices, often daily for some time.
The very earliest occurred when she was quite a girl. On this occasion,
when she was in a crowd, a voice by herside (apparently) said, quite distinctly,
"That man will be your husband." The person whom she was looking at at
the moment did, years after, become her husband. At the time of the
announcement she did not know him; the "spell " of this shaped her course
when she ultimately did make his acquaintance.
Once, when asleep, Mrs. E. was awakened in the middle of the night by
a loud voice, telling her that a particular white dress (which should have been
in a trunk that was being paoked) had been stolen. She rose, lit a light, and
searched the trunk to find the dress was not there.
After giving four instances of vivid and interesting visual hallucina-
tions of human figures,* probably purely subjective, Mr. Harris eon-
tinues :-
Auditory hallucination with sequel.
This occurred in the year 1845. Mrs. E. was in good health, and had, at
this time, had none of the before-mentioned fevers, which came on between
the ages of 30 and 50.
Mrs. E. had slept well, and was in the act of getting up, when, apparently,
the quiet was broken in upon by an announcement being made as though
someone had come in at the bedroom door and said, in a loud voice, these
words: "To-day, at six o'clock, you will die." There was nothing more, but
these words seemed to resound throughout the room.
Mrs. E. resolved to tell no one of the announcement, and also not to brood
* One of these appeared to be reflected in a looking·glass.
Digitized by Google
July,1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 293
over it, if possible, at all. To accomplish this she went, in the course of the
afternoon, to the house of a married sister of hers, where there would be sure
to be something more or less stirring going on.
This had the effect of distracting the attention from the certainly very
distressing prophecy, and Mrs. E. had the benefit of her sister's society till
six o'clock began to be struck by the clock. As it commenced sounding
Mrs. E. said to herself, "There now, it's six o'clock already, and nothing has
happened;" but the statement was premature, for before the chime ceased
blood was gushing out of both nostrils in a copious stream. The alarm was
raised, and the whole household flocked round and applied the usual remedies
of cold keys, &c., but quite without success. This profuse and alarming
1uemorrhage did not cease till bucketfuls of cold water were poured on the
head and down the spine. When the doctor arrived he said a very large
quantity of blood had been lost, and life only just saved and no more.
As might be well expected, Mrs. E. was very weak for days after this
occurrence. Though this was the first in point of time of the more im-
portant hallucinations of Mrs. E.'s life, it is, in certain respects, quite tho
most extraordinary by reason of the striking sequel to and almost completo
fulfilment of the prophecy. D. F. H.
Mrs. Edwards adds:-
I certify that this report is correct.
ISA.BELLA S. EDWA.RDS.
Mrs. Edwards' sister, Mrs. Coleman, at whose house the hremorrhage
occurred, writes corroborating her sister's account.
P. 134 Monition.
From a lady known to F. W. H. M., received June 3rd, 1890.
In the sUmmer of 1888, I was living in the little mining camp of R-,
in the Rocky Mountains. Our house, a frame building, was some little dis-
tance from any other, at the top of a steep hill ; the only disadvantage of
this being the additional difficulty of getting water, which was an expensive
commodity in R- as the adjacent mines had drained most of the wells,
Ittnd we had either ~o carry it a long Witty, or buy it in barrels at 50 cents.
each.
TIle house contained six roolUS, all opening one out of another, my own
room, with Itt dressing closet beyond, where my child slept, being at one
extremity, and the front porch, which overlooked the valley, at the other.
One evening, after my little girl was asleep, I lit a tiny night-lamp,
always left burning on a bracket in her room; and, leaving all doors and
windows open, on account of the intense heat, went to sit in the front porch.
I may have sat there half an hour, when my attention was caught by a great
blazing light in the direction of the furthest houses. It appeared evident
that one at least had taken fire, and the difficulty of getting water, and the
hope that no children were in danger, flashed through my mind. While
watching the rapidly growing glare, I heard a faint crackling sound in my
own house. It would not have disturbed me at any other time, as I only
supposed that some smouldering piece of cedar in the kitchen stove had
blazed up. But, with tho present thought of lire in my mind I went into
Digitized by Google
294 Jowrnal of Society for P8ychical Resea'l'ch. [July, 1890.
the kitchen to look, and, glancing through the open doors as I passed saw a.
volume of fiame and smoke pouring from the child's room into mine. Thank
God, it was still possible to rush through and save her, and I carried her
back in a blanket to prevent the scorch, for the room was only burning at
one end ; the side where the bed stood, though fearfully hot and suffocating
was not yet on fire, and, thanks to the timely warning, we had just
enough water left in the barrels to cxtinguish the flames before very much
was destroyed, though they were making headway terribly fast on the dry
lumber. After all was quiet I went back to the porch to look at that other
burning hOllse, feeling 80 thankful that my child was safe, and wondering
anxiously if others were also. But all wall dark, and when I came to make
inquiry next day, nothing was known in R- of any such fire. And had it
not been for my strange vision of it, which must have lasted fully 10 minutes,
I feel sure that my little girl would have been burned to death.
On the night of May 21st, 1890, I was staying at F--, in England. I
always burned a nightlight in the bedroom I shared with my little girl. It
stood in a saucer of water upon a wooden corner bracket, and I had never
had any accident with it. At about a quarter to two I was waked suddenly,
and very much startled by hearing myself called-not only the imlJresswu
but the actual sound of the voice ringing in my ears as I jumped up in bed.
The name called was an abbreviation of my own, not used by anyone in
England. When I found that all was quiet in the house, I lay down, think-
ing how strange it was that this particular form of my name, which I had
not heard' for many months, should have becn used. Half a minute later,
not only the paper case, but the grease, of which at that hour my nightlight
was full, caught fire, making a blaze which threatened the bracket, and
might have set fire to the wall also, but that, thanks to having been waked,
I was able to jump out of bed, and extinguish it directly.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE ORIGIN AND NATURE OF POST-MORTEM APPARITIONS.
To the Editm' of the JOt'RNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PsycmCAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-Although it seems difficult to assert that apparitions are external
realities in the sense of having an objective basis, it still cannot be said that
the opposite theory is free from difficulties. Probably no one would maintain
that it was.
Let it be granted that an apparition is veridical, i.e., that it corresponds
to facts in the condition or history of the agent, and that it has no objective
basis. Then it must originate in one of two ways; either as a creation of
the percipient's mind in response to a telepathic stimulus, or as a. complete
projection from the mind of the agent, directly upon the sensory centres of
the brain. In the first case it would correspond to a suggested hallucina~ion
during hypnosis. The whole question is claborately discussed in Phanla81/1,S
of the LiIJil!g, Chap. XI!., where the first of these two aspects of the subjec-
tive genesis of a. phantasm is upheld. But-ill the case of an apparition to
Digitized by Google
July, 1890.] Jou,rrud Of Society f01' Psychical Research. 295
whom some abnormal appearance is veridicallyattributed (/l.U., a drowning
man dripping with water, or one whom we have known in younger days as
bald, or grey, or wearing a beard) it is open to this objection-that this
feature of his case, not being known to the percipient, cannot be the creation
of his own mind in response to a telepathic impression of the:mere personality
of the agent. In that case the latter would externalise itself as the perci-
pient was accustomed to think of it, including such elements as apparent age,
dress, &c. The authors of Pha1~tasms attempt to escape the dilemma by
supposing that the general aspect of the apparition is self-evolved, and the
peculiar aspects projected (Vol. I., pages 554,555), an opinion which, how-
ever convenient for their argument, seems to me too Procrustean to satisfy
an independent inquirer.
On the other hand the second view rests on no certain analogy to the facts
of hypnotism, and has little to recommend it beyond its obvious convenience.
It is, moreover, open to the objection that phantasms of the dead appear, as
far as I know invariably, with the symptoms of age, decrepitude, or de-
formity, which they were subject to in life. The theory of projection would
require us to believe that these symptoms were carried over in permanence
to the disembodied state-a. view as improbable as it is depressing.
But once more; whichever variety of the subjective hypothesis we adopt
may be subdivided into central and centrifugnl. That is, it may begin and
end as a mental concept externalised by mere force of suggestion, or it may
be a sensory impression, either originating, or taking shape, in the visual
centre, and thence propagated downwards to the retina. There is a remark-
able experiment on record at the Salpatriere which bears on this question,
and which does not seem to me to have attracted as much attention as it
deserves. A hypnotised woman was shown a white card, which she was told was,
and accordingly saw to be, red. Afterwards, being shown another white card
without any suggestion, she said it was green. Another woman who had lost
the perception of violet in both eyes, and to whom it always looked black,
obtained the after-image of black upon an hallucination of yellow (the com-
plementary colour of violet). These were very ignorant women of the lowest
class, who cannot be supposed to have ever heard of complementary colours,
much less to have been an fait with them. * Now complementary colours arc
produced, as is well known, by retinal fatigue. " The red image has in fact
fatigued the part of the retina on which it fell for red light, but has left it
sensitive to the remaining coloured rays of which white light is composed.
But we know that if from the valiously coloured rays which make up the
spectrum of white light we take away all the red rays, the remaining rays
together make up a sort of green." t
Here, then, is a positive demonstration of the reversa.l of the ordinary
current of sensation. The word "red" spoken to the ea.r must have first
been idealised as sensation by the mind, and thus impressed upon the visual
centre, whence it was propagated downwards to the retina. This is, in fact,
an object-lesson in hallucination.
But we are still far from the end of our difficulties. If apparitions have
* Animal Magnctulll, p. 253. Binet and Fere. Eng. Trans.
t Elcmcntarg Phgaialogu, p. 221. Huxley.
Digitized by Google
296 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [July, 1890.
a subjective origin, whence the cold aura which is 80 generally testified to by
those who have seen phantasms of the dead, though scarcely ever in the case
of phantasms of theliving1Whence, again, the preference for certain localities,
so often observed in phantasms of the dead, but not at all in those of the
living 1
The case of General Barter and the spectralsyces and pony of Lieutenant
B. has been cited as disposing of the objective basis of apparitions. But we
are confronted at once by a precisely similar difficulty on the other side.
One of the most commonly reported incidents connected with a post-mortem
phantasm is the evident terror shown by dogs and other domestic animals,
present at the time; * a feature which, again, is absent, so far as I know, in
phantasms of the living. If the origin of the phantasm is subjective, i.e.,
if it originates in the brain of the percipient, how are we to account for the
perception extending to animsls who have no sort of interest in the matter 1
To set up thought-transference from the percipient in such a case would be
to press that hypothesis almost to absurdity, and certainly far beyond any-
thing we have experimental warrant for.
The old difficulty about the clothes of the ghost, always brought up
against the objective theory of post-mortem apparitioll8 might, I think, be
turned in this way. If we assume an objective basis, we must admit that,
cOll8idering the rarity and evanescence of the appearance, it is something
taken on by the disembodied spirit at a certain time and place. But if the
spirit can thus take on the semblance of the human form (either voluntarily,
or, as seems more probable, automatically), there is no reason why it should
not take that semblance clothed as easily as unclothed. It would naturally,
in fact, wear the appearance to which it had been most accustomed.
Persoll8 who talk glibly of "spirit" and "matter" sometimes forget
that of the former we know absolutely nothing, and that the latter is known
to us only as representation, and not as the thing in itself. Pure spirit is in
fact unthinkable. For either it must be infinite and omnipresent, or it
must P088ess form, extell8ion, and locality, all of which are properties of
matter. Is" spirit" simply" matter" in a condition of indefinite tenuity 1
or are the two combined in an organic body like an acid with a base forming
a chemical compound equally unlike either 'I (For what can be more unlike
a living body than the dead elements of whioh protoplasm is composed 1)
Is electricity "matter" 1t Is a shadow "matter" 1 If not, then that which
is not matter may yet be objective, or atleast may be objectively apprehended.
I ask these questions with no expectation of an all8wer. But I conceive it
p088ible that we may ultimately, in the words of ProfessorTyndall, "discern
in that matter which we, in our ignorance of its latent powers, and not-
withstanding our professed reverence for its Creator, have hitherto covered
with opprobium, the promise and potency of all . . . life.":::
But I have no theory to uphold. Rather would I urge upon all who are
investigating this most deeply interesting of all human problems-the
" In this very ca.se it will be remembered that the living dogs presen~ with
General Barter evinced fear and whimpered when he saw the apparition.
t OJ. W. H. Preece, Address to the British AS8Ofliation, 1888.
::: Belfast Addre88, 1874.
Digitized by Google
July,1890.] Journal of Society fm' Psychical Research. 297
evidences of a future state-to content themselves with the patient and con-
scientious observation and accumulation of facts, obtained at first hand, and
rigorously sifted.
In the meantime there is plenty of work for the experimental student.
We cannot indeed capture a ghost, whenever we want, and take him into the
laboratories for analysis or vivisection. But we can, by more than one
method, investigate the nature and laws of our own psychic constitution, and
from these build up a knowledge of what to expect in, and how to test the
evidences ipr, a psychical existence in a future state. And this not by
dubious and ever contnmictory systems of metaphysics, but by the sure
methods of inductive research. In the first place we have, in hypnotism, a
process which has already revealed to us the wholly unexpected fact of a
secondary passive personality (or, as some hold, many more besides), lying
below our active consciousness, wrapped up as it were like the moth in the
chrysalis, a discovery destined, I believe, to modify, if not to revolutionise,
all pre-existing metaphysical systems. But the field of hypnotic research
has already been so fully covered that, just for the present, it is difficult to
see what more can be done in it. Automatic or planchette writing, on the
other hand, has scarcely gone beyond a drawing-room amusement (except as
a mode pf Spiritualistic communication which is not now under consideration).
Those who are willing to pursue this method of psychical research with a
scientific aim, free from Spiritualistic or other prepossessions, and to take
the pains of making every experiment with a definite aim, may be able to
throw a greater light upon the constitution of the human spirit than by most
other means I know of. But it is essential that the experiments (whicll may
be made by any child for whom the instrument will act) should be conducted
by some person who has given attention to the subject, or knows what is to
be attempted. I shall be very happy to offer any suggestions of this sort in
my power to anyone who may do me the compliment to ask for them.
THOMAS BARKwoRTB.
Chigwell, Essex.
P.S.-Since the above letter was written I have made an examination, as.
carefully as circumstances permit, of the cases published by the Society,
from which I gather that while the "ghost chill" has been recorded in much
less than 1 per cent. of Phantasms of the Living, it is mentioned in about 7
per cent. of recognised Phantasms of the Dead, and nearly 14 per cent. of
recognised and unrecognised together. The feeling of chill is also frequently
alluded to in the records of seances with Mr. Home. Of the cases of animal
terror I have not found one produced by a recognised Phantasm of the Lh'illg,
but about 12 per cent. in other cases, nearly all unrecognised, but gener-
ally assumed by the percipient to he post-mortem for reasons more or less
cogent.
A discussion ofMr. Barkworth's main argUlllent would seem to beimpossi-
ble without entering into the "dubious metaphysics" which he desires to
avoid. We will only point out that there is an ambiguity in the word "objec-
tive," which may either be understood to mean real though purely psychical
existence independent of the percipient's mind, or may be used to imply
Digitized by Google
298 .J01'-MUll of Society fOI' Psychicctl Resect1'ch. [July, 1890.
some mode of material existence. The" objectivity" of ghosts in the latter
sense appe8l'8 to us to involve difficulties, the gravity of which Mr.
Barkworth has perhaps hardly recognised.
Moreover, the distinctions drawn by him between phantasms of the living
and phantasms of the dead in respect of (1) the sensation of cold some-
times experienced by the percipient, (2) the appearance of the phantasm in
particular localities, and (3) the terror of animals, are scarcely, we think,
justified by the facts so far collected by the society. Al~ these points are
interesting and should at some future time be fully discussed with all the
light that can be thrown on them by the evidence available, some of which
will be furnished by the ce118US of hallucinations now in progress. We may,
however, now make one or two provisional remarks bearing on them. Appari-
ti0118 of human beings may be divided into three classes, viz. :-(a) recognised
apparitions of living people; (b) recognised apparitio118 of dead people; (c)
apparitions which are not recognised at all and which may therefore represent
living people or dead people or have no relation to anyone, living or dead.
This classification is as appropriate if we consider only those apparitions
which there is some prima facie reason for regarding as having some
cause external to the percipient's mind,-and which we may for brevity
call veridical apparitions (using the word in a wide sense),-3s if we include
the much larger number which there is at present no such reason for
regarding as other than purely subjective. But the comparative numbers of
the classes are different in the two cases. Among veridical appariti0118,
recognised apparitions of the living are the most numerous, then unrecognised
apparitions (this class including most of the collective cases and cases where
figures are seen successively and independently in "haunted houses" and the
like), and lastly, recognised apparitions of the dead. Taking all apparitions
together, however, unrecognised apparitions are the most numerous, then
recognised apparitions of the living, and again lastly, recognised apparitions
of the dead.
Clearly in any comparison between apparitions of the living and of the
dead the unrecognised class must be treated as neutral ground, and not
assumed to be apparitions of dead persons ; and we are the more concerned
to call attention to this because we fear that our practice of numbering Ull-
recognised phantasms, with those of the recognised dead, among" G." cases
in our collectio118 may be apt to lead to Bome confusion ; and this confusion
may perhaps be increased by the inclusion by Mrs. Sidgwick and by Mr. Pod-
more of "haunted house" cases, where the "ghost" is entirely unrecognised,
in papers entitled "Phantasms of the Dead."
The feeling of cold spoken of by Mr. Barkworth is occasionally testified
to with all classes of apparitions-of the dead, of the living,. and unrecog-
nised ones,-but not at all generally with any of them.* Very likely, how-
ever, it may be experienced more often than it is mentioned; the traditional
idea of the hair standing on end when a ghost appears suggests this. Mr.
Gurney, who had probably made a more complete study of the casual hallu-
cinations of sane persons than anyone· else, often expreSBed in conversation
the opinion that this feeling of cold was a not uncommon accompaniment of
* I am unable altogether to follow Mr. Barkworth'a eatimate of the Dumbel'll.
Digitized by Google
July,18OO.] Joul'jud Of Society fO'I' Psychical &seal'ch, 299
purely subjective hallucinations, depending probably on the physical pro-
cesses, whatever they may be, which accompany these; aud he regarded the
fact that it also occurred in the case of veridical phantasms as one of tho
reasons for believing the experience in these casetl to have the same hallu-
cinatory character as the subjective ones, though differently originated.
As to the appearance of phantasms of the dead in particular localities,
there are, we think, very few well authenticated cases where an apparition
clearly recognised as that of a definite dead person ,'ec1Ir1C in a particular place.
There are, on the other hand, several cases of solitary appearances where the
only link between the percipient and the dead person whose figure is seen is
the locality-where in fact the locality of the apparition leads to its recogni-
tion, But in the case of phantasms of the living, locality also plays all
importsnt part, though usually it is obscured by much stronger links between
agent and percipient. Among veridical cases there occurs to us one quoted
in Phalltann.& of the Living, Vol. I., p.54O (No. 2(0), where a young man
who, in delirium, in Australia, imagines himselfon the lawn at home, is seen
on the lawn by hissister; and also No. 35, Vol. I.,pp.225-6- nota visual case-
where Mr. Newnham, dreaming of hisfoUlcie going upstairs, runs after her ill
his dream, and clasps her round the waist, and she-actuallygoing upstairs at
the moment-hears the step and feels the clasp, In non-veridical appari-
tions of living persons, locality is often an element-for instance, it is very
common for such apparitions to represent persons living in the same house
as the percipient and to appear in the house in places where the living per-
Hon might naturally be seen. In one of these cases a gentleman ..haunted "
his own drawing-room, his figure being seen there on two occasions inde-
pendently by different members of his family! Again, we have some cases
where A, waiting for B, sees him coming in the direction from which he is
expected.
Finally, as to the terror of animals. The only instance we happen to
remember of its occurrence in connection with an apparition known to be a
post-mortem one is General Barter's; though there are, of course, several
instances of dogs and horses showing alarm when something mysterious WI!.8
seen or heard by their masters, or in places supposed to be haunted, 'Ve
have one where a dog was alamled by a sound said to have resembled the
footsteps of a deceased person when nothing was seen; and a similar one
(B. L. 31) where a dog was alarmed by the sound of footsteps which appar-
ently coincided with the delirious imaginings of an absent living brother of
the percipient's. But a good deal more evidence is required before it can be
confidently affirmed that animals share in phantasmal expflriences-a pro-
position which, from the nature of the case, is vcry difficult to prove, on
account of the difficulty of asccrtsining definitely the cause of the aninlal!i'
emotion.-ED.
Digitized by Google
300 JOU1"1wl of Society f01' PHyckical Reseal'ck. [July, 1890.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
AdditWIM iii/Ice tlte last list (" Journal" for May).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
BJORNSTRoM (Fredrik, M.D.), Hypnotism: Its History and
Present Development. From the Swedish ...... New Yark, 1889
DOUBLE PERSONALITY (British Medical JOIITnaZ, May 17th, 1890),
London. 1890
KRAFFT·EBING (Dr. R. yon), An Experimental Study in the
Domain of Hypnotism. From the German, by Charles G.
Chaddock, M.D..............................................New Ym'k, 1889
MOLL (Albert, M.D.), Hypnotism. From the German (2 copies).
Lmulmt. 1890
LuYS (Dr. J.), LeQOns Cliniques sur les Principaux Phenomenes
de l'Hypnotisme ............................................. Paris, 1890
--Les Emotions dansl'etat d'Hypnotisme et l'action a. distance
des Substances Medicamenteuses ou Toxiques ......... Paris, 1890
BUCHNER (Prof. Dr. L.), Das kiinftige Leben und die moderne
Wissenschaft............:.........................................Leipzig, 1889
--Fremdes und Eigenes aus dem geistigen LebenderGegenwart
Leipzig, 1890
MESMER (Dr. F. A.), Mesmerismus, oder System der Wecl18el-
wirkungen, &c., herausg. von Wolfarl (Dr. K. C.) ... Berlin, 1814
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
EPITOllIES OF THREE SCIENCES :-Comparative Philology,
Psychology, and Old Testament History. By H. Olden-
burg, J. Jastrow, and C. H. Cornill .....................Ohicago, 1890*
HrMAN NATURE. Vols. VII!., IX., X., X!., and Nos.•January to
July, of Vol. XII ..................................:...........LmLdml, 1874-8
AKSAKOF (Alexander), Allimismus und Spiritislllus. 2 Vola.
Leipzig, 1890
MANETHO (G.), Aus Uebersinnlicher Sphare ..................Vienna, 1890+
NErE SPIRITL'ALIST1SCHE BLATTER, Vol. VIII., Nos. 1-...Berlin, 1890
* Presented by the publishers. t Presented anonymously.
THE JOURNAL IS PRIVATE.
I feel bound to call the special attention of Members and Associates
to the fact that the Journal is printed for private circulation only,
because annoyance has been caused to some of those who have obliged
us by sending accounts of psychical experiences, through the unauthor-
ised reproduction of their accounts in newspapers.
It is very important, therefore, to secure that no extract from the
Journal shall be printed elsewhere without the Editor's permission,
and I trust that all Members and Associates will take such precautions
as may be necessary to secure this,-especially in case they lend their
copIes (Jf the JO'Ull'nal to other persons.
HENRY SIDGWICK.
Digitized by Google
