{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kelly_s_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Kelly S Possible NDE 6002","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kelly S Possible NDE 6002  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kelly S Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2832 Kelly S Possible NDE 6002  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					For weeks I had been feeling painful tugging and cramping in my lower left abdomen. The cause was unknown.  All pregnancy tests had been coming back negative, except for one blood-based test.  The gynecology surgeon was sure, based on that test, that it was a tubular pregnancy. She wanted to operate immediately, as this situation had been going on for weeks.  She and I discussed the surgery, and, since I had not eaten in the last 12 hours, she felt it was safe to take me into surgery right then and there. 

As I had never wanted children, I asked that she tie off the right tube, since she was already going to be removing the left tube, and possibly the ovary, as well.  She and I got into a heated discussion over the topic. It ended with her saying that if I were twenty-four and had 4 kids, she would do so, but, 'Since you do not have children of your own, you really do not know what you are giving up.' I went under rather upset because she would not tie my tubes. 

The next thing I remember was flying over a large expanse of dark water, heading toward a green land.  There was an entity flying to my right above and behind me, so that I could not see him.  He told me that once I reached the Green Land (Island?) that I saw ahead; all my questions about everything would be answered.  However, if I went there, I could never come back, nor could I ever communicate those answers to anyone still here on earth. 

We were just getting close enough to hear this wonderful music, when the entity said it was time for me to decide to go back or to go forward.  I had just had the thought that my husband would not begrudge me this chance, when I was yanked back and slammed back into this world, with bright lights and pain. 

I remember saying 'I was not supposed to come back this time. Damn you all to hell.'  The surgeon and anesthesiologist said it sounded like the true curse I had meant it to be. I could not remember who I was, where I was, or anything. It took me a couple of hours to put myself back together. 

To this day, I wish I had not been forced back here, and I am still very resentful over the situation.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 1984

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   It was thought that I had a tubular pregnancy, so the surgery was unplanned, but not a life-threatening emergency.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Before going under anesthesia and during the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I wore, and wear, glasses for near-sightedness. During my experience, I was not wearing glasses.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     It seemed to me that the passing over the 'dark body of water' to the 'land of green harmony' could be taken as being symbolic, rather than 'actual.'  But at the time, I felt like I was going back to my real, innermost home.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, relaxation, no stress, no hurry.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     No one can go through something like this and not have some of their religious and spiritual beliefs and practices change at least a little bit.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     At the time I was starting to become disillusioned and disappointed in mainstream religion and was starting to look at the belief systems of other countries and peoples.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The right to die question now has a very personal meaning for me. I feel that we, the human race, are playing God just as much by keeping someone alive as by allowing someone to choose their own death and assisting in it.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     "All questions will be answered when you get to the land ahead" was all the answer I could get out of my guide unless the question dealt with my decision of to go or to stay

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     "All questions will be answered when you get to the land ahead" was all the answer I could get out of my guide unless the question dealt with my decision of to go or to stay

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     "All questions will be answered when you get to the land ahead"  was all the answer I could get out of my guide unless the question dealt with my decision of to go or to stay

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No   It was stated that I would have the true answers to all my questions, which implies that my 'life' would continue on.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     "All questions will be answered when you get to the land ahead" was all the answer I could get out of my guide unless the question dealt with my decision of to go or to stay

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     It was stated that I would have the true answers to all my questions which implies that my "life" would continue onward

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     "All questions will be answered when you get to the land ahead" was all the answer I could get out of my guide unless the question dealt with my decision of to go or to stay

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Not that I noticed or can recall but it has been a long time.  Three years later, I moved out of the area.    

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Like most of my memories parts are like snap shot photographs especially the more emotionally charged ones.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my husband within hours of me getting out of the recovery room.  His was pissed that my right to choose had been taken from me.  Other than that, he thought it was a very interesting event and accepted my word as fact.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   It happened. It was real. It was not a dream.  At that time, I had been dreaming almost every night, and this was NOTHING like the dreams I had been having at that time. In fact, it was nothing like any dream I have ever had, before or since.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kelly_s_possible_nde.html