{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kelly_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Kelly T NDE 4854","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kelly T NDE 4854  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kelly T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2461 Kelly T NDE 4854  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I grabbed a pillow and blanket, and fell as asleep on my mother's lap on a Sunday afternoon as I wasn't feeling well. I then remember seeing a bright light and suddenly being up in the sky just above my parents' apartment building. I didn't feel alone. I felt the presence of an angelic light being who was with me to my right. It felt very peaceful! We hovered in the sky watching my father in sheer panic carrying my lifeless body out of the apartment building with my mother and little brother following. I saw my father place my body in the backseat of the car and saw them rush to the hospital. I then remember hearing my family's voices (parents, aunts, uncles) all calling out my name, asking me to wake up. I sensed the being that was with me giving me the okay to return to my body. I then remember darkness, hearing their voices a little louder, and then waking up in a hospital bed with my family surrounding me in tears. I woke up in complete peace, turned to my mom and said, 'Mommy! I saw an angel!' After that, I remember the hospital staff placing me into an ambulance to transfer me to a specialized children's hospital.

When my dad rushed me into the emergency room, the doctors told him that even if I lived; I would live the rest of my life mentally challenged (as that's what happened with one of my friend's sister). I was very blessed and very lucky to survive and to return 'normally.' Granted, it killed a lot of my brain cells and learning in school became very difficult for me. After years of healthful living, I'm more intelligent than most girls my age, now own my own company in Beverly Hills and model!

After this NDE, I became a very spiritual little girl! I would often wander off into the woods to spend time alone in nature, build birdhouses for birds using grass and twigs, sang songs, completely clicked with the music of Enigma (pretty deep for a seven year old) and felt as though I had the soul of a Native American Indian! My mom had me walk in a procession within that year (we were Catholic) to give thanks to God for my life. I began asking her questions like, 'Who's God? Why are we here? Who was that angel that I saw? When's the beginning and end of time?' I developed a strange fascination for the beginnings, ends, and truths of things. Going to church didn't fulfill my spiritual answers and needs. At seven years old, I had no choice. Things have changed quite drastically over the past three years when I experienced my spiritual reawakening and have come to more and more into my spirituality and learning about my NDE. It's truly amazing and I'm quite grateful for the experience!!! It also helped love, light-filled place, and me to be okay with death as, when we 'die,' our souls continue in a very peaceful!

According to my psychic here in Beverly Hills, she stated that this happened because at the time of my mother's pregnancy with me, things were bad in her life - so bad that her negative energies and emotional blocks, blocked the progress of my soul. I was born a very sad little girl crying constantly! My father had to drive me around in his car for almost two hours every night in order to get me to fall asleep. Even up until the NDE, I was a very sad little girl who cried all the time, didn't talk to anyone in school, and felt very lonely. Because of my mother's emotional block which blocked the progress of my soul's development; she stated that a gift wasn't passed through while I was in my mother's stomach. She said that I needed to 'die' in order to obtain these gifts from the other side in order to complete the development of my soul with what I needed to succeed in this life cycle. Those gifts have made me so successful today doing what I love to do! I needed to be reborn. (She actually stated that the next time I talk about this with anyone that I should refer to it as my rebirth rather than a near-death experience.)

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  08/08/1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness  Undiagnosed bacterial meningitis along with a seizure which resulted in my death.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I fell asleep on my mother's lap when the seizure occurred that caused my NDE.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the sky with the angel/light being watching over my family. It was very strange watching chaos unfolding just below us and it not having any sort of emotional effect on me. It was SO peaceful!!! Once I returned to my physical body, I felt like a new being! Completely refreshed, revitalized, and filled with SO much love and peacefulness!!! Very much like how I live my life now :) I knew that the way I had felt at that time was how I wanted to feel all the time!!!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I didn't feel as though I was there long. It was much like a dream - when you experience a dream or two that don't feel long yet, when you wake up, hours have gone by! I have yet to find out how long I was 'dead' for.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It seemed slightly softer yet clear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was as though I was sleeping and went into a dream state. At first, I thought it was a lucid dream. But once my parents told me what had happened and where I was, the experience made much more sense to me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The being didn't communicate with me. At the time, I didn't know them. I have recently found and fell in love with my twin flame soul mate who, at around the same time, also had a near death experience. When I had my NDE, the being's energy felt familiar. I had had a few dreams about my twin flame soul mate and felt the same energy. It wasn't until a few months ago that I had the most amazing dream that showed me that he was the light being/soul that was with me during my NDE.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright yet soft.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I only recall being in the sky with this light being/soul/angel watching my family carrying me out of the apartment building and laying me on the backseat of their car.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete peacefulness!!!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I began having dreams of my twin flame soul mate and just 'knowing' that he was out there, that we would meet and spend the rest of our lives together, what his hobbies and talents would be, the connection we would share, and the things he would do for me.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Heck yeah! For one thing, Catholics don't believe in reincarnation. It got me to see that religion wasn't real. What was real to me was living life to its fullest, positively, filled with love, light, peace, etc. I went into Yoga and learned meditation as well as the chakras. I learned about Buddhism, Hinduism, Catholicism, etc. and formed my own beliefs. My friends thought I was weird for believing in God and science. I learned that my own beliefs actually brought me close to that feeling of peace during my NDE experience. I feel it strongest when I'm with my twin flame soul mate! Once I moved to California (just this past year), I discovered a place called Agape and it has been my 'church' for the past few months. They believe in much of what I believe in and are open to all religious backgrounds. It's a very loving, spiritual, peaceful, positive place without all religious ceremonies like baptism and communion, for example.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Heck yeah! For one thing, Catholics don't believe in reincarnation. It got me to see that religion wasn't real. What was real to me was living life to its fullest, positively, filled with love, light, peace, etc. I went into Yoga and learned meditation as well as the chakras. I learned about Buddhism, Hinduism, Catholicism, etc. and formed my own beliefs. My friends thought I was weird for believing in God and science. I learned that my own beliefs actually brought me close to that feeling of peace during my NDE experience. I feel it strongest when I'm with my twin flame soul mate! Once I moved to California (just this past year), I discovered a place called Agape and it has been my 'church' for the past few months. They believe in much of what I believe in and are open to all religious backgrounds. It's a very loving, spiritual, peaceful, positive place without all religious ceremonies like baptism and communion, for example.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt much more spiritual and felt complete within myself. I felt like deep down inside I 'knew' a lot and had SO many deep, philosophical, and spiritual questions about the universe, people, relationships, feelings, time, psychic powers, telepathy, soul mates and twin flames, etc. I felt as though I had to uncover what I suddenly 'knew' deep down inside. Unfortunately, because of my strict family's Catholic beliefs, I wasn't allowed to feel this way, have these questions, or feel as free as my soul knew I should be! It wasn't until my spiritual reawakening about three years ago, when I made some very life-altering changes in my life, that these things just came to me and I found my twin flame soul mate!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Absolutely!!! It gave me the gift of 'knowledge' of knowing that my twin flame soul mate was out there. I knew the male version of me was out there. I knew what his likes and dislikes would be. I knew he would be the only person in the world to understand me and love me just as much as I do him.  He would 'get' me; our love would be so strong, that it could conquer anything; no matter how bad things would get (challenges would arise), our love would always overcome those challenges giving us a strong foundation for a long-lasting love; and we would live 'happily ever after'. It was as though I knew I was meant to live this life to find true love, and I have!!!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Psychic visions, premonition dreams, and just 'knowing' things about my personal life that were going to happen.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not until the past couple of years. I knew that no one in my life before my recent spiritual reawakening would understand. I kept it to myself until I met a like-minded spiritual person like myself who, in fact, was the one to introduce me to my twin flame soul mate. Luckily for me, he's just like me and we're completely open, honest, and understanding of one another - like we're the same person in different bodies! The male version of me! (These were all things I knew I would find when I found him!)

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     At first, I thought it was just a dream. A little while later (the same day) I asked my dad questions about it and described to him what I saw. He and my mother cried when I told them.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was a very real experience that I'm very grateful for! I feel as though had I not experienced this NDE, I wouldn't be whom I am today or would have even found my twin flame soul mate! It also showed me that there's no reason to fear dying.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   In a way. My ex-husband was very abusive; so much so he tried to kill me on a few occasions. I remember one occasion in which he was strangling me on the kitchen floor. I felt myself fading away, my life starting to flash before my eyes, and I urinated. Luckily, he stopped just in time!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I'm very happy with your website!!! It's nice to come across a site with people who have had similar experiences as me in regards to NDE and soul mate relationships. Great job!!!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kelly_t_nde.html