{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ken_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Ken G NDE 197","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ken G NDE 197  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Ken G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						657  Ken G NDE  197  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I went to have a hernia repair, a one-day deal, but they kept me overnight.   I stayed in the hospital from 26th November till 30th November.


The next morning, at around 5:00 am, I had a liver and kidney failure.  The body began to fill with fluid.  I stopped breathing.  I remember watching medical staff from the corner of the room.  At first, I thought that there was someone else in the room whom they were working on. Then I realized it was me.  I felt peace and no pain.  I felt someone else in the room but they didn't say anything, they were just watching like me.


I wish they had let me go, as I will die of liver failure (HCV), and don't want to go slowly.  It was the first time in years I felt no pain and was at peace.  If I could go back, I would!

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    11/27/2002

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related  I assume as the Dr did that HCV played a large part  Clinical death I had liver and kidney failure.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was watching from a corner of the room.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Confused.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I believe there was someone to my right that wasn't part of this medical team and was there to meet me.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     I am very confused about it. Everyone says it wasn't your time, but I wish they had let me go.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I didn't want people to think I was nuts as I was very confused.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best was the feeling of no pain, peace. Worst is not staying there as I have pain each day.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Yes! Most didn't want to hear it as they didn't want to believe that my HCV is this far along.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It was real, there is something about it which I don't know but am seeking an answer.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ken_g_nde.html