{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9686","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v2_n31_aug_1886.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V2 N31 August 1886","mylang":"de"}
No. XXXL-VOl.. n AUGUST, 1886.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
Ne.. Memben! and Asaoclates . . . . . . . . . . . .
Meeting of Council •. .• . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bow and what to observe In relation to Slate·wrltlng Phenomena..
eu. received by the UteraJ")' Committee
Correspondence . . . . .. . .
.. Pbantaams of the Uvlng" .. . .
Supplementary Ubrary catalogue
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
PAGE
•• 361
•• 361
•. 362
•• 376
•• 379
.. 384
•• 384
TRAVERS, JOHN CORY, F.LS., Wood Lea, Bedford Hill, Balham, S.W.
MALcOLM, TilE HON. MRS., Achnamara Bellanoch, Lochgilphea.d,
Argyleshire, N.B.
ASSOCIATE.
.AsHCROFT, REV. THOMAS, 185, Lansdowne Terrace, Chorley, Lancashire.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 30th ult., Professor H ..
Sidgwick in the chair, the following Members were a.lso present :-
Messrs. Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney, Richard Hodgson,
F. W. H. Myers, and Frank Podmore.
The Minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Two new Members and one new Associate, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected.
Some books were on the table as presents to the library, which are
acknowledged in the Supplementary Catalogue, and for which votes of
thanks were passed to the donors.
The monthly cash account was presented in the usual form, and the
necessary amounts passed for payment.
It was agreed that a General Meeting of the Society should be held
at the .Suffolk Street Rooms on Friday, the 29th of October. The
chair to be taken at the usual hour, 8.30 p.m.
The next meeting of the Council will be held on Friday, the 15th
of October.
z
362 Jov,)')wl of Society fol' Psychical Rest-moe/I.. [Aug.,l88G.
HOW AND WHAT TO OBSERVE IN RELATION TO
SLATE-WRITING PHENOMENA.
By ANGELO J. LEWIS, M.A. (U Professor Hoffmann "), Author of
..l[odern J[agic, &c.
. Having for some years mode II. special study of the subject of
Natural Magic and of the methods of conjurers, I have been requested
(as an expert, and in II. quasi-professional capacity) to read and criticise
a series of reports (appearing in the JQtIA'nal of the Society for June) of
sittings with Mr. Eglinton. I am asked to say whether, and to what
extent, the phenomena described are oonsistent with trickery, and to
iudicate any points wherein the observation of the witnesses is likely
to have been defective or misdirected.
It seems to me, however, that a paper confined strictly within the
above lines would be too speculative to be of much practical value.
Upon the hypothesis of trickery, these accounts must be taken to
l'6present (as do all descriptions of conjuring effects by uninitiated
persons) not what the witnesses actually 811.W, but what they believe
they saw, which is a very different matter. The main outlines of each
narrative are probably correct; but if the description could be com-
pared wit~ the reality, it would be found that there was a little
omission here, a little inaccuracy there; here a circumstance that was
not noticed, there another that has been forgotten. I am not seeking
to disparage either the good faith or the general acuteness of the
witnesses, but merely stating II. defect which is inseparable from aU
d6!iCriptions of conjuring tricks of which the secret is not known to the
describer. I myself claim no exemption from the rule. For the last
quarter of a century I have taken every available opportunity of
witnessing conjuring perfonnances, and haye mode a practice of
immediately afterwards taking a careful note of any novel combination
or effect. In so doing I frequently find the greatest possible difficulty
(even where the general working of the trick has been clear to me) in
recalling exactly what was done-the precise sequence of given move-
ments, and the like. Very often a second visit has shown that my first
impression was wrong in material particulars. If such ia the experience
of a person practically familiar with conjuring, and able to make a
pretty close guess at the modUB operandi of the trick, what chance has
an outsider, however Beute, of giving a precisely accurate description'
It must be borne in mind that the observation of the witness has been
ex l£ypotll.Ui intentionally misled, it being the main aini and art of the
conjurer to lead the attention of the spectator away from material
points, and to direct it upon unimportant matters. I have frequently
been m"oured by friends with descriptions of magical feats they have
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1886.] Jou,~U(l 0/ SocUty /0'- PsyclticlLl Resem'C/", 363
witnessed, and, knowing the real facts, have been intensely amused at
the wide discrepancy between the romance and the reality. Upon the
hypothesis of trickery, therefore, it may safely be assumed that even
the most accurate of these accounts vary more or less from the actual
facts; but, on the other hand, it would be obviously absurd for any
person not an eye-witness to profess to say precisely how far they are
accurate, or to pronounce dogmatically on any given point that the sm-
disant eye-witness was mistaken, and that the true fact was so and so.
lt seems to me that I shall best serve the end in view by offering
investigators a little practical counsel as to how and what to observe in
relation to slate-writing generally, calling attention to the possible
means of deception, and illustrating my remarks, where practicable,
hy reference to the series of reports before mentioned.
It must be taken that the sole point at iuue for the purpose of the
present paper is simply whether the effects seen are produced by
human artifice or not. If not, there is still room for considerable
difference of opinion as to the agency by which they are produced; but
this is a branch of the question with which I have at present no concern.
My observations will be directed solely to the best means of sifting
_wheat from chaff, and detecting trickery, if any such be employed.
In the first place, in order to have a fair chance of detecting the
modw operandi of a conjuring trick, it is necessary to see it severnl
times repeated. The k~nest expert will often be puzzled by a new
trick, the first time of seeing it. But on a second visit he will note
that some slight and apparently accidental movement, say the mere
dropping of a handkerchief or slate, or the turning aside to a table
to pick up some object, which occurred <and attracted no particular
notice) on the first occasion, is again repeated. It is a. reasonable
inference that this supposed accident is in reality of the essence of the
trick. Having got thus far, his next inquiry will be, What is the o~ject
-of this particular movement 1 It may take two or three more visits
satisfa«:torily to answer this question, but at each additional visit It.
little more of the veil will be lifted, the inferences drawn will be more
-certain and more precise, till at last the whole process becomes clear to
the patient observer.
The same process should be applied to the examination of alleged
'Spiritualistic phenomena. It cannot be too strongly insisted on that
any single manifestation, however startling and apparently inexplicable,
is inconclusive in a scientific sense. If, however, the same phenomenon
is again and again repeated at short intervals before the same witnesses,
~h successive repetition increases the likelihood of detection, if the
z 2
Digitized by Google
364 JOU1~Ul.l of Soc-iety tm' Psychical lWlem'CIt. [Aug., 1886.
effect is produced by trickery. If, in the course of sel-'eral repetitions, no-
suspicious circumstance has been noted, the probability of the genuine-
ness of the manifestation may be said to increase in geometrical
progression. The first items of advice, therefore, that I should give to-
investigators would be:-
1. Sit repeatedly, and at short intervals.
2. Try over and over again for the same kind of manifestation.
3. Note if any apparently accidental circumstance has a tendency
to repeat itself; and if so, fix your attention keenly on that circum-
stance, and find out what it covers.
The chief advantage of the expert over the outsider in such a matter
is that the former, from his knowledge of the general principles of con-
juring, knows better what form of trickery is likely to be used, and is
less liable to overlook seeming trifles. In the case of slate-writing
produced by trickery there are five alternatives, which practically cover
the whole ground.
1. The writing may be then and there executed by the medium.
2. A alate, on which writing already exists, may be substituted for
the one first shown.
3. The slate used may already have writing upon it, but at the out-
set invisible, and rendered visible either by the application of some
chemical re-agent, or, as in the case of marks made by an agate stylus,.
rendered invisible by washing, but again becoming visible as the surface
dries.
4. A slate may be used with amovable' face, which may be dis-
carded at pleasure, and reveal a written surface beneath it. In the
case of a folding slate, the nlOvable portion may be made to drop from
the one side into the other j leaving two new faces exposed.
5. The characters may be "printed" by the medium from some pre-
pared surface. This may be done in the act of drying the newly-sponged
alate with blotting-paper, the characters being previously written
thereon, reversed, with a special description of chalk. This on the white
surface of the paper attracts no attention. *
It will be observed that the four last alternatives are dependent
upon previous preparation, and these may, therefore, be disregarded
where an answer indicating special knowledge (nota mere "yes" or "no"
or other answer of general application) is obtained to a question not
previously known to the medium. Similarly in the case of a given
word written in reply to a request made by the observer, on the spur of
the moment, for that particular word. In such cases, therefore, the.-
• Thill is the method adol'tet.l hy 1\ well·known French conjurer.
Digitized by Google
A.ug., 1886.] JOU1"1Ull of Soc·iety fm' PSYChiCld lWJearclt. 365
whole vigilance of the spectator may be directed to one point, .".iz., to
ensure that the characters are not then and there written by the
medium himself. Such writing may be effected in various ways :-
(I) By a minute piece of slate pencil or crayon inserted under the
thumb or finger-nail.
(2) By a sort of thimble, carrying pencil or crayon, and slipped on
the end of the thumb or finger.
(3) By a point of pencil or crayon attached by wax or other means
to the under surface of the table, the slate being moved against such
point in order to produce the writing.
If there is an honest desire to exclude all these possibilities, the
best plan, assuming that the slate must he placed under the table at all
(as to which I shall have more to say hereafter) is to attach it firmly,
by means of screws or screw-clamps, to the under surface of the flap.
This does not in the least interfere with the medium's making contact
with the slate in the usual manner, while on the other hand it is obvious
that it must save him much fa.tigue.* The slate should be attached and
removed by the investigator himself, and the question to be answered
or word to be written should not be stated until the slate is actually
a.ttached as above. It is as well in all cases that the slate used should
be the investigator's own property.
In the case of a "long message" filling the slate, the precautions to
be adopted are of a different character. Here it may be taken for
granted that the me8t'a.ge will not be written by the medium under the
eyes of the witnesses, and the vigilance of the spectators must be
<lirected against the use of an already prepared slate. The best way to
exclude this is to insist on the use of the spectator's own slate, coming
<lirect from his own custody, and so unmistakably marked lUI to render
it absolutely impossible that any other could be, even temporarily,
substituted for it without attracting instant attention.
'Vith these few hints for the general guidance of investigators, I
pass to the consideration of the body of evidence before us, and in
the tirst place, I would pause to remark upon a fact to which, I think, the
-experienceof most inquirers will testify,-indeed, it is repeatedly noticed
in these reports. Where a single word is actua.lly written in response
.to request, or an answer of two or three words is given to some ques-
tion formulated on the spot, it usually occupies a very peculiar position
on the slate, namely, clolHJ to tll.e frame, and witl, tll.e top, qf tll.e utter,
• At my two last sittings "ith Mr. Eglinton, I attached the IIlate in this
manner, Mr. E. 88IIuring me, in reply to a question, that the 80 doing would not
at all aft"ect the conditions. But if 80, why is not 8uch a ve_rr, convenient
.arrangement (not merely as a test, but in the interest of the JIleu.ium himself)
always adopt4ltl !
Digitized by Google
366 Journal of Society fm' Psyckical ReselL1'Clt. [Aug., 1_
tmDtwd8 1M medium. (See diagram of slate in the case of Messrs.
Bennettand Vicars, p. 320.) Now this atfirst sight would appear to be
a proof of non-intervention on the part of the medium. It might be
argued, with some show of reason, that, even if he produced the writing
himself, he could hardly do so at the remote end of the slate, and
still less upside down. Granted, but if he turned the slate round in i~
own plane (by no means 0. difficult matter), then wrote the words, and
once more reversed the slate, that is precisely the position they would
occupy.* Again, the single word or short message is generally
in 0. weak, scrawly, scarcely legible handwriting. This was the
case with the only word which has ever been written in my own
presence (see p. 328), and in the "I do like you" written by "Joey"
in compliment to Miss Symons (p. 312) it is stated to have been un-
certain whether the second word was "do" or " clid," a tolerably clear
indication as to the general character of the writing. Now this feeble,
struggling sort of writing is just what we should expect if the wonts
were written by the medium himself, under the obvious difficulties of
having with the same hand to support the slate, and at the same time
to conceal the fact that he is writing. On the other hand, where
one of the long messages, filling the slate, is produced, in which
CI\Se it may be safely inferred that the writing is no' then and
there produced by the meclium himself, two points are usually
noticeable. First, the wording of the message is of 0. vague,
general character, having no special reference to the immediate circum-
stances of the case, "a sort of general treatise on Spiritualism" (pp. 293
nnd 314); and, secondly, it is in a bold, flowing hand, with none
of the weakness and effort perceptible in the shorter communications.t
These two characteristics are exactly what one would expect in a
message written at leisure beforehand, and either rendered visible by
chemical means, or exchanged bodily for the slate previously in use.
Another point which strikes an expert in conjuring as suspicious is
the request to sitters to talk of indifferent matters, and noe
• In the report of ProfesHOr Lodge anti Mr. Gurnev (p. 291) it will be noted
that at the til'Bt sitting the writing was .. at the entl of tlie slate furthest from
Mr. Eglinton, and upside tlown in relation to him," but at the subsequent sit-
ting (p. 292) where the slate was attached hy a string to Professor Lodge'"
middfe finger throughout (and the slate therefore could not ~ibly be turned
round as suggested) II the writing was at the end of the slate nearest ?tlr.
Eglinton, and was turned towards him."
t In the account given by Mr. Murray (p. 296) he sa),", .. All writing
except Answer 8 was in one style, i.e., the sallle hantl. No.8 was different." All
save No.8, it "ill be found, were short DleM&g8.'I. As to No.8, Mr. Mt1I1'AY
says, "Two IIlates held on upper surface of tahle. Mr. Eglinton IlIlked for 'soDle
communication of interest.' The slate was filled "ith writing in 1_ than ontl-
and a·half minutes."
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1886.] Journal of Society JiJl' PRyekicul Be-sMwelt. 367
specially to fix their minds on the work in hand. If, as suggested, the
writing be the work of BOme intelligence gathering power from the
surplus force of the sitters, it would seem that the result would
be likely to be promoted by a Wr degree of concentration, if not active
exertion of will, on their part. On the other hand, the greater part of
a conjurer's power lies in the misdirection of attention, and if the object
were to divert the notice of the sitters from any personal manmuvres of
the medium, the request to talk and think about indifferent matters
would be readily intelligible.
In this connection I may pause to remark on an assumption which
runs through the .majority of these reports, and which is habitually
accepted by casual inquirers, namely, that the writing, as a matter of
course, taka place w//.6n t//.6 BOUnd qf writing is /lIJard. To the mind
of an expert in conjuring the assumption should rather be the other
way. Writing on a slate can be efiOOted without any appreciable
sound, and on the hypothesis of trickery 'the supposed BOund of writing
would probably not be audible until the necessary manipulations
were concluded, and it became desirable to call attention to
the writing as then proceeding. This observation suggests a possible
explanation of a class of cases which have hitherto seemed to me more
than ordinarily "staggering"; those, namely, in which writing is said
to have been produced between two slates while laid, not under, but
upon the table. To the production of writing on a slate simply held
by the medium under a table, I should attach very small importance,
such production being, I should say, with practice, within the reach of
any conjurer; but when I have been told by credible witnesses of
writing being produced between two olean slates held between the
medium and another person in full light above the surface of the
table, I have hitllerto been compelled to own myself unable to suggest
any natural solution of the phenomenon. I note, however, in the present
series of .reports, that in one or two instances the witnesses mentiol')
that the joined slates were held under the table for BOme time (pro-
fessedly with no effect), and being afterwards brought into full view, the
BOund of writing was heard, and on examination writing was found upon
them.
Now why, in the cases referred to, were the two slates put under
the table at all 1 The placing of an uncovered slate in that position
(at aU times a suspicious and unsatisfactory proceeding from a scientific
point of view) is justified by the supposed necessity of producing a
certain amount of darkness. But in this case two slates are placed
one upon the other. The space between them is already dark and
shielded from observation; the placing of the slates under the table
adds absolutely nothing in these particulars, and the writing is
Digitized by Google
368 Jou,"lUIJ, of Society for Psychieal lUsefJ/I'Ch. [Aug., l.886.
professedly produced, no' while the slates are under the table, but
after they have been again brought into full view above it. Why then, if
not to facilitate trickery, were the slates placed under the table at all I
I have sought in vain for any satisfactory answer to this question. On
the hypothesis of fraud, the placing the slates under the table
is intelligible enough. It may be reasonably supposed that the
writing is really executed while the slates are under the table, the
spectator being deceived by the sound subsequently produced into
believing that it is executed at the later period. This view of the
case seems to have suggested itself to Messrs. Hodgson and Hogg
(po 290); but it is one which would certainly not strike the majority of
unskilled observers, and it is conceivable that in many of the ca.ses in
which writing is alleged to have been produced between joined slates in
full view, the fact that the same slates have been previously held under
the table for a time has been suppressed, in perfect good faith, by the
witnesses, either from forgetfulness, or from regarding the circumstance
as unimportant, seeing that, in their belief, nothing took place until
after the slates had again been brought into view.
Any Spiritualist who is honestly desirous (as I am persuaded the
majority are) of excluding the possibility of trickery, will do well to insist
that all slate-writing manifestations shall be produced with the slate Oft
the table, turned face downwards if need be, or covered with another
slate, but never, even temporarily, placed under the table. This is not
making any inadmissible demand, for Spiritualists assert that writing
is frequently procured under the circumstances named. If so, let
them abandon altogether a more than doubtful class of manifestations,
"nd stick to conditions under which fraud is, if not impossible, at
any rate infinitely less likely.
With regard to the class of cases in which a given word of a certain
book (page, line, and number of word being chosen haphazard) is
written on the slate, they scarcely carry conviction to the mind
of an expert in conjuring. I pass over the familiar conjuring
expedients for " forcing" the choice of a given page or word,
as I think there is tolera.ble evidence that no such expedient
was here employed; but the table, again, plays a very sus-
picious part in connection with a.ll these cases. The book is laid
upon the slate, and the slate placed out of sight under the table.
Robert - Houdin was able, in full view of his audience, a.nd using his
left hand only, to open a borrowed watch, read the number, and again
close it without attracting suspicion. It would surely be " less difficult
feat, under cover of the table, to open the book (usually, be it
remarked, a light and thin one) at the given page, and note the word
Digitized by Google
.Aug., 1886.] Jotwrwl of Society fOl' PWYCILical &8em'ClL. 369
.demanded. If the medium can do this, the elaborate precAutions with
which the word is selected are obviously immaterial. In every cnae ill
which the" book test" appears in these reports Mr. Eglinton was
avowedly cognisant of the page, line, &c., demanded, and, therefore, the
III&rvel in these cases reduces itself simply to the issue, "Could he,
-without the knowledge of the sitters, have got a sly peep at the
required word 1"* Mrs. Brietzcke (p. 296) and Messrs. Smith and
Murray (p. 301) are quite sure that he could not, but it is proverbially Il
-difficult matter to prove a negative; and the evidence in reality simply
amounts to this-that they did not see him look at the page, and do not
tbelieve he did. But the book WRB under the table, on the side
next to Mr. Eglinton, and even a momentary diversion of attention
-on the part of the witnesses might suffice to give the necessary oppor-
tunity. We may take it for granted that if Mr. Eglinton did take a
peep, he did not do 80 while the witnesses were looking straight at him.
The exact time during which the slate (with the book on it) WRB held,
apparently without result, is not noted, and it might well be that the
-extreme vigilance which the witnesses are 80 sure that they exercised,
.really began after the necessary information was in fact obtained.
An incident related to me by a gentleman who sat
for this same "book test " is rather suggestive. A page, line,
'and word were chosen after the usual elaborate manner. The book, a
1IDlall pamphlet, was laid on the slate, and the "spirits" were invited
to write down the chosen word. The reply was, "The page is not cut,"
'Which was found to be the case. This reply merits careful consideration.
The theory of the Spiritualists is that the book, though laid on the slate, is
never opened; and, obviously spirits, claiming to possess a clairvoyant
faculty, have no need to open a book in order to look at a given page.
The fact of the pages being uncut should, therefore, he quite immaterial
• Since writing the above, mv attention h811 been called to the report of
the Rul8ian Prof8lll101"8 (pp. 329-331), which WRS not before me in the fil"8t
in!Itance. Here, if the report of the witneH8es iR correct, Mr. Eglinton W811 flot
eogniMnt of the page or number demandecl. It is, however, to be remarkecl
that thill is merely the report of a. Ringle sitting, not confirmecl by repetition
of the experiment, and 811 I have alrea(ly "tated,even an expert in conjunng can-
1lOt fairly expect to detect a new trick on fil"8t exbibition.
I note by the way a. rather curious circumstance in connection "it·h this
TePOrt. The answer is produced between two Jlflpitl' II,delle HlateR, without
fni.mes, fischtly screwed together (with a piece of pencil between) at the diagonal
mmers with a pair of small br&88 thumb-screw". The pencil must therefore
have been jammed tightly between the two slateR, but an answer is neverthel_
procurecl. II The crumb of pencil on examina.tion W811 found to be worn at one
comu, and the lower surface of the up\'8r slate, pressed 811 it W811 upon the
pencil, 1m. lcitlunlt a mark of any dC8t:nptioll." Surely the obvious inference
III that the writing WIUI HOmeliow effectecl before the sla.teR were joined together,
and if !!O, the leamecl ProfeR80l"8 were a littl" hlUlty in their somewhat effwJive
... conclusion...
Digitized by Google
370 Journal of Society fo-r P8ychical .Re8ea/rcl,. [Aug., 1886.
to them. If, on the other hand, the word is read by the medium's own
eye, and written by the medium's own hand, it is obvious that the fact
of the page being uncut would present a very serious difficulty, and that
the above is just the answer that might be expected.
The failure to write down the number of Mr. Wedgwood's or Mr.
Bennett's watch, though the number of a railway ticket was revealed
without difficulty, is open to a similar observation j the latter feat
demanding much less personal dexterity than the former, though to
anyone possessing a genuine clairvoyant faculty the one should have
been as easy as the other.
To render this class of experiments scientifically valuable, the book
used should in the first place be either placed in a sealed envelope, or
encircled by cross ligatures of string or gummed paper, in such manner
as to exclude all possibility of a peep within. This cloM, the page. line,
and word should be selected. The best way to do this, to exclude all
possibility of trickery, is that each sitter should privately write down a
number at pleasure, the total of the numbers so written down being
then divided by the number of sitters in order to fix the page j the same
plan (with any variation that may suggest itself) being repeated in
order to decide on the line and word. The expedient of taking a.
number of bits of pencil, wa.x lights, or the like, though apparently
excluding the possibility of pre-arrangement, is capable of a good deal
of" management" in skilful hands.
I now pass to a class of cases of a still more startling cha.racter~
namely, the alleged passage of matter through matter. It is note-
worthy that in the only cases, in the present batch of report'l, in which
this is alleged to have taken place, the receptacle from which, and the
receptacle to which, the change is made, are in every case Hr.
Eglinton's own pl'Operty, which fact, from a conjurer's point of view~
is quite sufficient to deprive the incident of any" miraculous" character.
Mias Symons (p. 309) wishes coins removed from her own sealed box, but
the "power" is not adequate to do this. Mr. Wedgwood (p. 312) brings
his own slates, fastened together j but nothing can be done with
these. A card, however, disappears from Mr. Eglinton's own folding
slate, (locked, and with a slip of paper gummed across the opening).
and appears in Imother piece of apparatus, a box with glass
sides, prepared ostensibly for a different purpose. This celebrated
"folding-slate," which figures in so many accounts of seances
with Mr. Eglinton, is one of his most familiar "properties." On
the first occasion of my visiting him it was lying on the table, and
I have seen it probably on half·a-dozen subsequent occasions. I ha,'e
tn.ken it up and examined it (as I have no doubt nine out of ten
Digitized by Google
Aug.,l886.] Jou}''Ywl' Of Soci~ty 1m' Psycltieal lW!eU1'Clt. 371
sitters do), and I believe it (i.e., the slate I saw) to be a perfectly
honest, straightforward slate, innocent of any special mechanism 01""
preparation. But the freedom with which it is left (not to say placed)
in the way of inspection is, to the prestidigitatorial mind, a little-
suggestive. What if there be in Mr. Eglinton's possession a twin·
brother, not quite so honest, of this very honest slate; and what if the
very honest slate, of whose go.cxl faith the visitor ha.s assured himself
at half-a.-dozen visits, is on a given occasion replaced by the twin·,
brother, exactly like it in appearance, but having some secret speciality
designed to facilitate trickery 1 Suppose, for insFance, that the slate
used on the occasions spoken of by Miss Symons and Mr. Wedgwood,
were so adapted (a.s any conjuring trick·maker could readily adapt it),
to open at the hinges, /loS well a.s in the ordinary way. The card is.
placed therein, and the slates closec:l, a slip of paper being gummed
across the opening. This ensures that the slates shall not be
opened in the ordinary way, but does not affect the hinged side.
The pressure of a spring or some similar expedient may make the slates
open sufficiently to let the card drop into the performer's hand, whence
to.slip it into Ilo glass box with a sliding lid (it is not stated that this,
was sealed or secured ill any way) would scarcely present even a
nominal difficulty. The reproduction of Mr. Wedgwood's penknife
(embezzled by the "spirits" on Ilo childish pretext at a previous materinli·
aation seance) within the folding-slate, and the disappearance of a piece
of paper therefrom may be explainable in like manner.
In the ca.ses last mentioned the specially adapted folding slate (if
any) may have been introduced at the commencement of the sitting,
but in others, a.s, for instance, where a long message ha.s been producecl
professedly on the fold,ing slate, the slate first shown may have been ex-,
changed for another of similar appearance during the actual course of
the sitting. The fact of the slates being every now and then held under
the table, and the occasional dropping and picking up of a slate, a fact
mentionecl by many of the witnesses, would tend greatly to facilitate
such an exchange. The dropping of a slate is a perfectly natural
accident, and may frequently occur in the most honest and uninten-
tional way, but for this very reason it would be the more likely to be
made use of as a conjurer's artifice, to facilitate a desired "change."
There are some few incidents in this series of reports-a.s indeed in
many which I have read and heard-for which, as described, I can offer
no plausible explanation. The value of these cases will depend on,
the precise accuracy' of the witnesses' testimony. For instance, the
multiplication of two unknown figures by another number (a.s described
on p. 294) seems, on the assumption that Mr. Eglinton did not know
Digitized by Coogle
.372 Jo-Ul"lud of Society fo)' Psych-ical' &self/lOCI£. [Aug•• 1886.
what numbers had been written down, inexplicable on any natural
.pri,:\ciples. It is, however, noteworthy that Mr. Eglinton himseH
indicated the multiplier, and that the celebrated folding slate was
used. A good deal might turn, therefore, on the possibility of }lr. Eglin-
ton's knowing, or being able to discover, the numbers to be multi-
plied, and the narrator is not 0. very accurate witness. At the
outset of her report (p. 293) she says that she took to the seance afolJ..
ing slate of her own. Two lines later she speaks of "the slate," presum-
ably the same. Two lines later" tlhe slates having been cleaned, and a
chip of pencil put between two," the spirits are o.sked, "Will you write on
Mrs.--'s slate by-and-by 1" A lady who introduces so much confusion
into half-a-dozen lines of her narrative is hardly to be depended on as a
witness in a scientific matter. In the report of Miss Symons and
Mrs. L. (p. 308) they speak of an answer to a question, unknown
to Mr. Eglinton, being procured on his locked slate, without
the slate being "removed from the table or out of sight for
·a single instant. Mr. Eglinton merely rested one hand upon it."
If the ladies are correct in their account of the incident I can
·suggest no explanation which will meet the case. The account given
by Mr. Wedgwood of writing produced between two slates hermetically
attached together seems equally incapable of explanation, save that
it is noteworthy that an interval of some months appears to have
·elapsed between the first and second attempts. The slates seem to have
remained sealed up, for Mr. Wedgwood says that he took them "as
they were." It would be very desirable to know where and in what
.condition the slates were in the meantime, and whether there was any
possibility of their having been tampered with by any person. On the
other hand, Mr. Wedgwood's account of writing produced on a card in
·a. book, identified by a corner torn off it, looks very like a new
version of a. familiar conjuring trick, and it is possible that some
little circumstance may have been, in perfect good faith, omitted from
the respective accounts of the more startling experiences which would
·give them a. different complexion.*
Ha.ving thus examined the evidence from a prestidigitatorial point of
• As an instance of the pos8ibilityof the medium's now and then aeqniriDg
a little nseful knowledge withont the cognisance of the spectators, I may ieferto
Mr. Harold Murray's testimony at p. 29i. A twofold question is written. Mr.
Murray says: II Mr. Eglinton asked alou!l, after two to three minutes, 'Will
you kindly give us an answer to this question!' Directly afterwards he dropper!
the "late on the floor; he picked it up and reploeed it under flap of table. I
watched him narrowly, but could not see him look at the m--.ge. Howe\'er,
.after complaining of the weight of the slate, he repeated his request for an
·answer, but mooifi8l1 his woids, 'Will you kindly give ns an answer to time
-fluution8"" And the questions were answered accordingly.
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1886.] JQUMWl Of Society for Psycki.cal Resecwc/t. 373.
l-iew, and indicated to the best of my ability certain items in which the·
effect deposed to may reasonably be supposed to have been produced by
trick, I feel that I ought not to shirk the question whether it is likely
that the wlwk of the facts alleged by this numerous body of witnesses
are explainable on that hypothesis. Candidly speaking, I entertain a.
very grave doubt on the subject. I think there is a great deal to
suggest that trickery is now and then employed (pro 1'8 nata, as the
doctors say). I find many circumstances which would tend to favour
its employment, and some for which it is difficult to account on any
other hypothesis. On the other hand, I do not believe the cleverest
conjurer could, under the same conditions, use trickery in the
wholesale way necessary to produce all these phenomena, without
exposing himself to perpetual risk of detection. Many of the wit-
nesses have fulfilled the condition which I have indicated as the most
important towards the discovery of trickery. They have sat repeatedly,
at short intervals, with their attention turned particularly in the direc-
tion of the expected phenomenon, and the effects sought have been
again and again repeated. No conjuring trick, however well disguised,
will stand frequent repetition before the same spectators, and if
conjuring were the only explanation of the slate-writing phenomena, I
should certainly have expected that their secret would long since have
become public property.
I regret exceedingly not to have been enabled to form a distinct per-
sonal conviction on the subject, but my experience has been unfortunate.
I have had in all twelve sittings (the last ten as an expert on behalf
of the Society for Psychical Research) with Mr. Eglinton. No one could
possibly have commenced an investigation with a more open mind;
indeed, I had heard so many startling accounts from persons on whose
assurance in other matters I should not hesitate to rely, that I was quite
prepared for the occurrence of remarkable phenomena, and disposed to
investigate them in the most impartial spirit. I sat, in every case save
the first, with gentlemen in whose presence Spiritualistic manifesta-
tions had previously occurred with freedom. We had a series of
extremely pleasant samces, conducted on the most amicable footing,
but the spirits obstinately declined to manifest. I cannot charge
myself with the failure. I made no difficulties, dictated no embarrassing'
conditions. We used Mr. Eglinton's own slates, held under the
table in his ordinary manner, and on each occasion only asked for the
writing of a Bingk WO'I'd, named by myself on the ·spur of the moment.
The first nine sittings were absolutely blank. At the tenth (an after-
noon sitting), just as the daylight was failing, a single word was
written-how, I do not pretend to say. I had not detected Mr.
Eglinton in any suspicious movem~. He had shortly before dropped
Digitized by Google
374 Jou)'}Ud of Society fo·)· Pilychicr.d Resea,'Cl". [Aug., 1886.
the slate, but I do not attach any significance to the fact in this
instance, and save for the peculiar position of the word on the slate
(to which I have already adverted), there.was nothing to suggesttrickery,
but from the circumstance of the imperfect light the manifestation was
of no value in a scientific sense. Having thus made a beginning, I
hoped for further manifestations, but was determined that any future
success should be of a character to constitute ren.lly reliable evidence,
and accordingly at our two next sittings, I used my own slate, clamped
to the table as I have described. Again a single word was asked for,
but no result was obtained, and I at last gave up the investigation in
despair. I may truthfully claim that I was not an unfriendly inquirer,
and it would therefore seem that my conjuring knowledge was, in some
shape or other, the bar to my obtaining any satisfactory evidence.
Meanwhile, however, two gentlemen of my acquaintance, Dr.
Herschell and Mr. Sachs, both skilled amateur conjurers, paid Il
visit to M.r. Eglinton. He was not aware, to the best of my belief,
of their prestidigitatorial knowledge, and they were therefore the more
favourably placed for detecting trickery, if any were used. Writing
was repeatedly produced, and no trickery was detected by either of
the witnesses, who came away completely staggered, and subsequent
visits have, I am informed, confirmed them in the belief that at
any rate the greater part of the manifestations they saw were not pro-
duced by any trick, but were really the work of some unknown force.
I may here anticipate a pOBBible question. Why, it may fairly be
asked, if there are such things as genuine Spiritualistic manifestations,
should any medium take the trouble, or run the risk, of using trickery 1
A little reflection will show, however, that the two things are by no
means incompatible. It is admitted, indeed asserted, by Spiritualists
themselves that the phenomena are irregular and uncertain. On the
other hand, the reputation and emoluments of a professional medium
depend upon the comparative certainty andregularity with which they
are produced under his mediumship. There must therefore be a constant
temptation, when genuine phenomena run short (and the sitters are
not too vigilant), to supplement them by a few conjuring tricks. Itis
not safe to assume, be it remembered, that what has happened once
bappens always. Both sides are too apt to fall into tbis error. The sceptic,
bearing that a particular medium has been detected in trickery, is
confirmed in the belief that all Spiritualistic manifestations are neces·
sarily produced by dishonest means. The average believer, on the
other hand, having once witnessed what he regards as unmistakably
genuine manifestations, is thenceforth prepared to accept all similar
phenomena as genuine. The logic is bad in both cases. The fact that
A. was caught yesterday injlofl/'anle delicto d.:es not prove that B. is
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1886.] JQU~'nal of &ciety fo), Psyc/t-icul Resea,'Clt. 375
an impostor, nor is it e,"en conclusive proof that A.'s manifestation of
to-day is produced by a trick. The fact that C. has produced writing
without human intervention to-day does not at all preclude his employing
a little hanky-panky to-morrow. It is quite possible for one half of the
alleged phenomena of Spiritualism to be genuine, and for the other
half to be produced by the grossest possible trickery. I was much
struck by an observation made some time ago in my presence by a.
well-known and leading Spiritualist, to the effect that, in his belief,
there WIUJ not a single professional medium before the public who would
not use trickery when occasion offered. Such a declara.tion, made by
a gentleman of high culture and trained &cuteness, who a.fter much patient
investigation is still fully convinced of the genuineness of a great part
~f the Spiritualistic phenomena, carries a two-fold lesson to inquirers :-
in the first place, to bring a fair and judicial spirit to their task-not
claiming apriori to decide what is possible and what is not,-and in
the second to accept nothing as lWOO/ &aye the most absolute and con·
.elusive evidence, fenced about by such conditions as to render fraud
not merely improbable, but impossible.
AYGELO J. LEWIS.
P.S.--Since the above paper was originally drafted, my attention
has been called to the reports of Mr. Gurney and Professor Lodge
(pp. 290-292), an additional report by Mrs. Brietzcke (pp. 294, 295),
the report of Mr. Murray (p. 296), that of Messrs. Smith and Templeton
(pp. 297-304), and that of the Russian Professors (pp. 329-331), which
were not included in the "proof"series originally submitted to me. I have
revised the paper so as, where necessary, to touch upon these cases. I
ha\"e also had the opportunity of reading in the JuurncU for June the con-
clusions of Mrs. Sidgwick in relation to the matter. I cordially agree
with her as to the extreme difficulty of continuous observation, and the
desirability of adopting such conditions as shall tend to obviate the
necessity for unremitting personal watchfulness; but it will be seen that
I do not go so far as Mrs. Sidgwick in asserting that the whole of the
manifestations are attributable to conjuring. I have inclicated certain
points which seem to me to suggest the employment of trickery, and
bearing these in mind, and using the safeguards I have suggested, it
:should be the easier for investigators to prevent or detect its use.
If I have put a wrong interpretation upon innocent circumstances,
the fact that I have shown them capable of such interpretation
should put the honest Spiritualist on his mettle to avoid, by the pre-
cautions indicated, even the possibility of such misconstruction for the
futul'E'.-A. J. L.
Digitized by Google
376 JotU'lwl of Sooiety fOl' Psycltical Resecu'C/t. [Aug., 1886.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
«(}mtiflt/~. )
[The Likrarlf Committee teill be glad to receire well autAenticattd et>idetace of
phenomena belotlgitl9 to (my of the follotoill9 00-, apecimetUl of tchicA (Jf't
from time to time rWl'rded in thil JotJMtwL :
L. PhantaJl1l1ll of the Lit'itl9.
G. PhantUll11la of the Dead.
M. Hyp",otiBm, Mumeri&m, and Clainoyallce.
P. Monition 0.11(1 Pl·emcmition.
S. MiBcellaneotlll phelwmel~ of the killd IJCJmetimes ducribed (U;
" SpirittwliBtic."
PerllQnal experiellce of "8e1l1ll}rtJ lwLlucinatiotUl" of any 80rl will az.o.
be ,Ilelcotne.
The Committee print 811eA CtUU as primd facie .teem to tAeln likely to tJwour
light on the II'lIbjecta intlelltigated lItJ the &Ciety, or to _ as material fft,.
profitable criticiBm and di8Ctlllllitm.
Co-mmunicatiotlll inteluled for the LiteraTlJ Committee slwlIld be addfUlfll
to Edmtlnd G-ItTll.efJ, EIlCJ.., 26, Montpelier Squ<u·e, Ll}lIdoll, S. W. ; or, to-
F,.e{leric W. H. Myers, EIlCJ.., Leckhampton HQfIlle, Cambr~e.]
[It is impossible to decide in which clau-L. or G.-the following CU&
should be placed, 88 we do not know the time relation between the per·
cipient's experience and the death. For convenience the caae is numbeJed
G.-478.]
From Mrs. Clark, 9, South View, Forest Hall, Newcaatle-on·Tyne.
Jamlary 6th, 1880.
I BOnd you a short account, describing what I experienced at the time
of the apparition of my friend, wbo WIIS a young gentleman much attached too
myself, and who would willingly (had I loved bim well enough) have
made me hiB wife. I becanle engaged to be married, and did not see my
friend (Mr. Akhurst) for some months, until within a week of my marriage
(June, 1878), when in the presence of my husband he wished me every
happineu, and regretted he had not been able to win me.
Time paaBed on. I had been married about two years and had never ICen
Mr. Akhurst, when one day my husband told me he (Mr. Akhurst) W8II in
Newcaatle and W88 coming to supperand wlISgoing to stay the night. Wben
my husband and he were talklllg, he said my husband had been the more
fortunate of the two, but he added if anytlllng happened my husband he
could leave his money to who he liked and hiB widow to him, and he would
be quite content. I mention this to show he W88 still interested in me.
Three months pR8B8d and baby W88 born. When it was about a week old,
very early one morning I was feeding her, when I felt a cold waft of air
through the room and a feeling 88 though BOme one touched my shoulder; my
hair seemed to bristle all over my head and I shudderel. Raising my erea
to the door (which faced me), I saw Akhurst standing in hiB shirt and trousers
looking at me, when be Beemed to p88B through the door. In the morning I
mentioned it to my husband. I did not hear of Mr. Akhurst's death for some
weeks after, when I found it corresponded with that of the apparition, and
Digitized by Google
A••,I8116.) JQlumd 0/ $ociety /m' PHyehical Re8eC(1'clt. 377
.though my father knew of it before, he thought in my weak 8tate of health
it were better I abould not be told.
He WIllI fowld lying on the bed with biB shirt and troUBCrs on just as he
bad thrown himaelf down after taking a aleeping draught.
I myself am quite convinced that Mr.:Akhurst'. thought. had been 10
concentrated upon me, before the draught proved fatal, that hia .pirit visited
me on its way to that glorious land where it shall dwell in the presence of
Him Who laid "Come unto Me all ye that labour and are heavy laden and I
will give you reat."
To me the memory of Mr. Akhurst will alway. be aa of a dear brother,
greatly eeteemcd and deeply regretted.
EwLY CLARK.
Muy 13th, 1885.
My hUiband will certify aa to my mentioning to him Beeing the apparition
before I heard of Mr. Akhurst'8 death, but I am BOrry I cannot tell you where
it happened, nor the exact date of the death, but I remember when we heard
about it my hUiband and I traced it to about the time of my •• vision."
I will uk my hUibaud to write you a few linea, and I am lOrry I cannot
give the time and place of death ; it ia nearly five years ago, and on account
of my not knowing peraonally any of biB fanilly I run not in a position to
ucertain.
J,dy 23rd, 1885.
I never experienced anything of the kind before. I think Mr. Akhurst'.
dea.th happened IOmewhere in Yorkshire. What make8 me think the time
correaponded with hia death, waa, my asking how long ago it waa from my
hearing of hia death, and the actual occurrence ; and then knowing the time
of my little girl'. birth, I C&nle to the conclUlion it waa about the aame time.
I think thia ia all the infomlation I can give you. I shall aak my hU8band
to Bend you a few linCB to-morrow.
From Edward Clark, Solicitor, County Chan.bers, Newcaatle-on-Tyne,
J1Ily24th, 1885.
At the reqUCBt of my wife, Mr.. Clark, of 9, South View, Foreat Hall,
I beg to inform you of myknowledgeof the lupposedapparitionof Mr. Akhurst.
Shortly after my wife had been confined of my BCCond daughter, about the
end of &ptember, 1880, my wife one morning informed me abe had
ICen Akhurst about one o'clock that morning. I of course told her it was
nonaenae, but abe persiated, and laid he appeared to her with only hia troUBers
and a Ihirt on, and the remark abe made waa that he waa just dressed aa Ihe
had seen him in the Corsican Brothu 9 (he waa an actor). She alao deacribt!d
her feelings at the time. I tried to persuade her it waa a drean., but
ahe inaiBted that it waa an apparition.
AI near aa I can remember, about six months after, I met a mutual friend
of Akhurst'l and my own, and in conversation I inquired after Akhurst. He
lAid, "Do,,' you know he ia dead1" I laid, " No, when did he die1" He laid,
.. I don know the exoct date, but it waa about six months ago " ; and further
informed me that he died about one o'clock in the morning in the dreB8 aa
my wife deacribcd him, from an overdoae of chloml. I have endeavoured to
~A
378 Jou1'nal of Socuty for Psycltical Raea,'CI", [Aur., 1888.
ace my friend to find out the place (Bradford, I think), but he is now in
America. His name is J 000 Brown, and he is the IOn of the leader writer to
the Chro"icle here. If I meet him again I will try to get accurate particulan
and forward them to you.
(Signed) E. CLAllL
.Atcgtut 2I..t, 1886.
. . . . My wife hu, I find, no reaaon to think ahe has been mistakenu
to the time when she supposed ahe saw W. J. Akhurat, as the date is fixed
by the birth of my second little girl, which took place in September, 1880.
* * * * *
Era Almallrul for 1881. Obituary for 1880, p. 93.
"Akhurat, Walter,James, Actor, aged 24, July 12th."
Tho Era newspaper of July 18th, 1880, gives an account of the inquelt.
Mr. H. W. Akhurat gave evidence to the efl"ect that he and his decelllld
brother went to the chemist's on Saturday (i.e. 10th), and procured a aleepiDg
draught. Deceased complained of pains in his body, and of feeling lonely.
Tho next day, Sunday, he only got up to have his bed made; Monday he
died. W. H. Cope, Surgeon, attributed death to sufl"ocation caused by heart
diaeaae. The verdict returned was "Death from natural ClLuaea."
0--479. Transitional.
The following, obtained through the kindneaa of Mias Porter, is from a
lady who doca not wish her name mentioned.
.AtlgU't StA, 1885.
On the 2nd November, 1876, I arrived at my brother's hoUie. My
journey had been a long one-from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 1811.t up late tal.kiDgto
Illy sister-in-law, and about 12o'clock went to Illy room. There I spent lOme
time arranging my belongings. I found I had left IOmething I wanted down
in the hall, and feeling reatleaa, I suppose, thought I must get it then, and
not wait until the monling. So downstairs I went. The hoUle is a largI!
ono ; tho pa.llll&ges long. My room WAIl in the third storey, and I had to go
to the entrance hall. It took Ille lOme time. On returning and enteringthe
corridor in which my room was, I saw,standing beyotld my doonray, a figure.
It looked misty, aa if, had thore been a light behind it, I ahould have Hell
through the mist. This misty figure was the likeneu of a friend
of oura who I knew to have been on a voyage to Australia.
I stood and looked at "It." I put my hand over my eY08 and looked again.
Still it was there. Then it seemed to pIUI8 away, how I cannot lIy. I went
on and into my room. I said to mYlOlf, My brain was tired out; and I
hurried to bed 80 ILl to get reat. ,
Next day I told my sister-in-law what I had seen. We laughed about my
ghost.
I was awa.y from my home three weeks. On my return, my mother
ahowed me the account in a newspaper of our poor friend's body having
been caat on shore at OrfoMneaa and buried as unknown castaway the very
time that I saw this figure. W0 were the only friendl he had in England.
but why I saw him I cannot tell. Itdid no good to anyone. One thing I
~ow.d to1110u, I hatl not been thinking or lpeakiJJg of him.
Digitized by Google
Aug., l888.] J0'U1'fUll oj ~ty jm' Psychical Research. 379
The fonowing u from the Pariah Clerk of Orford, near Wickham,
Sufl'olk.
JamUl") 23rd, 1886.
Sir,-In reply to your inquiries I lend you a copy of the head-stone :-
.. In Memory of Fredrick Gluyaa Le Maistre, 2nd Officer of the barque
'Gauntlet' of London, native of Jeney Channel lalande, aged 24 yeara and
6 montha, "hOlle body W88 found near Orfordneae Harbour, October the
22nd, 18'16, hill death having been occaaioned by falling from on board the
above named v8llel in the DoWDa on the 27th of September of the same
year."
J AM1I8 Lnm.
[I have seen the percipient (January 21st, 1886), and she tenl me Ihe has
never had any other hallucination whatever. She is a aenlible and practical
peIIOn.-E. G.]
CORRESPONDENCE.
J1d!l 25th, 1886.
To the Editor oj thll JOURNAL 01' THB BOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL REsEARCH.
Sm.-In the monthly report of December last, there is a letter by
myself, deacribing lOme private paychography. Thill morning, on opening the
alate, which baa been shut up in a drawer, padlocked, and the key in my
pocket always, I found tho word "no" ill very bold outline, 88 though
written in one Itroke, thUII-
I had aaked, in writing, that lOme word or words should be written, and
in reply, I get the lame word repeated, twice the size, showing great increase
of power. The word being a series of loops is easy to write. In thill, 88 in
other mattera, I am contented, so long 88 I convince myself of the truth of
occult slate-writing.-I am, Sir, youra truly,
GEORGE RAYLEIGH VICARS.
[The experiment, aa it stande, is quite inconclUllive. The first hypothesis
that suggests itself is that Mr. Vicars himself did the writing, while in a state
of somnambulism. To exclude this hypothesis in future experiments, it
would be well if he committed the key to IOmeone elso, whom he can trust,
and who doea not reside in the lame house. He should, of courae, be sure
that he baa no second key which would fit the lock. Other possibilities
might perhaps be sufficiently guarded against by sealing the slate up in a
large onvelope, secretly marked, the seal being one of which he knows the
colour and remarks the exact outline, 110 88 to be able to detect an
imitation. The packet should be looked at every day.-'-E».]
Digitized by Google
380 JOtf/~'nal 0/ &cuty /0'1' PsycMcal Be8earch. [Aug.,I886
Po the Bditor of 1M JOURNAL OF THB 80cmTY FOB PsYCHICAL RaBAacB.*
SIR,-May 1 be permi~ted to reply in your Journal to some remarb of
Mrs. Sidgwick's about my reports on alate·writing seances1 In regard to
the worda, .. and the samo slate was placed as before," after my request for
he figure 4, &0., 1 beg to state when 1 /lay .. in a moment," 1 mea'i in a
moment-that is to say, the slate tD(U hardly in- poeUion before the ,mtittg
tOCU heard. 1 am fully aware the same llate was UIed, for 1 had almoet all
the writing done on p'tfJH.1Ie on the three new umleaned (I think wrongly
reported by you as cleatled t) slates that Eglinton had fwt Imldled tiU I Irtld
tMm with him.
All 1 wanted these pariU:lIlar slates used, they were placed and replaced.
•• Cat" and 4. ProfOl8Or Barrett had been refUled, o.nd these were two of
the worda 1 asked and received. 1 state bare, unvarnished facta, and.y
what 1 mean, so truat nothing that 1 do tlot mean will be put into my
mouth. 1 am accustomed to watch and Itudy nature, o.nd claim lOund
common lIonae. If 1 said "I watohed Amrebre change form, o.nd that in one
cue, so many times in a minute," 1 should not be 8ttppoaed to mean five
minutes or any other apace of time, but 1M minute 1 said; so I:go back to the
old cue i-if I eay "a moment" or "instantly," I mean it o.nd stick to it.-
Yours obediently,
H. K. BuBTZ<:u.
Po tIre Bditor of 1M JOURNAL OF THE SocIETY FOR PsycmCAL REsBABcJL
72, Sterndale Road, West Kenaington Park, W•
.AtI~1It 4th, 1886.
SIR,-Since sending on my letter to the JOfIf'tial, 1 have IOen the friend
who went to Mr.Eglinton's with me,-and told her what Mrs. Sidgwickhadsaid
regarding my worda, "instantly" and in ., a moment," and she aaid mOlt
emphatieaUlI exactly as 1 have stated, that .. we hardly held the alateII before
we heard the writing," and we botA have suggested words to be written after
the slate WRB held by us, and therefore E. could not poI6iblll trick UB.-I am,
Sir, yours obediently,
H. K. BUBTZC&L
Po tAe EtlUuI' of the JOURNAL OF THE SocrETY FOR PsYCHlCA.L Rl!sJWl,CJl.
Cambridge, ..4.''9'let, 1886.
Sm,-In a letter printed in the Jmlf'lial for July, Mr. Templeton ex·
p1'OllllC8 surprise that a believer in telepathy should feel aJ11 difficulty in
accepting Mr. Eglinton's phenomena as genuine. 1 do not suppose that Hr.
Templeton can mean that anyone taking one step away from lCientifie
• Hi'll, Brietzcke'8 original letter td U8 \Vall destroyed in the fire which bumt the
premiBeB of the National Preas Agency; and the COPT given above is taken from
Lig1&4 (Auguat 7th, 18116, p. 361~ to the Editor of whIch HI'IJ. Brietzcke l18d _t
it, with an accompanying note, ID which ahe IlaY8: .. I now 1I6nd you a!mOllt ex~y
the letser I have IleDt to the Society for Psychical Reeearcb."
t The account, 811 printed in the Joumal for June, h8II been agaiD CODlJJared with
the origiDal MS. The words which deaoribed the IIIMea as II having been cleaned "~
Mrs. Brietzeke'a.-ED, JOfIrnaL ,
Digitized by Google
Aug., 1886.] JO'lW1Utl 0'1 Society lor P8yckieal Resecwclt. 381
ortbodoxy-accepting 88 a truth anything not genemlly admitted by acientific
men-a logically bound to believe everything elae. And yet it seemB clear
that if infonnation can be 'conveyed from one mind to another independently
of the sell8e8,that in itself affords no presumption that movements of material
objects can be efl"ected independently of the known forceB of nature. And
further, even were the pouibility of BUch movements proved, it would· Btill, in
my opinion, be reasonable to regard Mr. Eglinton'B performances as conjuring.
The argument for regarding them as conjuring depends on four pro-
poaitiOJlB. These are (1) that in 1876 and in 1882 he produced BpuriouB
"phenomena," and there is no reason to ,BUPpose that he has ceased to
do BO; (2) that all the evidence for the genuineneBB of his .. phenomena "
depends on continuous observation and accurate recollection; (3) that
the numerous attempts made to obtain evidence independent of these
have invariably failed; (4) that tho only clear line that can be drawn
between .. phenomena" which may poBBibly be due to conjuring and
thoee which certainly cannot, is defined by Baying that the latter are inde-
pendent of continuity of observation and accuracy of recollection. The
argument put shortly comes to this :-Mr. Eglinton is capable of trickery;
ho cannot produce phenomena which are clearly not due to trickery; the
natural inference is that the phenomena which he doeB produce are due to
trickery.
My proposition (4) is disputed by Mr. M8880Y, but any further diacuBBion
of the Bubject by me is better postponed till the paper whioh I read in May
and Mr. MaueY'B paper are before the world. Both are, I understand, to
appear in the forthcoming number of the P.rocudi1/{/1I. I will only Bay now
that the idea of the importance of obtaining evidence independent of
oontinuous observation and accurate recollection is not a new one invented
o.pTO]XJI of Mr. Eglinton; for ever since I began the investigation of
Spiritualism twelve yeanngo, I have BOught to exclude the poBBibility of con-
juring by evidence of this kind, and many othen have done the Barne.
What is new in my position is that I am convinced by the accumulation of
evidence of various kinds which we now have about Mr. Eglinton, that he
has had a fair trial and that there iB no hope of obtaining evidence through
him thuB excluding conjuring.
What Mr. Templeton disputes is my propoBition (2), for he considen that
in his own experiences the nocOBBity for continuous observation (.J: BUPpose he
would hardly Bay also accurate recollection) was dispensed with. I Bhall not
attempt to explain Mr. Templeton'B experiences. If I did, my explanation
would probably be wrong-at least the Bmall BUCceBB of my attempts to explain
avowed conjuring trickB, which depended, 88 I Buppose Mr. Templeton'B
experience. did, on a use of accidental and unthought-of opportuniti08, has
not been encouraging. BesicleB, I am quite ready to admit, as I llaid in June,
that BOme bunc1jide and careful a.ccounts·6f seances-like BOme equn.lly bond
fide and careful lICCOuntB of conjuring trickB-make them Beem inexplicable....
Indeed, I IIhould expect thill to hallpen lIimply because, BO far as the writer'"
obaerved or remembered the circumBtances, they were inexplicable. It cannot
be expected that he should n.lways betray to a critic a loophole, the Bigni-
ficance of which he himself failed to detect, nor that loopholes which he
Digitized by Google
382 jouk"lwi of &ciety /0)' Psychical &search. [Aug., I88&.
does betray Ihould alwaya be thOle aotually made uae of. But. however
much Mr. Templeton may believe that hill experiencel were inex-
plicable, not only 1\1 he rememben them, but 1\1 they really happened,
he would not, I think, maintain that they were independent of
continuity of oblervation unleu I had failed to make clear what I meant by
continuoUi oblervation. For, in hill own opinion, the evidence dependl,
among other things, on hill having obaerved (1 do not limit obaervation to the
sense of light) that the lame Ilatellay on the table and were not written on
from the time he put the qUe8tion between them till he read the &DIWer.
That he conducted, or intended to conduct, part of thill obaervation by keep-
ing hill own and hill friend'i hands on the alate does not affect the qUe8tionof
ita needing to be continuoul.
Perhapi 1 Ihould make clearer what I mean by evidence inde-
pendent of continuity of obaervation or accuracy of recollection, if
1 de8Cribed an experiment which would aecure such independence. In such
an experiment, the skill of the investigator ill mainly shown in ita selection
and preparation, and the most important part of the obaervation hal to be
done before and after the .eance. The conditions to be fulfilled in an experi-
ment of thiII kind in .. psychography" are: (1) the IUrface to be written on
mOlt be Mcertained to be blank before the .eance; (2) thiII surface
mOlt be inacce8sible except by undoing fl\ltenings which it ill impolllible
to suppose the medium could undo without subsequent detection, how-
ever little he WI\I watched; (3) the pOIIibility must be excluded
that the medium can prepare a similar surface similarly l-endered
inaooeuible, to substitute for the inve8tigator's. NumeroUi unsuc:ceI8ful
experimenta of thill kind are mentioned in the Jo"nuU for June,
and were enumerated by me on page 333; but the details of the precautiODI
taken to aecure the abovo three conditions are not given in any detail, pre-
sumably becauae, the experimenta having failed, the precautions were of no
general interelt. The example I will take is different from any of these, and it
selected on account of ita simplicity, which mal"s it easy to de8Cribe. I may
say that the credit of inventing it ill not due to myself. Let a glMl test-tube
or flask be hermetically sealed, with paper and pencil inside it. Let its weight
and ita form, or ita weight and ita volume be recorded. Ita form might"
sufficiently recorded by means of a mould,or by noting certain measurentenbl j
ita volume can be Mcertained of course by weighing the water it diIIp1acea.
Let oompetent and trustworthy witne88e8 depose before the .eance that thole
things are oorrectly recorded, and that the paper within ill not written on.
It may be taken 1\1 certain that the medium, even if left alone with a blow-
pipe, could neither opm. and clOBe this ve8sel without altering it, nor
produce a faosimile 1\1 to both weight and form, or both weightand volume.
If the experiment succeeds, witnel8e8 should verify the identity of the glUII
vc8801, and attest that the paper hM now writing on it. The evidence thus
obtained for " psychography" would be IJractically independent of the in-
vestigator's attention during tlle .eance ; and probably no one, however much
he believes in the potIIIibility of oontinuoUi observation, will deny that such
evidence would be more complete and satisfactory than Mr. Templeton'., or
any otller given in the JOllnUil for June.
Digitized by Google
Aug.,1886.) Journal 0/ Society /0'1' Psychical }USBlWClt. 383
The queetion then has to be anawered, Why does Mr. Eglinton never
obtain pltenomena under conditiona such as theae 1 The anawer that at onco
suggests itaelf, espeoiaJ.ly in the cue of a person of Mr. Eglinton's known
antecedents, is that oonditiona such as these abeolutely exclude the pouibility
of oonjuring, while the leaa stringent conditiona do not.
What other reason can there be 7 The better kind of experiments have
been too often tried for the failure to be attributed to chance, and it will
scarcely be denied that they have been tried in !;go great variety for the
fl\ilure to be attributed to physical causes interfering with the occult agency.
Had, fo"r instance, only the glasa-covered alate experiment been tried (see
Journal for June, p. 324), IUch an interfering physical cause might have been
surmised in the glaaa, though it would have been difficult for those who
believe in the genuineneaa of the occult paaaage of platinum into henneti.
callyaealed glaaa tubes, said to have occurred in Profeaaor Hare's laboratory,
to maintain this view. But if glaaa is the cause of failure, why does not
writing occur in the cue of alates covered with wire gauze 1 And 80 we might
proceed through the various experiments that have been tried, finding it
more and more difficult. to eacape tho conclusion that the failure common
to these experiments has no conmlon physical cause unleaa it be that
the conditiol1ll were specially well adapted to the exclusion of con·
juring. The failure cannot be attributed to the investigators, for tho
aame investigators have been very aucceaaful in obtaining phenomena under
inferior conditiol1ll. Turning to purely psychological explanatioDB, it has, I
believe, been suggested, with reference either to Mr. Eglinton or to another
medium, that the suspicion evinced in using such tests affects the medium
injuriously and interferes with the phenomena. But the better teats ahow no
more suspicion than the inferior ones, and the inferior teats-thoae with Mr.
Eglinton's own locked alate for il1lltance-do not interfere withthe phenomena.
Nor can we suppose that Mr. Eglinton's inlngination is affected by the
diftlculties to be overcome, and that this has a bad effect on his mediumahip,
for how can he imagine it to be more difficult to write in a folding-alate that
is sealed than in one not fastened at all, if neither is to be opened during the
proceaa 1 A SpiritUalistic explanation has been suggested, namely, that the
mdependent intelligences with whom we have to deal will not produce the
phenomena under the beat conditiol1ll. I do not know of any grounds for
entertaiIiing this hypothesis, but of course it cannot be disproved. If, how-
ever, independent willa and intelligences govern the phenomena and desire
to prevent our obtaining proof of their occult nature, it is clearly uaeleaa to
continue the investigation. It is of no use fighting against beings 80
obviously masters of the situation.
In the meanwhile, until some plausible explanation is offered of Mr.
Eglinton'a invariable failure to exhibit phenomena under conditions indepen-
dent of continuous observation and accurate recollection, I must continue to
regard him as a mere conjurer, though doubtleaa a very clever one in his own
line.-I am, air, &c.,.
ELBANOR MILDlI.BD SIDOWICK.
DiQitizedbyGoogle ~-
384 Jotl/rnal of Sooiety jO'l' Psycltiool Raecwcll.. [Aug.,l8Il6.
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
The price at which this book (2 vola. octavo) will be issued is one
guinea. One copy will be supplied to every present Member of the
Society who has paid his SUbscription for the current year, for 5s. 3d. and
the cost of carriage or postage; and to every present Associate who has
paid his subscription for the current year, for lOs. 6d. and the cost of
carriage or postage. Members and Associates who desire copies are
requested to send their names to the Assistant Secretary, at 14, Dean's
Yard, S.W. The issue of the work will now be delayed for &
couple of months, as, on the very eve of publication, most of the sheeti
and blocks were destroyed in the recent fire at the premises of the.
National Press Agency.
The issue of Part X. of the Proceeding, has been delayed in con-
sequence of the fire. It is, however, nearly ready for publication.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
PM follolc''''g adtlitio", haN bee" made during tAe lalt ttco tIIDt.tAa.
GREGORY (Wm., M.D., F.R.S.E.) Animal Magnetism; or Mesmerism
and ita Phenomena. (3rd Edition). A Secolld ('.opt) ......Lotuknl, 1884§
Life and Teachings of the Lord J eaua Christ. Arranged as a Continuous
Narrative............................................................... London, 188Gf
Tnwum (Edwanl P., M.A., Ph.D., M.D.) Handbook of Anthropology
. NnD York, N.D.t
C4H4GNKT (Alphonse) TMrapeutique du Magnetiame et du Somnambu-
llame ........................................................................Pan., 1883
CBEVILL4BD (A.) Etudea Ex~rimentalea aur certains PMnolWlnea· •
Nemaun et solution rationnelle du Problilme apirito (2nd Edition)
Par", 18'11
Duvuu (A.) Notes Bibliographiquea pour aervir al'hiatoire du Mag-
netiamo Animal .........................................................Pan., 1869
EDARD (Profeaaeur G.) Vitaliallle Curatif par tea Appareila Electro-
Magnetiquea ..••.•.....••.........•..•••................•••••..•..•.•..•Pari., 1880·
MESuET (Dr. Enleat) De l'Automatiamo ..............................Paria, 18'i4
PBRRONNET (Dr. Claude) Force Paychique et Suggeation Mentale P"ria, 1886~
FUNZOLINI (Fernando) Del Somnambuliamo: Studio Medico-Forenae
lotto all'Academia di Udine ne119 Nov., 1880 ............... Udille, 1882
§ Presented by Mrs. F. A. Moulton. t Presen~ by the Author.
• Presented by Mme. de Monier. ::: Presented by the Aqthor.
Digitized by Google
