{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kelly_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Kelly A NDE 3234","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kelly A NDE 3234  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kelly A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1174  Kelly A NDE  3234  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had reoccurring strep throat for months. The throat culture results came back and I not only needed some heavy duty antibiotics, but a mandatory penicillin shot. In the doctor's office, I leaned over the end of the table to receive the shot in my hip. The nurse asked if I was okay afterwards, I said I was fine. I was not, that's the last thing I remember.

During the time I passed out, I had a dream that I was in another life. I was walking across the street in a downtown city, like New York, or Chicago, as there were cabs, busy streets and high buildings. At the same time, it was like I was watching myself in a movie, and seeing things with my own eyes as well. I looked like another girl; I had a life, a family. I lived a few blocks away. I was going home. I was much older and living in an apartment. I was crossing the street mid-block, the wind made my hair get in my eyes; I brushed away the hair from my face and proceeded to cross the street carrying a couple bags. It was silent; I don't remember any smells or sounds, just a visual, with a complete past. (Which was the weird part.)

I woke up on my back on the doctor's table. My clothes were soaked (even my jeans from the waist to the knees were wet), as my hair was wet, and I was cold. For the first few minutes, I had no idea who I was. I still felt like I was in this other life, the last thing I remembered - I was crossing the street, and now I'm in this doctor's office. End.

I don't know if that was a near death experience or not. I must've had one heck of a reaction if it soaked my hair and clothes to darn near wringing them out. I have never had a dream to even come close to that. There was so much 'past' to it. I was only crossing the street, but in my mind, I was - I was this lady, who lived a few blocks away with a family, and friends, a job, etc. Very weird to me, I've always remembered it.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1978

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Allergic reaction    Other passed out from penicillin shot for strep throat..  I passed out from a penicillin shot, should've been a routine event.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I don't quite understand the question.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I don't quite understand the question.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't remember hearing any sounds or noises.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      None - other than feeling just okay. I was on my way home from shopping. Nothing out of the ordinary.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       None. I was just living my life (and it wasn't me).

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I don't remember when and where and who. But I remember thinking that whomever I told, didn't believe me. They looked at me weird.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I don't remember. Confused pops in my mind. Fascinating, pops in my mind.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was probably real.     A lot of things in life are unexplained. I could've made it up in my mind, just a weird dream enhanced by my medical reaction (trauma) to the shot.

I believe we inherit memories, like we do brown eyes, from our ancestors (a theory of mine). Maybe it sparked a past memory from a relative.

Beyond that, I can't explain it. It was so real. I'm forty-two years old, I've never had a dream like that before or since. I had a 'past'. I've never had a 'past' in dreams before.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Thank you for reading.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kelly_a_nde.html