{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kelly_c_ndes.html","mytitle":"Kelly C NDEs 6611","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kelly C NDEs 6611  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kelly C NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3274 Kelly C NDEs 6611  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					The first experience was in 1995. I had an allergic reaction to Sulfa.  After taking it, I went to the bathroom. I fell over while sitting on the toilet. I screamed, ‘Someone help me, I can't get up!’ My mom came running and my nephew got me up from the toilet and I remember walking out to the living room, really out of it. I heard, ‘Lay her down here.’ My nephew said, ‘Should we call 911?’ My dad said, ‘No, just wait, she will be okay.’ All I remember is a paramedic saying, ‘Kelly, stay with us!’ over and over again. Then I saw this tunnel with a bright light and I walked through it and on the other side, I saw my late grandmother and God, all in white, glowing. My grandmother turned to God and said, ‘She isn't ready to come in here.’ God said something, and I woke up in the emergency room. I turned to my dad, who was sitting beside my mom on my right, and I said to him, ‘Dad, Grandma says she is okay, and to stop worrying about her, she is fine.’ Dad was in tears. I went home the same day, which baffled doctors and nurses. I said, ‘I'm fine!’ and I left the emergency room. I said, ‘I'm hungry,’ so we went to McDonald's and I got a double cheeseburger, fries, and a milkshake. I was fine after that. When I got home, I asked, ‘What happened to me?’ My mom said, ‘You were dead for forty-five minutes and that nurse was yelling at me about you.’ They had to use the paddles on me, but nothing worked; that's what my Mom said. I don't remember anything after the paramedic was saying, ‘Kelly, stay with us.’  

The second experience was in 1998. I took the Sulfa drug, but I don't remember where that was.  I also had a very high fever. I remember going to the emergency room in the car. Next, I saw the tunnel that turned into a bright light and I walked through it. I saw my mom's best friend's late son and he turned to me and said, ‘Tell my mom, I'm fine and stop worrying about us.’ I woke up in the emergency room, turned, told Marge that Mike is fine, and to stop worrying about them. Marge was in tears. My mom said I was dead almost thirty-eight minutes.  

The third experience was in 1999. I took Biaxan (drug) in Los Angeles. All I remember is the tunnel, bright light, and God all in white and my best friend who passed away in 1987. She said, ‘I'm fine.’ and I woke up. She had died from a drive-by shooting that happened in Long Beach. She was holding her then thirteen-month old daughter, who died eighteen years later from a drug overdose.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1995, 1998, 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Allergic reaction. Drug or medication overdose.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I died three times from taking prescriptions.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I woke up.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything prior to when I went in the tunnel or the bright light. My hearing was fine when I came out of it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Three times.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My late grandmother, my mom's best friend's late son, and my late friend.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Three times.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt fine.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I don't understand this question. My late grandmother told God that I wasn't ready to come in there and I woke up.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Catholic, Baptist, Wicca, Methodist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I don't understand this question.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Catholic, Wicca, Methodist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I found out I have the touched spirits. I see dead people and spirits. I had a dream about my baby brother's death before anyone. It included an angel who said it must be done tonight. That was September 25, 2011. A week later, my baby brother passed away. This happened with four other members of my family, too. My Dad, who died January 10, 2011, Oreo, who died June 15, 2011, my mom, who died December 18, 2011, and my uncle, who died January 10, 2013.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Someone laughed in my television.  It was an evil laugh.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was born on a Indian res. in Arizona

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     There is a heaven!!

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     same as what I said above Yes

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     God all in white & glowing and no feet

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is a God and there is a true Heaven, life after death

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Believe in God

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I saw Hank Williams and he wants to give a message to his son, but his son doesn't believe in ghosts. I have tried to give him this message from his dad. I said to his dad, 'He doesn't like me, he hates me.' Hank Williams said, ‘He doesn't hate you, it makes me sad.’  And there were other things he said.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I have a new boyfriend, Gary. We are dating now and my best friend of sixteen years left me and called me ‘crazy’ and a ‘liar’ and had her phone number disconnected. Then the harassing and death threats started after Mother's Day, 2012 until December 15, 2012. I was involved in a hit and run with a van that came out of nowhere and I saw a man on the side where I fell. He wasn't there before and I had three witnesses who saw the accident.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have the touched spirit world. I see dead people from long ago, including children and adults who went missing that want to be found. I have posted on BriansPredictions.com. Search on Google, I'm under screen name ‘Craftslady2008’.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My dad believed and my mom's friend believed. But not my boyfriend. I don't think he believes in ghosts.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I don't understand this question.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       There could be fewer questions.  They seem to be all the same thing.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kelly_c_ndes.html