{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kelly_nde.html","mytitle":"Kelly NDE 80","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kelly NDE 80  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Kelly NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						426  Kelly NDE  80  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 Although it was 5 years ago, I remember it like it was yesterday. I had this feeling like something or someone was dragging me down - trying to pull me under the hospital bed.  It was very dark in the room. There was a window that overlooked the city outside, but when I tried to look at it everything was black.


Then I heard a noise like a swooping sound like a large pair of wings. I still had that feeling of being sucked down and it was overwhelming. I saw myself in the bed I was about 12 inches over my body.  I heard a very low tone. I looked down to my feet and saw a being there.  I felt negative feelings surrounding me. The being looked at me, with its red eyes and large wings. The being opened his wings and the wings engulfed the entire room.


It said, "We need you and the powers that you have."


I saw myself shaking my head and telling it that I had too much to live for. I had two young children to raise and that no power in this world or any other for that matter would take me from my children. At that point, the feeling of being sucked down got stronger and I kept trying to fight it. It felt like a very long time that I fought, but the next thing I remember is a nurse standing at my bed trying to wake me and yelling my name.


This took place three nights in a row.  Every night I saw this large being.  Every night I fought him with all the strength I had at the time. It was like the being knew I was weak and that was why he came to me to see if I could fight.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May 5, 1995, May 6, 1995, May 7, 1995

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessSurgery-relatedHeart attack  The vagal nerve in my brain was tampered with during surgery causing my heart rate to drop to dangerous levels when I fell into a deep sleep  Life threatening event, but not clinical death The first night my heart stopped in my sleep the following two my heart rate was extremely low at the time of the incidentMy vagal nerve in my brain was malfunctioning and this cause my heart to stop when I was in a deep sleep

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The first night I looked down on my body. I was only about a foot over it

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I believe the first night I was unconscious and the second and third nights my heart rate had dropped to dangerously low levels

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I knew where I was was.  This was not anything I have ever experienced prior to this.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The being was pure evil it was negative. I did not know the being and it communicated to me it wanted me for my power and strength

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Fear and strength

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     After the experience, I  knew I had some kind of power something that was very special that power helped me get through the  healing of my medical problems and also make me change my way of thinking about religion.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew I returned to my body when I felt the nurse pulling at my arm yelling my name and saying "Can you hear me?"

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   I was born and raise in a strict Irish roman catholic family

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Wiccan High Priestess

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I went from being married and going to church every Sunday at a Roman Catholic church. To completely changing my beliefs. I am now a Wiccan High Priestess

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I feel I have much greater power within myself.  I know who and what I am. I have the power to feel changes around me. I can look at auras on people and see what they are before I even speak with them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The fear and guilt was bad for a few months and then the best part was realizing that I did have a gift and I should start to use it . Since then I never regretted the experience

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My children,husband, my mother and 2 close friends.I believe they were influenced by my experience and I tell them death is something they should not fear but they should embrace because it makes us stronger

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   At times when I am sick and feeling ill, I sometimes feel that feeling of sucking me in coming from the ground. I that point I lay back and think of all the positive things that I do have and the feeling seems to leave.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      The experience changed my life and the lives of those around me for the better. Even thought it was a negative one the changes it made have been and continue to be very powerful.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kelly_nde.html