{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kelly_q_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kelly Q Probable NDE 6951","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kelly Q Probable NDE 6951  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kelly Q Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3492 Kelly Q Probable NDE 6951  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I felt my heart stop, I was instantly outside my body. My consciousness it seems, was in a different dimension. It seems I was made of particles, something that may be described better with quantum physics.  I was entirely outside of space and time where everything was simultaneous. I was made privy to a record including everything that has ever happened and everything that ever will happen in the future. 

I found myself in a playground of sorts. I perceived it to be in the future. It was a huge indoor playground with very high ceilings: very advanced children around the ages of 3 and 5.  We were playing on electric-powered tricycles with buttons for forward and reverse. They were riding on little tracks with curves, hills, and valleys for them to go around, up and down. I no longer felt pleasure, pain, hot, or cold. All physical sensations were gone my consciousness was no longer limited by its biological housing we call the brain. 

There was definitely communication between myself and a power greater than me. After asking for forgiveness, I realized I was not ready to be judged and reborn, which I believe was possible. I begged and pleaded to return to this life and my body so that I may continue living now. 

At this point, I coughed the respirator out, and I awoke in a specialty hospital.  I had been unconscious 3 days. It only seemed like hours had passed. I came back frustrated that I could not bring back the knowledge that I was aware of during my experience. Very soon, I realized I did not come back empty handed I returned with gifts. I remembered things that I learned in school that I did not remember before. I have a newfound compassion for every living soul and understanding for people. I also gained the power of discernment of spirits. As I look in people’s eyes, I can see their intentions. I see their love, their hate, their pain, and their desires. I hear these things in their voices, as well. This can be uncomfortable and awkward at times; if someone is lying to me, I will tell them to turn away from me and walk away. 

They say Kelly why are you being so rude to me and I tell them I'm not. I asked them, ‘why are you lying to me?’ People don't get it; they just don't or cannot understand. Every living thing to me is so precious now. I was biology major in college so I already logged life but now I cherish and value every living thing so much. It’s like Walt Whitman said ‘to me every hour of the day and night is an unspeakably perfect miracle’.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Drug or medication overdose.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The hospital restrained me on my back and tried to induce a medical coma; I gagged on the respirator and threw up into my lungs. I was paralyzed and could not move. I suffocated. I felt my heart slow down, come to a stop and with the last beat BAM! It happened.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Probably many things that I can't recall; I only recall the children in the futuristic playground.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Like I said before, the word ‘time’ is irrelevant but at the moment that I was made privy to the records of past and present events, I was desperately paying attention and grasping to hold on to every bit of knowledge that I could. All great Construction inventions, works of art, music of humanity that ever was or will be was right there at my fingertips, but when I came back to my body it all slipped through my fingers like so many grains of sand. To answer your question to the best of my ability, I was definitely very conscious at all times of what was on going. I think I explained the best I could before. The word I'm looking for is it was all quite unexplainable, unlimited consciousness.  I was everywhere, similar to particles. It's like our brain is a flesh-and-blood organ that our consciousness works through. But it limits what we are truly capable of outside of the flash of our consciousness, and is so much more unlimited and free.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything was simultaneous, there was no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It’s not like seeing through eyes, but it's like having a million eyes at one time, except you don't have to get up close to something to see the intricate detail of its workings: everything simultaneous.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sense of hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It is hard to say, I know I experienced a multitude of things that I could not remember. These things just can't be brought back or expressed in the flesh.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     People in the future, the children in the playground and some people there were working on the playground.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It is possible, so many things that are incomprehensible to my brain.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Unfamiliar and strange also apply; it was not like a planet almost like I was spread across the universe.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A tremendous sense of wonder, full of wonder, wonderful love, peace and being part of God: we all are one when we hurt someone else we hurt ourselves and God.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Yes an overwhelming sense of understanding of everything and everyone around me. I look into people's eyes and I feel their soul.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     The only thing I recall vividly was the playground of the future; the children playing were highly advanced and people were there working.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was not ready to be judged and reborn. I was not satisfied with the life that I had been living and where it had gotten me. I wanted to go back and do better, I expressed this and the next thing I know I was coughing a respirator out and waking up 3 days later.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I was raised Christian but through my life I have come to believe lots of things from many different religions around the world ,Hinduism ,Buddhism some new age.but since my experience I have gained a whole new understanding of God religion and life.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I just have a deeper understanding of what God, spirituality is.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I am a pilgrim in search of the truth I believe we are here 2 gain knowledge through experienceand this is what we were created for

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     nothing I ever believed or dreamed of could ever come close to comparing to what I experienced

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     When I came back into my flesh and reviewed my life and the way I was living I was very disappointed in myself and have tried to do better.  I don't sleep as much as I used too. I had to stop taking medication after my experience because I kept having nightmares of being restrained and catheterized and a trachea tube being forced down my throat.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   My spirit was full of questions and I felt I was receiving many answers but there were no voices per-se, more like feelings.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     yes this experience we affirmed my believe in reincarnation I definitely feel or felt that I had existed before in another lifetime and that if I were to have stayed on or if I go again I would be reborn. I actually believe that is what Jesus Christ meant

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     yes everything is connected to everything it still is it was like being plugged into everything everything is interconnected

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists┬

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     yes I definitely felt the presence of a power much greater than myself but also a power that I was a part of as well as every other being we are like sensory organs of what we call God. God gains knowledge and experience through us

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Like I said before I was aware of many things: past, present, and future, but only the playground in the future, could I remember vividly. I have many vague fleeting memories the work of human beings past, present, and future: construction, inventions, and art.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     yes mainly the understanding that we are to be good to one another love our neighbour as we would have them love us and to learn all that we can learn and experience all that we can

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     definitely I wish I could bring you there with me I would actually volunteer to go and come back again if it were possible I know it is possible though it would be dangerous to try on my own but there was an incredible wealth of knowledge. I feel that I c

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     yes all is full of love love every blade of grass love every ray of light

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     Moderate changes in my life. I have an overwhelming sense of empathy; understanding of others, even a discernment of spirits. I feel the pain of others. I relate more with what they are going through.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I have a warm understanding of people: all my relations, friends, lovers and enemies.  I love them all as fellow human beings.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   All words like: up, down, left, and right just don't quite explain the workings of a different dimension entirely: no time, no space just a whole new type of perception.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I know that what I do remember very accurate there's just so much more that I experience that I know I did but I can't recall.. Sometimes day today I get little bit in pieces of my memory of the experience back

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I don't know if I would call it psychic but I can definitely tell a person's intentions by looking into their eyes.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I immediately told the nurses, my doctors, my family and friends. They were mostly very interested. Especially the doctor, he is trying to gather deferred life after death experiences.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard stories of people experiencing life after death.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was very real, I will never forget it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     No changes in my beliefs of the reality of my experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I would not say that it is reproduced but from time to time I remember bits and pieces that I did not recall before.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       One thing that I will mention is that when I left my body what I experienced was like home; it was strangely familiar like I had been there before. In a way, I can't wait to do it again!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kelly_q_probable_nde.html