{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kelly_p_fde.html","mytitle":"Kelly P FDE 22157","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kelly P FDE 22157  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kelly P FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			2027 Kelly P FDE 22157  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a Friday night and it was dark. I was driving alone on a stretch of single lane highway. I was about fifteen minutes out of town on a two hour drive. It was snowing and the wind was heavy and there was blowing snow across the entire highway. There was heavy traffic. Frequently, large semi-trucks would pass by and there was practically bumper to bumper traffic. I noticed the amount of heavy traffic going both ways on the highway. There were several cars in front of me, and several directly behind me, and constant traffic coming on the other side of the highway. 

The first thing I saw before the ‘incident’ was a larger than normal bright semi-truck trailer coming towards me on its own side of the highway. I will never forget it. Then it started. I felt like I lost control of the car as everything went pitch black. There was an incredible massive intense spinning like I have never experienced. It went on for quite some time. I remember saying repeatedly, 'I'm dead, I'm dead, I'm dead.' I couldn't do anything, I couldn't see anything, I couldn't feel anything other than a dark blackish grey tunnel which I felt, and, weirdly, saw myself going through at a rapid speed.  It was unbelievable. It went on for a while as I remember saying again the same thing over and over at least a dozen times. I'm dead. I'm dead I'm dead. I couldn't see and I don't know if I had closed my eyes or what. I don't think so as it didn't feel like my eyes were closed. I just know there was incredible darkness, massive spinning, and the almost helpless feeling like I couldn't do anything, and the tunnel. It was an obvious tunnel and I was traveling down it so incredibly fast. I could see the tunnel but I was strangely somewhat calm. I said I was dead as that is what I thought, as I couldn't do anything else. 

There was so much traffic resulting in many lights from the oncoming vehicles passing by not to mention the cars in front of me and behind me. Those were gone. There was no noise at all. Just a massive spinning and then rapid tunnel travel at massive intense speed.  I was terrified at the speed more than what was going to happen to me. There was no ‘life passing before my eyes’. No light. Just intense speed, spinning, tunnel, and knowing that it could possibly be over. I didn't want it to be. 

How could I have lost control of the car with that much traffic and not caused distress to any of the other vehicles? This is the biggest question I had and still have to this day. 

After a period of time, I opened my eyes.  I was in a ditch about ten meters away staring straight at the busy highway I was just on. What I immediately saw was bumper to bumper traffic both ways. No one else was in distress.  Nothing at all. Like nothing had ever happened. Just me in a snow filled ditch.  I was only a few feet away from a gravel roadway separating two snow filled ditches, meaning I came awfully close to hitting the dirt/concrete and well. Who knows what would have happened then. The snow broke my fall it had appeared. And my car didn't have a scratch. The snow came up towards the handle of my door but I seemed to get out without a problem. Not a scratch on my car or me. Again, I looked in front of me at the lights of the huge amount of traffic going both ways on the highway.  How could I have avoided a massive car pileup/accident?   

I felt an incredible sense of relief once I opened my eyes. After a few minutes, I saw one car stopped at the side of the highway going the other direction. I sat there for a few seconds staring at the highway in disbelief and at the car that had pulled over. I opened the door and got out.  I walked through the huge snow bank/ditch towards the car. I don't know why but I got in the car without a thought or looking inside or anything. When I got in the car there was a man with long brown hair smiling and a women in the passenger side. They were chuckling and said, ‘you should have seen the look on your face’. I found that a little bit odd as wouldn't someone normally say are you ok, or how are you doing? After an event like that? They then said they were going through town and would take me back home without even asking me where I lived. At the time I didn't think a whole lot about it but years later, to be exact about four years ago, I have started to analyze the situation more closely.

At the time, which was approximately, twelve years ago, I just thought I had avoided a major car accident/pile up.  But now I am starting to rethink what had happened to me. The tow truck had one heck of a time getting my car out. I was so packed into the ditch. Not a scratch, dent, nothing. 

The tunnel itself was dark, quiet, tremendously fast, and the sides of the tunnel were rough, kind of jagged sharp lines throughout it. There was no light other than me opening my eyes directly in front of the highway when the ordeal was over. 

Most people will say that I simply lost control of the car and went into the ditch but I am pretty sure at this point that something else happened to me and it wasn't my time yet.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    This is a hard question.  I would say no but then how did I see the tunnel I was speeding through?

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       No alcohol, drugs, or anything like that. I was completely alert and conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed like a long time that I was spinning/traveling. I can't be sure how long.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No noise, nothing. Complete silence.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     But I did and still do recognize the tunnel I sped through.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Immediately I thought I was approaching death.  I was strangely calm but thought that death was looming.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     I wish I had.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I just knew I didn't want to die.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     It has taken several years, approximately ten years. I was never religious before. I have become much more spiritual now.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have felt since then an ‘intuition’ that was not previously there.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best? That is tough. Just that I have opened up my mind tremendously and spiritually. I didn't believe in anything before.  Now I do. Worst? The brief fear of death.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not much. They didn't really believe that it was much more than being lucky.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just that I don't think it was luck.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kelly_p_fde.html