{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9769","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n73_oct_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N73 October 1890","mylang":"de"}
No. LXXIII.-'V,L. IV. OcToBER, 11100.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates
Meetings of the Council ••
'I'hought-transference in Italy .. ..
Casee Received by the Literary Committee
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
HONORARY ASiOCIATE.
WINGFIELD, MRS" 84, Cadogan-place, S,W.
MEMBER.
SUIS, F. llANLEY, F.R.C.S., 12, Hertford-street, Mayfair, W.
ASSOCIATES.
AMERY, W. C., 168, Edmund-street, Birmingham.
ARNOTT, T. DAVIDSON, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
BoscQ DE BEAUMONT, G. DU, Airel (Manche), France.
BURTON, MRS., 1, Iddesleigh Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
PAGE
" 801
.. 302
.. 303
.. 30.
.. 315
CORT VAN DER LINDEN, PROFESSOR P. W. A., Groningen. Holland.
CREWS, RICIIARD G., Glenholme, Mount Park, Ealing, W.
GODFREY, MRS.,%Col. C. W. Godfrey, Bombay Staff Corps, Poona, India.
HARGREAVES, MISS, 69, Alexandra-road, Southport.
HILL, HENRY, The Park, Nottingham.
LILLY, WILLIAM SAMUEL, J.P., 27, Michael's-grove, S.W.
LYllINGTON, VISCOUNTESS, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch, Hants.
MALMESBURY, SUSAN, COUNTESS OF, 25, Sloane-gardens, S.W.
MURRAY, OSWALD, 38, Parliament Hill-road, Hampstead, N.W.
NEWSOM, JOHN, 99, Fenchurch-street, E.C.
RIDDIFORD, MRS. W. H., Barnwood Cottage, near Gloucester.
SHEAVYN, ROBEUT F., Long-street, Atherstone,
WICKHAM, MRS" 7, Comeragh-road, \Vest Kensington, W.
YOUNGMAN, MISS, Hillside, St. Margaret's, Ipswich.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
CHENOWETH, MRS. VAN D., 113, Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, U.S.A.
COLE, MRS. HELEN B., 324, Westchester Park, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Digitized by Google
302 Jot~rn(~l of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1800.
DROWN, T. PICKERING, 351, Congress-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
MCCABE, W. GORDON, Petersburg, Virginia, U.S.A.
McHENRY, MRS. J. HOWARD, Pikesville, Baltimore Co., Maryland.
MCLANE, MRS. W. L, 222, West 23rd-street, New York, U.S.A.
MONCRIEFF, MRS. HELEN, London, Ontario, Canada.
PENFIELD, DR. SOPHIA, Danbury, Conn., U.S.A.
PRESIDENT OF THE WEDNESDAY MORNING CLUB, Pittsfield, Mass., U.S.A.
STEEDMAN, G. W., M.D., 2,803, Pine-street, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
STREET, MISS I. M., A.M., 78, East Washington-street, Ann Arbor, Mich.
THORNE, C. H., Brownsville, Texas, U.S.A.
TURNER, MISS MARY J., 11, Faxon-avenue, Quiney, Mass., U.S.A.
WEITBRECHT, MRS. M. B., 244, Farrington-av., St. Paul, Min., U.S.A.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on the 23rd of July for the
purpose of electing some new Members. The Council also met, as
previously arranged, on the 3rd of October. Mr. William Crookes was
in the chair on the first occasion, and the President on the second.
The following Members were also present at one or both of the Meet-
ings :-The Rev. A. T. Fryer, Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. Thos.
Barkworth, Walter Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore, H. Arthur
Smith, R. Pearsall Smith, and H. E. Wingfield.
At the Meeting on the 23rd of July, the Earl of Crawford and
Balcarres was elected a Member of the Council under Rule 17. Mrs.
Wingfield, 84, Cadogan-place, S.W., was also elected as an Hon.
Associate.
At the two Meetings one new Member and eighteen new Associates,
whose names and addresses are given above, were elected. The election
of fourteen new Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
A vote of thanks to the donors of some books, presents to the
Library, was passed.
It was agreed that General Meetings be held at the Westminster
Town Hall on Friday, October the 31st, and on Friday, December 5th;
the Meeting on the 31st of October to be in the afternoon at 4: o'clock
-tea and coffee being provided afterwards-and the meeting on the
5th of December to be in the evening at 8.30.
It was also agreed that the Annual Business Meeting of Members
of the Society be held on Friday, January 30th, 1891, at 3 p.m., anu
that a General Meeting be held at 4 p.m. on the same afternoon.
Several other matters of business having been disposed of, the
Council agreed to meet, at 3 p.m., on Friday, the 31st inst., at West-
minster Town Hall, before the General l\leeting.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1890.J Journal of Society for Psychical Rese<lrclt. 303
THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE IN ITALY.
Professor Lombroso, of Turin, and Dr. G. Pagliani, of Bologna,
both write in the last number of the Arc/Livio di Psicltiatria concerning
what they believe to be cases of thought-transference. Professor
Lowbroso has experimented with a man called Pickman, a Frenchman,
who gives public exhibitions similar to those of Onofroff at the West-
minster Aquarium some months ago. By experiments in his own
In.boratory, Professor Lombroso convinced himself that suggestion
through the ordinary channels of sense was excluded, and that genuine
thought-transference took place. The experiments consisted, as far as we
understand, in picking out from a pack the playing-card or the number
thought of by a person present. 'Vithout contact, and with eyes
and ears bandaged, Pickman succeeded 9 times in 10 with playing-
card!! and 6 or ; times in 10 with numbers distributed on twenty
similar pieces of card. He was less successful with eyes unbandaged,
and he could not succeed at all with the numbers unless he touched
the card with his hands or with a rod. It is not expressly stated
whether the agent or any other person to whom the card thought of
w~ known, watched the cards as Pickman's selection proceeded. If
this were so it would, of course, be necessary to take precautions
against his perceiving any slight movements of such perso~.g.,
through shaking of his seat or through ail'-curl'ents, &c.-and also
against any incompleteness in the closing of ears amI eyes by bandages.
I mention this because the fact that it was necessary fOl' Pickman
to touch the cards suggests that he somehow or other, consciously or
unconsciously, received some indication, on touching the one thought
of, that it wus right; for on this hypothesis the necessity of touching
is ea.sily explained, while it is not .easy to see how touching the cards
can help genuine thought-trunsference. We lllwe, however, no reason
1.0 suppose thut Professor Lombl'oso did not take all needful pre-
cautions.
Pickman ulso succeeded as agent. His wife guessed the number
or card given to him to think of 9 times in 10. Here there might
of course have been collusion, but Professor Lombroso also tried the
experiment with a young medical man in pIneo of the wife, and this
apparently unexceptionable percipient was right 6 times in I::? guesses,
-3 proportion not likely to be due to chanl'e.
Dr. Pagliani's experiments were malIc some yeal's ago with ,L woman
suffering f!'Om attacks of spont;;.neous catalepsy and somnambulism. The
experiments are not described with any detail, but in the somnambul-
istic state she appears to have been able to repeat words thought of by
her questioner, PHIl when the;.p werp in a language unknown to her,
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1890.
such as Latin or French. If a phrase were thought of in a foreign
language, she would not repeat it, but would give its equivalent in
Italian. She answered like an educated woman, though in her normal
state she could only speak the Venetian dialect and could hardly read.
Contact or some sort of special mechanical connection between agent
and percipient was thought to be necessary, but Dr. Pagliani found an
iron wire some six metres long, long rods, or threads of any kind
sufficient.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 847. Collective. Visual.
We printed in the last Journal several cases of collective hallucina-
tions. Since then we have received a batch of cases collected by the
American Branch of the Society, of which the following collective
case is one. The account was sent to the Society by Mr. D. M.
Frederiksen, of Chicago, and is a translation of a letter from relatives
of his in Denmark.
Copenhagen, December 6th, 1888.
My parents cannot give the date more exactly than November, 1879 or
1880. They were walking together arm-in-arm on a road along the garden
from which you can see the greater part of this, and happened both to look
straight into the garden and saw there "grandmother" (really mother's
aunt married to mother's uncle) walking on the path alongside the houso
in the opposite direction to that in which my parents were walking. They
saw her quite distinctly in her daily grey gown and white cap. When they
reached the entrance to the house, instead of entering they quite involun-
tarily turned into the garden to the place where they had seen grandmother.
When they came there and she was not there, my mother asked father if he
had not seen grandmother, to which he replied, "Yes," and they both
looked for her through the garden. You ask if there is a back door to the
house. To be sure there is, but the possibility that they should have mis-
taken another person for grandmother is entirely out of the question, as they
saw her so distinctly. And that she should have entered through this door
is also impossible, as she, when my parents came in and asked her where she
had been, said that she had been lying on the sofa resting, and thus probably
had neither been entirely asleep nor 'quite awake. It is true I have forgotten
to tell how the apparition vanished. My parents saw it as long as they could
overlook the walk on which it was moving, but to enter the garden you have
to turn a corner of the house by which the walk is hidden from view, and
when they came round it was not there.
You want the signatures of three persons. I suppose the third you mean
must be grandmother's, but she has been dead these last three years.
(Signed) HULMAR HEIN.
P.S. (from the percipients).-The most remarkable thing was, however,
that both my wife and I, when we saw grandmother, had a feeling that it
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 305
was not right, and, therefore, without mentioning it we both turned into the
garden instead of entering the house, and when we found the garden empty
exclaimed, "Did you see her 1" These were the first words we spoke about
it to each other, and both had, therefore, seen the same with the same feel-
ing that what we saw was not a reality. What you want this story for I do
not know, but as you are interellted in it, you have it here.
(Signed) A. HEIN.
L. 848 AI pn Visual and Auditory.
LAURAHEIN
(nee JENSEN).
This case, from A. D. Howard, M.D., is again an American one.
His account appeared in the Reli!Jio-Pltil08opltical Journal for August
3rd,1889.
Sturgis, Michigan.
In the year 1867 I was employed by the GO"ernment, and located at Fort
Smith, Arkansas, and during the months of July, August, and September I
wa.'! a member of the Board of Registration, which called me to the different
precincts throughout the county, and while engaged in busineSB I did not
return for some three or four weeks. There being no post offices in that
country at that time, only in the large places, I had received no mail, nor
written any letters to anyone during the time we were out. On my return
to Fort Smith I found quite a number of letters from the different depart-
ments of business that I was labouring for, that needed immediate attention,
and among the rest were letters from my wife, whom I had been in the habit
of writing to every week until this expedition in the country. Suffice it to
say I returned on Saturday afternoon, and it took me until two o'clock a.m.
to answer my mail matter, and as the mail went out on Sunday morning I
felt it must all be attended to that night. After answering all the official
letters I wrote to my wife, who at that time was in Michigan. I retired for
rest, which I very much felt the need of. Sunday morning I was called
upon to aSBist a coloured preacher in establishing a Sunday-schaul, which he
claimed he could not do without my assistance. I not only promised to help
him, but to do all in my power to aid in that direction. I laboured all the
forenoon in behalf of the cause, and returned to the hotel, ate my dinner,
and then planned to give myself a good rest. I went to my room for that
purpose, in the second story. It was large and airy, extending across the
whole width of the building, and the only acceSB was by going up a flight of
stairs that was outside of the main building in the corridor, aud the door to
my room was situated at the head of the stairs. I went to my room, as I
have said, for the purpose of rest. I turned the key in the lock, and lay
down on the bed with my back towards the door. I had not been there 10
minutes when I heard someone coming upstairs with a light step, and I
wondered who it could be. I had expected several of my friends would
call as soon as they knew I had returned, and I was too tired to see anyone.
I took this course to get rested. While this idea was in my mind that I
needed rest, I heard the door open, or seem to open, and I heard footsteps
Digitized by Google
306 Journal of Society for Psyckicctl Research. [Oct., 1890.
coming towards the bed. I turned over so as to look in that direction, and
there stood my wife. I was a little excited, as it was 80 unexpected. I
immediately got up and reached for a chair that stood near, and whilst doing
80 I said, "Why, Libbie, when did you come 1 You look so tired j you must
be-you have had 300 miles of staging." She spoke, and said, "Yes, I am
a little weary." I stepped forward with the chair, and was about to as~ her
to be seated when, to my surprise, she was not there. I stepped to the door
and found it was locked. Not being accustomed to such apparitions, I felt
sure that she had passed from the mortal form. As soon as I could compose
myself, I sat down and wrote her what I saw, describing tile dress she had
on, also the collar on l;1er neck, together with a ring she had on her finger,
all of which I had never seen before. On receiving an answer, which was as
soon I\H possible, my wife said, "On the day you speak of I dressed myself
with the dress and collar you saw in your vision, also the ring, which you
have described as perfectly I\H you could have done if it were in your hand.
I felt tired, and went to my room about 11 o'Qlock, and immediately fell
asleep, and slept soundly for three hours."
In a letter to Mr. Hodgson, Dr. Howard says :-
The letters relating to the matter were kept for several years by my
wife, but by accident were destroyed.
The following is Mrs. Howard's account :-
Sturgis, Michigan, Februa1'Y 20th, 1890.
I am still living and corrobomte the statement of nly husband, given in
the Religio.PhiloBophical JOIo'nal for August 3rd, 1889.
It had been three weeks 01' more since I had received any intelligence
from him, he being ,'el'!! prompt in writing once or twice a week.
At that time it WI1.8 no uncommon oceUlTence for 1\ Western man to be
shot down in the street, I\ncl I very naturally wall overly anxious to hear
from him, and would not have been surprised I\t any moment to hear of his
like fate. That morning I WI\H weary and thought I would lie down and rest
a few moments. It was about, or a few minutes past, 11 o'clock. I
immediately fell asleep, and slept 1t1lCO'1l.SCio1.l8ly for three hours, as it was
three o'clock when I awakened, and was very much surprised to find it so
late, and I had slept so long, for it seemed to me a half hom' had no more
than passed away from the time I laid down till I awoke.
My dress was one he had never seen before j also the ring on my finger,
and the collar I had on, which he accurately described in his letter to me.
Mr. Hodgson had an interview with Dr. and Mrs. Howard on
April 7th, 1890, and thought them both excellent witnesses. He
writes:-
Dr. Howard infonns me that he thinks on four other occasions during his
life he has seen the "double" of friends of his. No death happened in
connection with any of the incidents. He satisfied himself of this point,
but he made no other inquiries. He never ascertained whether any sleep,
or trance state, slight accident, &c., coincided with his vision.
He says that he had been lying on his bed about three minutes, that he
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1890.] Jo-urnal.ol Society lur Psychical Research. 307
had no time to get to sleep, although he had worked hard all the forenoon,
when he heard the door open, and 88.W his wife. As he proceeded to hand
her the chair, he had his eyes fixed upon her, and he was still looking at her
when she suddenly disappeared.
He went to the door and found it locked.
The figure had a peculiar gold ring with a garnet stone, as well as a dress
and collar, which he had not seen.
Mrs. Howard was living in Sturgis. There was no post-office within 18
miles of where Dr. Howard was staying.
Mrs.Howard explained that she had obtained the ring and the dress by
trading for them.
She 88.id that although she had been troubled somewhat about her hus-
band before she lay down for rest, she afterwards felt perfectly comfortable
about him, although she had no recollection of anything during her sleep.
She had a feeling afterwards that all was right.
In connection with this experience, it may be well to mention that
Mm. :ij:oward (as well as Dr. Howard) has seen apparitions, of which
sRe has sent us an account (B G 41 and B P 28). She narrates that,
as a child of 5, she saw a lovely figure of a woman floating in the air;
and later she' saw her deceased father standing by her bed and giving
her a long message of a consolatory kind much needed by her at the
time. She has also had premonitory dreams.
L. 849 Ad pn Borderland.
The following case of a child apparently seeing her father at the
moment of his death is sent to us by Dr. H. Kingston, who has
ascertained that t.he death took place on August 13th, 1883:-
Mrs. R. writes me from E. with regard to a lady whom I had met at her
house.
"Mrs. M.'s husband, Captain M., R.N., was my cousin; he was for a
short time Governor of the general prison at P., and there he died. I was
staying with them at the time. He died of consumption; he was out in his
chair the last day of his life and was carried to his room as usual.. In the
evening his wife was told the end was near. She asked me to come with her,
but as she had the nurse, the doctor, and the head warder with her in the
room, I 88.t outside. Fearing the little girl of five, the only child, might
wake, I went beside her. She was fast asleep. About the middle of the
night she suddenly woke with a cry, 88.t up, stretching out her arms, 88.ying,
, Oh, papa !' Simultaneously the cry from the wife in the other room told
that the spirit had passed away."
In a later letter Mrs. R. writes, in answer to inquiries :-
I do not know if the child had noticed anything particular before going
to sleep. I should think not, because, owing to her father's long illness and
frequent confinement to bed, it was not !\ striJcing cir~umstance ~f ~h.er4il W!\II
a stir. -
Digitized by Google
308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1890.
The interval between the child's cry and the mother's would be only that
of one cry followed by another. The feeling I had was strong that the child
was wakened, crying out, "Oh, papa," and at once followed by the mother's
cry.
G. 195. Transitional.
The following account of an apparition two days after the death of
the person seen was written down by Mr. Myers from the verbal
account of the percipient, Miss J., and corrected and signed by her:-
August 4th, 1890.
On the evening of Saturday, April 26th, 1890, I was engaged with my
sister and other friends in giving an amateur performance of the Antigone,
at the Westminster Town Hall.
A passage led down to several dressing-rooms used by the ladies who
were taking part in the representation, and nowhere else. None of the
public had any business down this passage; although a friend came to the
door of the dressing-room once to speak to somo of us.
I was passing from one dressing-room to another, a few steps further
along the passage, just before going on to the stage, when I saw in tho
passage, leaning against the door-post of the dressing-room which I left, 1\
Mr. H., whom I had met only twice, but whom I knew well by sight, and as an
acquaintance, though I had heard nothing of him for two years. I held out my
hand to him, saying. " Oh, Mr. H., I am so glad to see you." In the excite-
ment of the moment it did not occur to me !LS odd that he should have come
thus to tho door of the dressing-room,-although this would have been an
unlikely thing for a mere acquaintance to do. There was a brilliant light,
and I did not feel the slightest doubt as to his identity. He was a tall,
singular-looking man, and used to wear a frock-coat buttoned unusually high
round the throat. I just observed this coat, but noticed nothing else about
him specially except his face. He was looking at me with a sad expression.
When I held out my hand he did not take it, but shook his head slowly, with-
out a word, and walked away down the passage-back to tho entrance. I did
not stop to look at him, or to think over this strange conduct, being in a
great hurry to finish dressing in time.
Next day, as a number of us were talking over the performance, my sister
called out to me, ,.You will be sorry to hear that Mr. H. is dead. " "Surely
not," I exclaimed, "for I saw him last night at the Antigone." It turned
out that he had been dead two days when I saw the figure.
I have never experienced any other hallucination of the senses.
Miss J.'s sister, Lady M., writes ;-
Allgust 4th, 1890.
The day after the performance of the Antigone I heard unexpectedly
that Mr. H. was dead (I had not known that he was ill), and I mentioned
the fact to my sister, at a party. She seemed greatly astonished, and said
that she had seen him at the Antigone the night before. Mr. H. had only
met my sister twice; but I happened to know, from a conversation which I
had with him, that he had been greatly interested in her. An announce-
Digitized by GOL
Oct.,1890.] Journal 0/ Society /01' Psychicctl Research. 309
ment of the performance of the Antigone was found in a small box of papers
which he had with him at his death.
I think it most unlikely that there should have been any mistake of
identity, as the passage where the figure was seen led only to the dressing-
rooms. But in order to satisfy myself on this point, I sent an account of
the occurrence to the papers. It was widely copied, and I received letters
on the subject. If the figure had been some living man, I think that the
fact would probably have come out. Mr. H.'s appearance wa1ilVerypeculiar.
Mr. W. S. Lilly corroborates as follows :-
August 4th, 1890.
I was present at a party when Lady M. suddenly informed her sister,
Miss J., of the death of Mr. H. I can bear witness to Miss J.'s extreme
astonishment, and her exclamation, "Why, I saw him .last night at the
A 1~tigone."
We have referred to the Times, where the death of Mr. H. is
announced as having taken place on April 24th, 1890.
The account spoken of by Lady M. was sent to the papers within a
week of the occurrence.
G. 196. Visual and Auditory.
This account comes to us from the Dowager Marchioness of Down-
shire. The percipient is dead, and the account is, therefore, at second
hand as regards his experience, but, as will be seen, it is at first-hand
for certain important details.
December 19th, 1889.
It may have been in 1850 or SOOI1 after. We had a French cook, who
had been several years with us, named Cartel. It was in July, when he
caught a violent cold, which became inflammation of the lungs, &c., and the
man was dangerously ill. Two doctors attended him. The weather being·
extremely hot, and his bedroom over the kitchen, I had him moved into a
best spare bedroom, where he continued very ill and bad a fearful cough.
At last the doctors said they could do no more for him, and he was dying.
I asked their permission to try mesmerism. Of course they laughed at me,
but admitted it could do no harm. I seut for Fisher, a professional mes-
merist. Cartel was mesmerised three times a day, and rapidly improved. At
the end of a fortnight the doctors (who had not given up attending him)
pronounced him out of danger, and advised Fisher being sent away. He
went, but after a day or two poor Cartel began to fail again, and ~died,
though I had Fisher back. As I mentioned, it was very hot weather, and,
after the poor man's death, I had the room in which he died dismantled, the
window left open day and night, and the door locked. It remained so for
two or three months, as well as I remember, and then, as we were going to
have the house full, the furniture was all replaced, and Mr. Popham, of
Littlecote, was put into that bedroom. A day or two afterwards Mr.
Popham said, "I have seen a ghost." He then told us that the previous
night he was reading in bed, when he heard a man coughing fearfully in his
Digitized by Google
310 JO'I.('rnal of Society for Psychical Resem'c/t. [Oct., 1890.
room. He could not understand it, as he could see no one, though he
searched the room. He went on reading, and then suddenly looking up he
saw a head (only) at the foot of his bed. He described the features, which
were those of Cartel, exactly, though Mr. Popham had never seen him, and
had never heard of his illness or death. After that several people slept in
the room, but nothing was ever seen or heard. C. DowN~mRE.
G. 398. Visual and Auditory. Haunted House.
This case has already been printed among the "slips," but a good
deal of additional information has since been received about it. It is
It case of haunting where we haye three independent experiences
recorded. One of these, however, differs "ery considerably from the
other two.
From Mrs. E. Sidgwick, 29, Gloucester-square, W.
Some years ago I was staying with my uncle at N. I woke up one night
with a feeling of horror upon me, and after lying awake for a short time I felt
n. cold blast of wind go past me, and I heard a rushing noise as of some one
flying past my bed; it seemed to me that some one had rushed through my
room, and had gone up a small staircase which led to another bedroom, in
which a friend of mine was sleeping. I felt dreadfully frightened-quite
horrified, and did not go to sleep till late in the morning, though this
happened between.12 and 1 o'clock at night. I did not hear the presence
return through the room.
The next morning my friend told me she, too, had heard something come
up the small staircase to her bedroom, but there it had stopped, and she
heard nothing more. The noise made by this presence was very great. I
felt perfectly unnerved by what I had heard during the night, and I asked
my aunt the next day which room in the house was supposed to be the
haunted room. I knew there was a ghost story attached to the house, but
had never believed in it before in the least. My aunt lnughed, and, after SODle
hesitation, said that mine was the haunted room. I then told her what I
had felt the night before, and she promised I should not sleep in the room
again.
A short time after this another girl slept in the room, and she felt the
presence rush past her while she was dressing for dinner. She was, also,
unaware the room was haunted. In course of time my uncle died, and my
aunt left the house. It was taken some years after by a Mr. Stobart; he
made the haunted room into a night nursery, and Mr. and Mrs. Stobart
laughed at the idea of the ghost, but they took care not to mention it to their
nurse. After they had been living there some little time, the nurse felt the
presence go through the room at night, and jumped out of bed, followed it
up the staircase, vainly trying to catch it. I believe this appeared twice during
the time the Stobarts had N. Lucy M. SIDGWlCK.
Later, Mrs. Sidgwick adds :--
I answer at once to tell you all my recollections of the room at N.,
(whereI felt for I did not see) the presenee. It is a small room at the end of
Digitized by Google
Oct, 1890.] . Jot~rnal Of Society for Psychical RR,search. 311
a passage; it has one window and two doors, one of which leads into a large
bedroom by a small flight of stairs. The room faces the front of the house,
and looks out upon the carriage drive; it is a small, cheerful-looking room;
its chief characteristic is the small flight of steps leading into the bedroom.
The real owners of N. live there now, and they declare they have never
seen 01' felt anything ghostly in the house. Sir --- uses my haunted
room as his dressing-room.
1\Irs. Stobart writes :-
I enclose my maid's account of the appeamnce she imagined she RaW
once at N.
I remember. • the evening after . she repeated exactly
the account she now fiends you. She is an absolutely matter-of-fact and
strictly truthful woman, and ha.s been above 21 years in my service; more-
over, beyond vague jokes about ghosts, in which no one really believed, she
had never heard any ghost story connected with the house.
I have written her account for her, from her lips to-day, II.B she dislikes
writing it all herself. My own impression has always been that she was
half asleep, half awake, and fancied it. Only that I know she is not a
fanciful woman, I should have treated the affair as unworthy of the least
notice. Several other people have fancied they saw strange lights in their
rooms, and heard strange noises at N., but as they were nervous and fanciful
people, I do not think their tales worth repeating, though, at the time, they
made a eonsiderable impression on other guests who were with us.
The maid, 1\1rs. Swainston's, account is as follows:-
November 10th; 1884.
About five years ago this autumn I was using as a bedroom the small room
at N., which ha/l several steps in it connecting it with an upper room, which
was lily workroom.
One evening I had just gone to bed as usual, leaving the door open
between the rooms. There was a fire still burning in the upper room. I
had put out the candle, and was settling off to sleep when I felt as if some-
one was in the room, and on looking up saw, as I thought, a woman's face
bending over me. I jumped up ~nd looked about, but saw no one. I could
not say what she was like, or how she wa.s dressed.
I am quite sure I had never heard anything about the room being
haunted, and if I had I should never have troubled my head about such
things. Certainly it could not have been a real person, because all the
servants slept at quite the other end of the house, and the doors locked
between that end o(the house and mine, and there was only Mrs. S. and the
children at my end. I was not very frightened, and went on sleeping in the
room, and never again saw anything. ELIZABETH SWAINSTON.
In another letter Mrs. Stobarl say::; :-
She (her maid) has never had any fancies of the kind before or since.
She had never heard of any ghost story connected with the house, and I
should think would be very difficult to persuade, even from the evidence of
her own senses, that such beings existed.
Many strange noises were heard at N. during our stay there, and
Digitized by GOL
312 Jour-nctl of Soc'iety for Psychical Resea'f'ch. [Oct., 1800.
once or twice imaginative young ladies fancied they saw strange lights in
their rooms ;' but any old house is sure to have rats in it, which account £01'
the noises, and one cannot attach much importance to the fancies of
imaginative and nervous girls.
The next account is from an officer in the Royal Dragoons.
M(,rch 221m, 1885.
In September, 1878, when a boy of 18, I was staying at N. I had
been staying in the house a week, when one night I woke up at about
1 o'clock and saw a man standing at the end of my bed. [was dreadfully
frightened and hid my head under the bedclothes. After some time I thought
I must have been mistaken, but on again looking out I saw distinctly the
figure of an old man with a white beard standing at the end of the bed.
I was at the time in perfect health, and had never previously seen any-
thing of the kind or heard of the house as being haunted. I had been
staying in the house at least a week without seeing anything, but on
mentioning the fact the next morning I was told the house was supposed to
be haunted.
The house at the time was not in possession' of its owners. I left the
house two day/! afterwards but did not sleep in the room again.
J. E. LINDLEY.
In answer to inquiries our informant says ;--
April 7th, 1885.
I certainly have never had a "hallucination of the senses" on any other
occasion. As to the light in the room I have a kind of idea that there was
a moon at the time, and that may have produced the effect; at any rate I can
tell the date within three or four days now, and an almanack would tell
whether the moon was nearly full or not at the time. The date must have
been within three days of September 8th, 1878. To the best of my memory
the blinds were not drawn, nor the shutters closed. The figure itself
appeared white and not self luminous, there was no light in the room,
cxcept what might have been given by the moon. As to the length of time,
I can form no opinion; it 8eemed very long, as I had two good looks at it, and
some time p8ased between each. J. E. LINDLEY.
The moon was full on September 11th, 1878. We have endeavoured
to ascertain whether Captain Lindley's room was the same as that
in which the other percipients' experience occurred, and it appears
that it was not. His recollection about the room is somewhat vague,
but he remembers that the window overlooked the stables. The other
room faced toward the front of the house and looked out over tIle park.
G. 197. Visual and Auditory. Haunted Barracks.
The first account was obtained for us by Mrs. Bolland from Col. G.
October 9th, 1886.
In the autumn of 1862 I was sent from Aldershot to Burnley, Lanca-
shire, by train, in charge of the dismounted men and the women and
children of the detachment of the 16th Lancers, who were to be quartered
Digitized by Google
00. Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 313
there. We arrived late in the evening and much difficulty was experienced
in getting the women and children housed. The officers' quarters are a long
building of two storeys, a passage running from end to end in both storeys
with rooms opening into it back and front. On the upper floor, on reaching
the top of the stairs, the paBSage stretched away on either hand to the ends of
the building. On the right hand, some of the rooms having been occupied
at some time or another by a married officer, a partition had been placed
across the passage so that no light from the end window reached beyond it.
There was a staircase to the lower storey, kitchen, &c., behind that partition.
On the left hand, i.e., from the top of the main stairs, the paSBSge was
quite clear to the end window, the doors of about six rooms, three on either
side, opening on to this paSBSge. I may mention that these barracks had not
been occupied for some years, and none of these rooms were unlocked till the
next day,when I took the barracks over formally,when all the locks, bolts, &c.,
were found very rusty. There was no staircase at the end of this side of the
passage at all to the lower floor, the passage ending at the window.
On the half-landing between the ground and upper floors were two small
rooms for officers' servants, which, at the request of my servant, I permitted
to be used by two of the women who could not find lodgings at that late
hour.
It was either the same night of our arrival, or the night after, when I was
sleeping in one of the front rooms of the upper storey, one just outside the
partition across the passage, that I was awakened by a loud knock at the
door. I thought little of it. It was repeated, and I sat up in bed. It was
again repeated, and I was at the door almost at the same moment, and on
opening it I saw a dim figure of a woman dressed, but with her neck
curiously bound up. Her face was visihle--very pale and ghastly. The
figure commenced to retire down the passage towards the main staircase,
which was close by, passed it, and went on further towards the end window,
through which a flood of moonlight was pouring down the passage. I followed
for a short distance, and spoke, but the figure disappeared on reaching the
end window. As I said before, no doors were unlocked, and there was no
staircase at that end. I remember not thinking much of the circumstance at
the time, but I also remember that I carefully locked my door when I went
to bed again.
On the next mOMling my servant was telling me how inconvenienced the
women had been for the night, so few rooms being available and none to be
got outside, and he mentioned two names. I said, They have no reason to
complain as I gave them the officers' servants' rooms on the stairs. He replied,
they would not sleep there for any amount of money, and did not, as there is
the ghost of a woman constantly seen in these barracks. I said, I saw her last
night. On going to a sort of tavern close by to get hreakfast, I heard
that the appearance was not uncommon, and that traps had been laid to detect
the appearance by officers of other regiments, and that mysterious knocks
had constantly been heard.
I heard also that a woman had been murdered in the barracks, and it was
in the" officers' quarters, by a soldier servant, but it was very many years
ago.
Digitized by Google
314 Jotwnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1800
Afterwards, when my wife came to Burnley, there being no house avail-
able, and only three officers in the barracks, we occupied rooms on the upper
Hoor, and in the room where I had first been awakened we occasionally heard
mysterious noises, but never again at the door. Once the knocking was 80
constant (for 3 or4 times) and so loud that I got up, lit a candle, and examined
the next room from Hoor to ceiling without result; the knocks then appeared
to be in the chimney.
The story connected with the murder of the woman is as follows: The
daughter of a messman of a regiment at Burnley was a friend of one of the
officers. His or some other servant was also enamoured of her. She was
seen by the servant coming out of the officer's room just before mess, and
went to her own. The servant followed and cut her throat with a knife,
afterwards killed the officer, and then himself. I tell the story &8 I heard it,
which was some time after the appearance I saw.
:Major L., to whom we applied for infOlmation, writes from the
barracks on June 19th, 1887, and after giving a substa~tially similar
account of the tragedy (which he had heard about from a doctor who
assisted at the coroner's inquest, and which he was informed occurred
about 1857) continues:-
Owing to the reluctance of officers to live in the room where the first
part of the tragedy was enacted, it was some time afterwards built up and
converted into a coal-cellar. No other structural alterations have been made
in the building. Ever since these most tragic events, the barracks have had
the reputation in the neighbourhood of being haunted, and of being fre-
quently the scene of apparitions, unaccountable noises, and other super-
natural manifestations. .
I cannot say that the first have come under my own personal observation,
but other officers aver that t,hey have seen them, and one stated to me some
time ago that he at times heard what he described as human utterances
choked by blood. But what' I can speak confidently to is the prevalence of
noises, particularly in the early hours of the morning-knocks, slamming of
doors, &c.-the causes of which, notwithstnnding repeated inv.estigations.
remain involved in obscurity.
The following letter is from another officer :-
The Barracks, Burnley, July 28th, 1887.
Major L. tells me you are very anxious to hesr about the strange
appearances and noises that have, from time to time, been seen and heard in
these barracks. As to the former I cannot speak, as I have never actually
seen anything, but as to the noilles I shall give you my experiences during
th, last two yeal'!!.
Shortly aiOOI; my arrival here I was told by an old man that many a
black deed had been done in these barracks in days gone by.
During the last year and a half, I have at times heard the most extra-
ordinary noises between the hours of three and six in the morning. I !un'e
heard footfalls in the passage, first very distinctly and then gradually
becoming fainter and fainter, it being impossible for anyone to get into the
Digitized by Google
Oct.,1890.] JOlt1'lUtl oj Society Jor P8ychical Re8eco·ch. 315
officers' mess during those hours, and no officers having been out of their
quarters. Stamping and banging of doors are frequently heard, and though
we ha\"'e done our best to find out the cause of these strange noises, we have
up to the present been unsuccessful.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Cmliinlled frum the J1!lIe JOURNil.)
Furtlter information improving the evidence in any of tlteBe caseB
will be gratefully received.
B L 14. As pn Motor impulse.-Miss Keyworth, in 1883, feels an
irresistible impulse to return home, and finds her mother ill. Was in no
anxiety about her. Confirmed by her friend. Recorded in 1887.
B L 15. Ad pn Visual. 2nd or 3rd hand. This is a confirmation of a
CHose in Mrs. Crowe's Night Side of Nattwe, p. 146, (of new edition.) Our
informant, Mr. Blaikie's father, was seen by Mrs. Keith passing her window
at about the time of his death.
B L 16. Ad pn VisuaL-Mr. Farrington, miner, sees the figure of his
fonner sweetheart on the night of her death in 1869. Reoorded in 1887.
Of B P 12 from same percipient.
B L 17. Ad pn Visual. 2nd hand.-Our informant Mr. F. Salisbury's
three cousins were drowned in 1854, and the youngest of them, who was
nearly saved, was seen by his aunt at the time. Recorded in 1888.
B L 18. As pn -Mrs. Dutton, in 1880, has a vivid mental impression of
her son being in the water and calling "Mother." Her son was half drowned
in a millpond at that time. Recorded in 1887.
B L 19. An p& -Mr. C. not being able to sleep one night, "some years
ago," read part of Rousseau's Julie, about the peril and escape of a couple in
a boat. His wife dreamt about an exactly similar event.
B L 20. A po Visual. A gentleman sees his father when the latter
is dying elsewhere. Confidential. Date of experience 1865-of narrative 1884.
B L 21. Ad pn Visual and aUditory. Borderland. 2nd lllmd.-Our
informant's father when at collegc, between 1800 and 1810, saw a fellow
student, with whom he used to discuss the question of a. future life, by his
bedside, and heard him say three times, "It is too true." Fellow student
died suddenly that night.
B L 22. Collective. Visual. Borderland.--Miss Wood, a.bout 1865, awoke
and saw the figure of a man. It moved and disappeared. Then her sister
8tarted up soreaming, "Look at the man." Recorded in 1887.
B L 23. Reciprocal impression.-A lady had a feeling of the presence of
a near relative about mid-day, when that relative was having a similar
impression about her. Private.
B L 24. Ad pn Bordcrland Auditury. 2nd hand.-·A Hplat;h heard
by une person when a gentlcman is drowned, and on the same night his
llluther thought that someUlle had oume intu her room. Recorded more
than 40 years after. Private.
B L 25. Ad pn Borderland. Auditory. 2nd or 3rd hand.-A bands-
mall, 56th Regiment, stationed at Kurachee, Scincle, died on Old Year's Night,
Digitized by Google
316 JOU1'nctl of Societ.1J for Psychical Rese(/,rch. [Oct., 1890.
1876. His mother inquired after him by the next mail, as she had heard him
call "Mother" several times in the same night. Recorded 1885.
B L 26. Dream.-Mr. Morrison Davidson relates that his wife told him
at breakfast one morning that she had dreamt of seeing President Lincoln
shot in a box at the theatre at Washington. The news came in the afternoon
papers of the same day. Recorded in 1884.
B L 27. Auditory. At unknown hand.-A family in Australia heard
the accustomed whistle of an absent son, and went to meet him. He was
drowned at the tinle.
B L 28. Collective. Visual.-A lady and her sister see her husband go
into his office from the street and follow him. Office keeper says no one has
entered. Husband elsewhere and anxious to be at office. Confidential.
Recorded eight years after experience.
B L 29. Ad pn Visual. Borderland. 3rd hand, as good as 2nd.-
The mother of our informant saw her father enter her bedroom. A month
later she heard that he had died on that day at about that hour. Our
informant heard it from his father, who was with his mother at the time.
Names given in confidence.
B L 30. Two Japanese officers see (or dream of) a third dripping
wet. He had recently gone abroad and his ship was lost with all hands.
Event and account in 1887. Private.
B L 31. Auditory. Perhaps Reciprocal.-Two sisters hear footsteps
one night. Dog frightened. They search the house in vain. Feel anxious
about brother in India, in consequence, and hear later that he had been ill
with sunstroke at the time. When he came home he recognised the house,
and said he had seen ·it in his delirium, and the two sisters (who heard the
steps) in it. Recorded, 35 years after event, by one of the percipients;
the other is dead. Names strictly private.
B L 32. Experilllents in Thought-transference, but with contact. Mrs.
Damant and also a servant being percipients.-Mrs. Damant used to write
easily and quickly words, figures, &c., or draw shapes thought of; power now
lost. Record in 1887 of experiments about 10 years before.
BL33. Visual.-The percipient of Case No. 34, Phantasms o/the Lidng,
Vol. I., p. 222, saw the figure of a farmer walking in the fields, when the
latter was found to be ill in bed.
B L 33a. Visual.-The same percipienb saw at a friend's funcral the
friend's'brother, who was found to be ill at home.
B G 22. Visual and Auditory.-- The same percipient, when sleeping in a
" haunted" room, woke and saw an old woman, who 8poke to him. Woke
again, and saw her cutting her throat. Afterwards heard that an old woman
had cut her throat there. Private.
B L 34. Ad pn Visual.-Mrs. Bignoll report!! that her sitlter came to
her at 10 o'clock one evening, "about twonty yearl:! ago," and said she had
seen her husband, who was absent. They heard next day that the husband
had died at that hour.
B L 35.-Mr. Gardiner tiends three accounts (2nd hand) of knocks and
noises heard at the time of death. Also an account (3rd hand) of an appari-
tion of an old gentleman to the" man at the wheel," at the time the captain's
father died.
Digitized by Google
