{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1keith_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Keith P NDE 936","mylang":"de"}
          	        Keith P NDE 936  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Keith P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						395  Keith P NDE  936  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I awoke with a leg cramp like so many people have done so many times around the world. I couldn't get this one to stretch out and relax. I headed for the bathroom hoping some hot water in the shower would help relax the muscle. I tried to straighten my body out so I could fit into the shower stall.  At that moment, my head started buzzing and I remember trying to sit down on the toilet.


The next thing I knew I was back up at about my normal height. At first, I thought I was standing but I was slowly moving without walking. The thing I most remember is the feeling it was like a very gentle very warm wind was on my back pushing me, it also felt like I was enveloped in a feeling of total peace, love, and contentment, a feeling I can only describe as Heaven. In the initial moments I got the impression of others standing around me much like you would experience in a crowded bar but that quickly faded. I remember looking through the bedroom adjacent to the bathroom and down the hall and seeing my wife in the dining area, where we had the computer desk, she was on-line and in a chat room. I then remember her getting up and coming my way and walking directly through me. I was out of the bathroom and in the bedroom at this time.


Shortly after that, I woke up on the floor of the bathroom, my wife said she had found my body, and my eyes had been wide open and staring off into space, but I was not breathing. She said my lips and fingers were already blue from the lack of oxygen. She pulled me from the toilet, where I had apparently managed to sit down just beforehand, and began rudimentary CPR once I was on the floor. I would like to add that feeling I described as Heaven was so overpowering that for a short time afterwards I actually resented being revived.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    January 1999

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Best the DOCS can figure is that is was probably a gan mal seizure so severe that is caused me to stop breathing.  Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Protestant

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Protestant

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1keith_p_nde.html