{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9180","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n74_nov_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N74 November 1890","mylang":"de"}
No. LXXIV.-VoL. IV. N OVElIBER, lR90.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOOIETY FOR PSYOHIOAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates .. "
Meetinf of the Council •. .. ..
Genera Meeting . . .. .. ••
Cases Received by the Literary Committee . . . .
On Pseudo.Memory. By Professor E. W. ClaypoJe .•
Cat&logue of Unprinted Cases (Continued) •• ..
Supplementary Library Catalogue .. .. ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBER.
STANLEY, HENRY M., D.C.L., LL.D., 2, Richmond-terrace, S.W.
ASSOCIATES.
ALLEN, REV. W. O. B., 140, Cambridge-street, S.W.
PAGE
•. 317
317
318
310
3tS
330
331
BATES, COLONEL CHARLES ELLISON, 35, Oxford-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
CLAYTON, CHARLES E., "Hillcote," Highcroft Villas, Brighton.
SLOMAN, SAMUEL GEORGE, JUN., 39, West-st.reet, Farnham.
SMITH, GEORGE M., Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
SPERLING, ARTHUR, J.P., Lattenbury Hill, St. Ives, Hunts.
VORES, ARTHUR, M.R.C.S., 8, Mansfield-street, Cavendish-square, W.
WITTIG, GREGOR C., 22, Kornerstrassc, Leipzig.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
COOK, MRS. ELLEN K., Davenport, Iowa, U.S.A.
JENKS, MRS. P. A., 290, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
LIVERMORE, MISS MARY A., Box 565, Melrose, Mass., U.S.A.
TUTTON, MRS. SARA, 203, S. Main-street, South Bend, Indiana, U.S.A.
WALLACE, MRS. MARIA, Murray Hill Hotel, New York, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on the 31st of October, at the
Westminster Town Hall, previous to the Genel'al Meeting. Colonel
Hartley was voted to the chair. The following Members were also
present :-Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. T. Barkworth, F. W. H.
Myers, and R. Pearsall Smith.
One new Member and eight new Associates were elected, whose
Digitized by GOL
318 Journal of Society 10'1' Psychical Research. [Nov., 1890.
names and addresses are given above. The election of five new Asso-
ciates of the American Branch was also recorded.
Various matters of business having been disposed of, the Council
agreed to meet at 19, Buckingham-street, W.C.~ on Friday, December
5th, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 41st General Meeting of the Society was held at the West-
minster Town Hall, on Friday, October 31st, at 4 p.m. Mr. Pearsall
Smith presided.
MR. T. BARKWORTH read a paper on "Some Recent Experiments in
Automatic Writing," in which he described experiments carried on
with a member of his own family circle, a young lady about 15 years
of age. Justice can hardly be done to them in an abstract. Among
them were interesting examples of unconscious memory and association
of ideas, and of apparently greater skill in mental arithmetic exhibited
by the unconscious as compared with the conscious self. Mr. Bark-
worth said that he brought these experiments before the Society
largely in the hope that they would arouse sufficient interest to induce
others to embark in this line of investigation. He regretted that his
appeal for assistance in the Journal for July had only resulted in two I
answers, and these, unfortunately, from gentlemen neither of whom
would use the planchette.
In reply to several questions from members of the audience, Mr.
Barkworth stated that the young lady concerned in his experiments
enjoyed quite normal health, and that the planchette was not 110 neces-
sary element in the process, an ordina.ry pencil, which she sometimes
held between the two hands, serving equally well.
MR. MYERS read an account of a recent experience of Mr.
Hensleigh Wedgwood's in planchette writing, which is printed below.
(M. 676. Page 319.)
Th!l CHAIRMAN quoted an instance of the automatic writing of a
whole volume and its subsequent almost exact reproduction while
temporarily lost, in the life of Madame Guyon. He also spoke of the
danger of believing information obtained through automatic writing,
exemplified in the case of a lady he knew, who had wrecked her whole
fortune by following planchette's advice as to investments.
COLONEL HARTLEY referred to the automatic writing of Mr.
Stainton-Moses, which was executed with an ordinary pen or pencil.
He believed that anyone who sat long enough would obtain automatic
writing.
MR. EDWARD MAITLAND ga.ve an instance of automatic writing
Digitized by Google
Nov.,1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 319
within his own experience, when a question in a sealed envelope,
unknown to the sitters, was appropriately answered by the writing.
After a few words of introduction by the Chairman, MR. HENRY
JAMES then read a paper by his brother, PROFESSOR WILLIAM JAMES, of
Harvard, on .experiments with Mrs. Piper. This paper will appear
in the forthcoming number of the Proceeding8.
PROFESSOR LODGE made some appreciative comments on the paper,
especially with reference to those experiments related which were
rather different from what had been tried in England. He expressed
the hope that more experiments would in process of time be tried by
the deposition of sealed documents, which documents, when posthumous,
might be deciphered, if possible, by the aid of a clairvoyant, thus raising
the improbability of thought-transference from living persons to a high
power if the experiment were successful. He then read a short commu-
nication, discussing how far thought-transference will explain the facts
in Mrs. Piper's case, a paper which, in the forthcoming number of the
Proceedings, is to form an introduction to a list of those statements made
by Phinuit during the English series of sittings ~vhich thought-transfer-
ence from the sitter will not explain. Finally, he indicated the difficulty
he felt in forming any conception as to the mechanism whereby the
information detailed by Phinuit was obtained, and stated that the net
result, so far, of the investigation on his mind was to make the
universe look more idealistic and less materialistic than it had formerly
appeared.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
M. Aut. 676.
This is another interesting case of planchette writing communi-
cated by Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, the operators being himself and
the same lady, whom we will call Mrs. R., who shared in the experiences
recorded in the Journal for December, 1889, p. 174, and February,
1890, p. 208.
Extract from ·Mrs. R.'s Journal.
October 10th, Friday, at --, Mr. Wedgwood and I sitting. The board
moved after a short pause and one preliminary circling.
"David-David-David-dead 143 years."
The butler at this moment announced lunch, and Mr. 'VedgWood said to
the spirit, "'Vill you go on for us afterwards, as we must break oft' now 1"
"I will try."
During lunch Mr. Wedgwood was reckoning up the date indicated as
1747, and conjecturing that the control was perhaps David Hume, who he
thought had died about then. On our beginning again to sit, the following
was volunteered :-
Digitized by Google
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. [Nov., 1890.
" I am not Hume. I have come with Theodora's sister. I was attracted
to her during her life in America. My work was in that land, and my
earthly toil was cut short early, as hers has been. I died at thirty years old.
I toiled five years, carrying forward the lamp of God's truth as I knew it."
Mr. Wedgwood remarked that he must have been a missionary.
" Yes, in Susquehannah and other places."
" Can you give any name besides David 1"
"David Bra-David Bra-David Brain--David Braine-David Brain."
Mr. W. : "Do you mean that your name is Braine 1"
" Very nearly right."
Mr. W. : "Try again."
" David Braine. Not quite all the name; right so~far as it goes
I was born in 1717."
Mr. W. : " Were you a native of America 1"
"(lllegible) My native land. The Indians knew many things. They
heard me, and my work prospered. In some things they were wise."
Mr. W. : "Are you an American 1"
" America·I hold to be my country as we consider things. I worked
at -- " (sentence ends with a line of D.'s).
Here Mr. Wedgwood felt tired, and Miss Hughes proposed that she and
I should go for a walk while he rested. When we came in Mr. Wedgwood
said he thought it had come into his head who our control was. He had
some recollection that in the 18th century a man named David Brainerd was
missionary to the North American Indians. We sat again, and the follow-
ing was written :--
" I am glad you know me. I had not power to complete name or give
more details. I knew that secret of the district. It was guarded by the
Indians, and was made known to two in.dependent circles. Neither of them
succeeded, but the day will come that will uncover the gold."
It was suggested that this meant Heavenly truth.
" I spoke of earthly gold."
Mr. Wedgwood said the writing was so faint he thought powerwas failing.
"Yes, nearly gOlle. I wrote during my five years of work. It kept my
heart alive."
Mr. Wedgwood writes:-
I could not think at first where I had ever heard of Brainard, but I
learn from my daughter ill London that illy sister-in-law, who lived with me
40 or 50 years ago, was a great admirer of Brainard, and seemed to have an
account of his life, hut I am quite certain that I never opened the book and
knew nothing of the dates, which are all correct, as well as his having been
a missionary to the Susquehannahs.
In another letter Mr. Wedgwood writes :-
I see the name is Brainerd, not ard, as I had supposed, and this removes
a difficulty in the writing. Planchetto had written Braine, and said that
was right as far as it went, which it would not have been if thc name had
been Brainard. My daughter has sent me extracts from his life, stating that
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1890.] Journal of Society for Psychicctl Research. 321
he was bom in 1718, and not 1717 as planchette wrote. But Mrs. R. 's
Biographical. Dictionary says that he died in 1747, aged 30.
Mrs. R. writes that she had no knowledge whatever of David
Brainerd before this.
Extract from Biographical Dictionary sent by Mr. Wedgwood:-
Brainerd, David. A celebrated American missionary, who signalised'
himself by his successful endeavours to convert the Indians on the
Susquehannah, Delaware, &c. Died, aged 30, 1747.
It is perhaps noteworthy in connection with the last sentence
of the planchette writing that in the life of Brainerd by Jonathan
Edwards extracts given from his journal show that he wrote 11 good
deal, e.g., "Feb. 3, 1744. Could not but write as well as meditate,"
&c. "Feb. 15, 1745. Was engaged in writing almost all the day."
He invariably speaks of comfort in connection with writing.
L. 850. Experimental Apparition.
Obtained for us by Miss B. Porter, who is acquainted with both
agent and percipient, and has talked over the incident with both of
them. Compare the experiments of Mr. S. H. B. and of Mr. Godfrey
recorded in Pltantasms ('j the Living.
THE AGENT'S ACCOUNT.
From Miss Edith Maughan.
September, 1890.
One night in September, 1888, I was lying awake in bed reading. I for-
get what the book was, but I had recently been studying with interest various
cases of astral projection in Phantctsms of the Li'Ving, and I distinctly
remember making up my mind that night to try whether I could manage to
accomplish a projection of myself by force of will-concentration.
The room next to mine was occupied by a friend of mine [Miss Ethel
Thompson], who was all old acquaintance, and not at all of an excitable turn
of mind. This room had formerly been used as a dressing-room, and there
was a door connecting it with mine. For some years, however, it had been
absolutely separated by the locked door, on my side of which stood a very
hea\'y wardrobe, which would require two strong men to move it away. The
only available exit from my room was the other door which opened on to the
landing, as was also the case with the dressing-room. That night I perfectly
recall lying back on my pillow with a resolute but half doubtful and amused
determination to make Miss Thompson see me. The candle was buming on a
chair at the side of my bed, and I heard only the ticking of the clock in my
room as I "willed" with all my might to appear to her. After a few
minutes I felt dizzy and only half conscious.
I don't know how long this state may have lasted, but I do remember
emerging into a conscious state and thinking I had better leave off, as the
strain had exhausted me.
I gave up, and changing into an easy position I thought I had failed
322 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Nov., 1890.
and needlessly fatigued myself for an impossible fanoy. I blew out my
candle ; at the instant I was startled by hearing an indistinot sound from the
next room. It was Miss Thompson's voioe raised slightly, but I oould not
distinguish more than the aotual sound, whioh was repeated, and then there
was silenoe. I wondered whether she had had a bad dream, and listened a
short time, but did not seriously intagine that it was more than an accidental
ooincidence. Soon after my olock struok 2 (a.m.) and I fell asleep.
Next morning I notioed that Miss Thompson looked rather tired at
breakfast, but I asked no questions. Presently she said, "Had I gone into
her room to frighten her during the night 1" I said I had not left my room.
She declared that I seemed to her to oome in and bend over her. From what
she said I concluded it must have been between 1 and 2 a.m. Her own
acoount is in the possession of the Psyohical Sooiety. All I have to add is,
that I was in my ordinary state of health, and not at all exoited, but merely
bent on trying an experiment.
In a letter accompanying this, Miss Maughan says:-
I can't find the fact noticed in my diary for 1888. I only keep a very
tiny one, just for the sake of entering letters, &c., and have no allusions to
what happens as Ilo rule. I fanoy, though, that it was on the night of
September 10th. Does Miss Thompson give any exaot date, for if it
approximates to that it would be the oorreot one 7 I know it was just at
that time, because it was during her last visit at this house.
THE PERCIPIENT'S ACCOUNT.
The Chimes, Groye Park, Chiswiok.
December 30th, 1889.
During the summer of 1888 (end of August) I was staying with the
Miss Maughans in Linoolnshire. We were interested in Theosophy, and had
been discussing the phenomena of people leaving their bodies and appearing
in their astral forms. I am not a good sleeper, but not at all of a nervous
temperament. I stayed awake one night until two or three. I was perfectly
wide awake, when suddenly I saw Miss Edith Maughan standing by my bedside
in her ordinary dark dressing-gown. The moonlight came in at tho window
sufficiently for me to distinguish her faoe clearly, and her figure partially.
I sat up in bed, and said, rather orossly, "What do you want here, Edith1"
I thought she had oome for some joke. As she didn't answer I immediately
struok a light, but she was gone. It is a mistake that I screamed out. I may
haye spoken suffioiently loudly to be heard in the next room. I thought she
had got out of the room with astonishing rapidity, but I didn't trouble muoh
about it. The next morning I asked why she came into my room. She
denied having done so, but said she had thought of coming, but that as it
might disturb me she decided not. She said she sat up in bed, and for the
sake of something to do was willing herself to go out of her body and oome
to me, and mentioned about the time I saw her. I think I have answered all
your questions. Although it is moreJhan a year ago I remember the incident
clearly, as it made a distinct impression upon me.
ETHEL THOMl'SON.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1890.] Journal of Society fO'1' Psychical Research. 323
L. 851. Experimental Thought-transference. Visual.
The following is a case from America. Compare with it Case L.
845 in the Journal for July, and an experiment of Baron von Schrenck-
Notzing recorded in the Journal, Vol. III., p. 307.
242, W. 4th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.
November 14th, 1887.
About three years ago, or less, my brother, in his letter to me, endeavoured
to interest me in some phenomena which had come to his observation, but
as my reading had thus far not recognised such ideas, I gave his statements
a 0001 reception.
My employment is that of "book pressman," running two large book-
presses (Adams) printing school books. The lady is one of two female
"feeders" directly under my charge, one feeder for each press. She has held
that position for the last four or five years. She is about 45 years old and
intelligent, right-minded, and kind-hearted, morally above suspicion.
One of the experiments which my brother had suggested for me to try to
satisfy myself was to try what the effect might be of looking at and think-
ing of a person at the same time.
This is the history of the first experimellb.
Date, early March, 1886.; time of day, middle of forenoon; place, press-
room. Both of my presses stopped at the time and the lady sitting with
her back turned toward me, at a distance of 15 feet, myself engaged
on the second press, in inspecting and carrying away a heap of printed
paper, she reading the fashion column of a newspaper (as I afterwards
learned). Suddenly the idea occurred to me, "Why not try that experiment
now 1" Instantly I turned toward her, concentrating my look upon the
centre of the back of her head and mentally calling her first name. I
remained in that position for five or six seconds, then turned to my work,
thinking that experiment a failure, as I saw no signs otherwise. Between
25 and 30 minutes (by the clock) afterwards, she arose, and coming toward
me with a hesitating step and a perplexed half smile on her face, said,
,, Warner, were you trying to make me look at you a while ago 1" " Well,
how long ago 1" said I. " About half an hour ago," said she. " Perhaps I
was," said I. " How did I appear to you 1" "Well," said she, "I wasn't
much interested in what I was reading, and all at once the letters seemed to
run together, and your form and face appeared in a wavering, unsteady
way, just to the left, in front of me. You had a smile on your face, a piece
of waste paper in each hand, and your arm seemed to be resting on a table or
something." This was an equal surprise to both of us at the time, although
since then I have verified it with somewhat similar experiments upon other
l.~ies, and repeatedly with this one.
In a later letter Mr. Warner adds :-
The description which Miss Mallou gave of my attitude, "You had a
half smile on your face, a piece of waste psper in each hand, and your arm
seemed to be resting on a table or something," was in most exact accord
with the actual facts. Very many times since then she has actually seen me,
Digitized by Google
324 Journal of Society f(Yf' Psychical Research. [Nov., 1890.
without use of the eyes, while in her vicinity, and when my attention was
not specially turned towards her ; at other timeil, at my will, she would
"sense" me that I was looking at her by a perception as of a flood of
light coming over her eyes, but I cannot at present hope to offer such positive
and well vouched for evidence to your Society as would be accepted on such a
matter. I personally know of other people with as curious experience, but
until all such can be induced to make public matters which ordinarily they
keep very much to themselves, I cannot expect my unsupported testimony to
have any great weight.
Mr. Warner also says, in answer to inquiries :-
There was no understanding .between Miss Mallou and myself that I
should try any experiments upon her or any other lady at any given time or
place. In making this experiment I only hoped to call her attention, by
causing her to feel me or my influence. The projection of my personal
appearance was an equal astonishment to us both, and only occurred, as it
seems, because she was in a very passive condition, mind not excited by
work or pleasure. Both she and myself have since then experimented as we
were working, upon other persons (ladies generally), with the result that
(generally) they would seem "nervous," "fidgety," &c., and look around
towards the person experimenting. "I can feel when anybody is looking
at me," said one lady to me. Miss Mallou was long ago familiar with the
latter phase.
In reply to your question "whether I have met this peculiarity of
'projection' with any other person besides Miss Mallou1" I have, in my
limited experience and opportunities, not, so far, to my knowledge, succeeded
in projecting my personal appearance on any other subject than Miss Mallou.
Both Miss Mallou and myself have, too many times to enumerate, succeeded
in sending out a "force" to others, who were not aware at the time that
they were being experimented with, to leave any lingering doubts in our
minds as to the fact of 9uch a force. Had some of our subjects at the timo
of the experiment not had the excitement of the care of work upon steam.
power machinery upon their minds, I am quite satisfied that such force as
was sent to them would have been still more evident to themselves (as to us),
perhaps even to the point of a "perception of form."
We have somewhat abbreviated Mr. Warner's account of his second
experience :-
My second startling experience took place, as nearly as I can remember,
about five weeks later, and within 25 feet of the same location.
Month, April; time of" day, about 10 o'clock in the forenoon; weather
clear and bright. Both machines running, both feeders employed, the lady
mentioned on the first press in the row. Of course, considerable noise, &c.,
but we are so used to it that we never notice it. I should have mentioned
that this lady had told me that she had at times seen forms and faces about
her, none of them familiar to her, but which she had often proved by indirect
questioning of those bywhom the forms seemed to stand to be relatives, &c.,
of such persons. More than this she knew nothing, but the faculty seemed
to annoy her a little.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1890.] JO'I.IIY"nal of Society for P8ychical Research. 325
While the presses are in motion, and I am walking about them, I often
stand still near one of the feeders and have a little talk for a moment. On
this occasion, after a moment's conversation, I moved away from her, and at
a distance of seven or eight feet from her (back towards her) a loud, heavy
Bound, as of a man's voice, yet somewhat as if spoken into a barrel or hogs-
head, came especislly to my left ear. I looked sharply round and upwards,
as the sound seemed to come from a large belt and pulley almost over
me. My idea was that somebody was "guying" me for talking to the
"girl," as the impression given by the tone and inflection of the voice was,
"Here, that's enough of that now, that will do for you" (just about that
number of words, &c., &c.). Indignantly I turned towards the lady. "Who
was that 1" said I. "Who was what1" said she. "Who was it that hollered
at me 1" said I. " I heard nobody," said she. Then a sort of painful smile
came over her face. "Did you see anybody 1" said I, just "catching on "
to the" situation." "Did you notice me rubbing my hand up and down my
left arm 1" said she. "Yes, but I thought it only a woman's whim," said I.
" Well," said she, "while you were speaking with me a man stood at my
left, with his hand on my arm and hindering me about my work. He had
dark eyes, a long black moustache, a good-natured face, with a teasing smile,
but I was annoyed, and just as you left me I said to myself, 'Must I be
troubled in this way 1 I wish you would go away,' and just then he left me
and went towards you, his hand passing against my shoulder as he moved
towards you; and the next thing you asked, 'Who was that 1' I thought
you had seen him." "No," said I, "I saw nothing." "Well, I heard
nothing," said she. Of course my curiosity was excited by such a thing, so
foreign to all my previous experienco, never having had a spiritual communi-
cation before this experience. I should have stated that this lady informs
me that the difference between the appearanco of an earthly form, as in my
experiments, and those of a spiritual nature, to her vision, is simply that
the colours and impressions are strongest from myself. I have often had
occasion to know that, without any special exertion on my part, she could
see me as well with her eyes closed as open.
Miss Mallou writes as follows:-
Cincinnati, 0., November 30th, 1887.
Mr. Warner kindly let me read letter and printed matter he received
from you, and asked if I would be willing to write about the experience we
had in the office, but as he has written his version, and let me look over it,
I do not think it necessary to write more, only to say that what he has
written is correct, and I could not explain more fully than he has done. If
there is any point that needs any explanation from me, I will be pleased to
give it as plainly as I can. LIZZIE A. MALLOu.
De~ember 16th, 1887.
In answer to your questions of the 8th, I can only say I have always
thought what I have seen has been clairvoyantly. Mr. Warner has written
you and I think has given you a better explanation than I could. I have
always (it seems so to me) had this power of seeing, but when I have told
things I have seen, I have been laughed at and told it was my imagination.
Digitized by Google
326 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1890.
The face 1 saw 1 had never seen until the day spoken of, but on the day
following, and about the same hour, 1 saw the same face again.
1 think the reason 1 did not turn and look at Mr. Warner was, 1 was
annoyed, 1 felt he was looking at me, and when 1 saw the form come round
from my left side (I was leaning with left arm on window sill) 1 did not know
what to think or do, so 1 said to myself, "I won't turn, or let him know
anything about this," but the more 1 thought, 1 was annoyed, and to satisfy
myself (or, as he says, woman's curiosity) 1 asked him if he had been trying
any experiment(on me, and told him why 1 thought he had been.
LIzzm A. MALLou.
The coincidence in tillS case would, of course, be considerably
weakened if Miss Mallou had been in the habit of seeing a phantasm
of Mr. Warner before his experiment was tried. We therefore made
special inquiries on this point. In reply Mr. Warner writes to Mr.
Hodgson on October 11th, 1890:-
Miss Mallou, 1 am entirely~certain, never distinctly BaW me 'Without the use
of her eyflll before date of said experiment, and Bince then, as a rule, only by
momentary glimpses. Her will seems somehow to unconsciously aid and
direct her powers in this direction. As, for instance, being curious to know
the contents of a letter just delivered, and opened by a lady standing on a
machine in her (Miss Mallou's) rear, she saw several of the lines with the
signature, afterwards comparing notes with the holder of the letter, and
with much surprise to the latter.
When 1 have tried to "force" myself upon her as she stood at her work
facing me, and at some distance away, it has often appeared to her as a
blinding white light in her eyes-this only for the instant.
L. 852. Ae pn Auditory.
The following case, sent by Dr. E. W. Symes, is of a somewhat un-
usual type. It would be interesting even were there not the reason
there is for thinking that the doctor's impression may have been due
to his patient's desire for his presence.
It was in the early morning of a Christmas Day, about 12.30 a.m., when I
heard a ring at my night bell, and speaking down my speaking tube (which is
close to my bed)-my wife heard me conversing-I was told by a gentleman,
whose voice 1 well knew and recognised, that 1 was to go at once to see his wife,
who was in labour, and urgently needed my assistance. 1 got up, dressed, and
went to the house, knocked with my stick several times on the back door,
but failing to get an answer returned home to bed. 1 went to church the
next morning, Christmas Day, at 7 a.m., and shortly after 9 the same gentle-
man calledagain and said 1 was to go at once to his wife. 1asked him whether
he came in the night and he said, "No, but 1 nearly did at 12.30 this morn-
ing." 1 said nothing, but went and attended the lady, and then asked for
particulars, without putting any leading qUfllltioll.s. They told me she had been
much worse at 12.30 a.m., and had wanted me to be sent for, but that the
nurse didn't think it necessary. They also said they heard my knocks on the
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1890.] JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Research. 327
back door, but being Christmas morning they thought it was "the waits,"
and so did not answer.
The only remarks I should like to make about the case are these :-
.As an actively engaged doctor it not infrequently happens that I fancy
I hear tlle night bell; but in this case I certainly had a conversation
with the gentleman down my tube. I was much interested in this lady's
case, and she was about due, and I was daily thinking of herand she probably
of me, and I cannot help thinking that it was no delusion on my part that made
me get up and go to attend her. She told me afterwards that she was " very
bad" at 12.30, and did so long that I might be sent for and be with her.
Hope Hall, Halifax. E. WEST Snms, M.D.
April 23rd, 1890.
l\Irs. Symes corroborates as follows :-
I perfectly well remember the events of the night in question, which are
exactly as my husband states. I was awakened by hearing him speaking
down the tube, and said, "Who are you ta).king to, the night bell has not
rung 1" He said, "Yes, it has ; I have to go to Mrs. S." As I always hear
the bell, I thought this curious, and I listened carefully while he spoke
down the tube. He answered several questions (apparently) though I could
hear no voice but his own; which surprised me, as I ca~ always hear the
voice but not the words unless they are very loudly spoken. I said to my
husband, "I think you are mistaken, there is no one there," but he said,
"Nonsense, it IS S. himself, and I must go immediately," which he did,
returning in a short time, and saying that S.'s house was all in darkness,
and he could make no one hear.
May 16th, 1890. M. EVELYN SYMES.
In a later communication Dr. Symes adds :-
The date was December 25th, 1884. Certainly no other husband came
to me, or I should have heard of it afterwa.rds, and, besides, I know Mr. S.'s
voice so well, and had no doubt who was speaking to me.
We talked three times, I thinlc, through the tube. . . . They are
all clear, by the bye, on the point that Mr. S. was at home all the evening,
and all night, and did not go for me till 9 something the next morning.
P. 135. Dream.
From l\Ir. W. N. Evans, through Professor Claypole, of Buchtel
College, Akron, Ohio.
The following incidents occurred in the autumn of 1854, though the
precise date has not been preserved.
The memoranda were written out by me in the form of a story a few
years ago, partly from notes preserved and partly from memory. My
recollections of the event are perfectly clear to this day.
I was living at the village of S. in the Derbyshire potteries. My father
kept the flour mill near the village, and I used to go about from town to
town selling our product to the retailers.
Digitized by Google
328 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1890.
Our nearest neighbour was Mr. H., the station-master, a man of about
middle age, and a great friend of my father's.
On the day now alluded to I started on one of my regular journeys at
about 7 o'clock in the morning, intending to visit Barton-under-Nedwood,
AlrelVas, and other villages, and to return home by way of Burton-on-Trent.
Shortly after my departure, Mr. H. came over to our house, making
anxious inquiries about me. On being told that I had left home early
in the morning, he returned to the station, but during the morning he
came over to our house two or three times, evidently very nervous and
anxious about me. On being pressed for a reason for his anxiety he told
my father that he had had a very realistic and unpleasant dream about
me, the eft'ect of which he could not throw oft'. He said that in his
dream he had distinctly seen me driving up a steep hill ; and on reaching
the top my horse began rearing and plunging, at last falling and throwing
me to the ground, where I lay stunned and covered with blood from a wound
in the head, and that when I was lifted life was extinet. So deep was the
impression made upon Mr. II'.s mind by this dream that his anxieties
during the day only increased, 1101' could he rally under my father's repeated
assurances that dreams were of no value whatever, and that doubtless I
should come home all right in the evening.
In the afternoon, on the road between Barton and Burton, I had to
drive over a railway bridge, with a very long and gradual approach to it. As
I reached the top my horse, excited by the galloping of a pair of fine horses
in the field beside and below me, reared and plunged, and threw me out
upon my head, cutting and bruising me ; and I lay there stunned-for how
long I cannot say, but perhaps a minute or two. My horse was hurt, my
shafts were broken, and I had to employ a man to wheel the broken gig
some miles into Burton, whither I leu my lame horse. There I had a.
wash and some tea, and then walked home to S., five miles. I
arrived very late. Aroused by Mr. H's. continued anxiety, my father had
informed some of his friends of the circumstances. They had assembled
with horses, gigs, &c., to go and search for me, when I walked into the midst
of them, tired and dirty, and with many marks of my unpleasant adventure.
W. N. EVANS.
In answer to inquiries Mr. Evans writes :-
Montreal, August 1st, 1890.
Your letter of July 21st, with enclosure, addressed to our mutual friend,
Prof. Claypole, has been forwarded to me.
The account of my accident I have duly signed as requested. You are
quite at. liberty to use my name, but I think it better not to mention any
others, though probably there are none of Mr. H.'s family there now. Mr.
H. and his wife have long since died; my father and mother are both dead,
and probably no one is living except myself who has any recollection of the
event. I just remember that my eldest sister may have been there, and if
so, she will remember it. I will write and ask her. After so long a time it
is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain corroborative evidence.
ON PSEUDO-MEMORY.
WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO CASE 58 IN THE AMERICAN
"PROCEEDINGS," AND TO P. 135.
Weare glad to print the following remarks with which Professor
Claypole, of Buchtel College, Akron, Ohio, (an Associate of the
American Branch) introduces a premonitory dream which we have
Digitized by Google
Nov.,1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 329
received from him. We hold .that the hypothesis developed by
Professor Royce in his "Report on Phantasms and Presentiments" in
the American Proceedings-that in certain cases a hallucination of
memory may produce an impression that an event of which the news
has just come has been previously dreamt of-is one that deserves
careful consideration: and we think that in one or two cases it affords
at least a plausible explanation of apparently striking presentiments.
But it seems to us that the hypothesis is stretched to extravagance
when it becomes necessary to assume a double memory hallucination-
one of the dream and another of having told it-with further memory
hallucinations on the part of the persons to whom it was told.
In sending the accompanying narrative (P. 135 printed above, p. 325)
I desire to remark on some criticism on a similar case that I forwarded to
the American Society about two years ago. In both cases a forecast of an
event by parties not immediately concerned is apparently implied. Such
forecast involves an enornlOUS psychical difficulty. Telepathy, if proved,
may explain an impression following an event or even one contemporaneous
with it j but an impression antedating an occurrence falls in a different
category. This difficulty was perhaps the motive that led Mr. Royce to
seek other means of explaining the fact.
By reference to the Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical
Research, pp. 475-478, it will be seen at once that Mr. Royce's explanation
does not conform tu the evidence. He asserts (Op. cit., p. 523) that the case
there related is one of pseudo-memory, and that the relation before the event
occurred did not really take place. Now this is evidently contradicted by the
evidence. It, is utterly impossible that the writer could within twelve hours
have imagined having told the story of the dream at breakfast whose exact
fulfilment took place during the day. Further, it is, if possible. more
incredible that the rest of the family should have recalled the fact of the
relation of the dream at breakfast.
Had the whole narrative been based on memory much of Mr. Royce'l)
criticism might have been justifiable. But when it was supported by a letter
written on the day on which the whole took place his method of explana-
tion appears to me, at the very least, utterly irrelevant.
It would be possible to explain away the most positive and well-supportcd
statements if such treatment of evidence could be allowed. The strictest
and severest investigation is, of course, proper and necessary. The more EO
as an event is more strange and mysterious. But to assert or to imply that
a competent witness writes in the evening deliberately that she had related
to the family at breakfast a dream when she had not done so, and by
inference had not dreamed it at all, is simply to deny her truthfulness-mi,,-
take on this point being out of the question. If this course is adopted in the
examinlltion of similar cases it is useless to quote any when they cannot he
verified by written testimony before the fulfilment j a requisition obviously
almost impossible. I say" almost impossible" because even the most ardent
advocate of such presentiments must admit that they pass unfulfilled more
often than fulfilled. But it would be a very erroneous assumption to deny
the validity or value of a detailed and ci?"c1l1T!stantial narrative, such as that
now referred to, because others equally circumstantial had been followed by
no result. The possibility of coincidence must be kept in mind, but until
mathematicians have indicated to us the exact value of the probability we
may safely assume that it is almost zero, and diminishes to a vanishing
quantity very rapidly with every added item of detail, so that it may safely
be neglected.
Digitized by GOL
330 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1890.
On one other point I wish to remark. Mr. Royce adds: "It is evident
that the witness is one who attaches much importance to dreams." So far is
this from the truth that it is exactly opposed to it. The witness was in early
life discouraged from paying any attention to them, and in fact continued in
that mental state, so that she seldom even mentioned them except in such cases
as those related. This is the reason why no record exists of the presentiment
before fulfibnent. Unless they related to some member of.the family they
passed unnoticed; except of late years for scientific purposes.
Regarding the narrative now forwarded, of which some few further details
may perhaps be obtainable, there is no discrepancy between the forecast and
the event except that the boy was not killed, and this really does not
invalidate the story because if the mental vision ceased at or about the
moment of the fall the impression would naturally be that the boy was dead.
In the dream he is represented as being picked up. The narrative implies
that he got up himself. Which of these is correct, msy perhaps yet be
determined.
The nature and strength of the evidence in these and many other similar
cases compels me to totally reject Mr. Royce's explanation from pseudo-
memory as quite untenable and illogical. It merely attacks the testimony
without the slightest reason for so doing. I cannot see any alternative but
to accept the opinion that forecast is one of our mental possibilities and that
the forecast may be sometimes startlingly correct even in detail while at other
times it may be partly erroneous or even wholly fallacious. How the mind
exerts this power is for such societies as this to discover, and also to find out
how or why it sometimes works right and sometimes wrong in its presenti-
ments. But to deny or to explain away as pseudo-memories cases so strongly
attested as some of these that have appeared on the records of the Psychical
Society is not only unphilosophical but adapted to discourage investigation.
Difficulty in a problem, especially in mental science, is the worst excuse
possible for denying its existence or resorting to the Gordian method of
solution.
E. W. CLAYPOLE.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Oontinued from the October JOURNAL.)
Furtltet· information improving the evidence in any qJ tl,ese cases
will be gratefu.lly received.
B L 36 is the anonymous case of apparently spontaneous telepathic
communication on several occasions between two persons not specially con-
nected with one another, mentioned in the Journal, Vol. IV., p. 215.
B L 37. Ae pn Visual.--Mrs. Botterill, about 50 years ago, sees an
apparition of her sister when the latter, ill in the next room, is wishing for
her. Date of narrative, 1889.
B L 38. Ad pn Auditory.-A copy of a paper by the late Major
Valentine Hale Mairis. About the time of his son's death ill India, of which
he was unaware, he heard a knock at his bedroom door, and rustling as of
linen garments outside. Similar phenomena were repeated on the two
following nights. He was greatly impressed. Mrs. Mairis on the same
night dreamt of their SOIl. Date of experience, September, 1843; and of
record, January, 1844.
B L 39. Ae pn Mental vision.--Mrs. Hunt has a. mental vision of a
friend and ascertains that it was probably on the same night that he was
wishing for her advice in a crisis of his life. Exact coincidence of time
cannot be proved.
Digitized by Google
Nov., 1890.] Journal of Society /01' P8ychical Research. 331
B L 40. Ad pn oS: 8-Mrs. Sinton has a vague dream and feeling of rest-
less uneasiness on the day of her son's death in India. Date of experience,
1882; and of record, 1889.
B L 41. Ad pn -Raps at the time of death. From Dr. Cadwent, who
was told by the percipient of the raps and of the inference drawn from them
before the news of the death was received. Date of incident, 1834. Date
of record, 1890.
B L 42. Simultaneous dreams.-Miss Rosamund Curtis and Miss Jessie
Curtis both dream of soap having been taken from the former's room. There
is good reason to think that Miss R. Curtis, as agent, may have caused Miss
J. Curtis's dream.
B L 43. Ae PI-Miss Rosamund Curtis dreams that her uncle is ill the
night after the illness commences, and before she hears of it.
BL44. Ae Ps-Mr. Foster dreams of the birth of a grandchild. 1st hand
account written the day after the dream. Sent by his daughter, Mrs. Clark.
They were, for special reasons, very anxious. On the night of the birth he
dreamt that all was well, was convinced that his dream was veridical, and
mentioned it before the news came. He was not a habitual dreamer, nor
teller of dreams. Date, May, 1847.
B L 45. Dream.-Mrs. Moul dreams twice on the same night that a
certain friend has bought a hanging lamp for the nursery. She calls upon
her friend the next day, and finds that she has just been out to buy such a
lamp, having been made anxious by the upsetting of a table lamp tho
evening before. Date of dream, February, 1889. Recorded same year.
B L 46. Visual. Borderland.-Mrs. Barrett, in India, wakes up and
sees her mother (then in England) sitting in the room with someone stand-
ing beside her. Her mother seems to faint~ Next mail brings news of her
mother's illness-:-commencing with "seizure" of some kind, coincident with
vision. Date of vision, February, 1867. Recorded February, 1889.
B L 47. Simultaneous dreams.-Mrs. Crawford relates that when a
child of 7 she in common with a brother, a sister, and their mother, all
dreamt on the same night of an "Uncle John" (mother's brother) who was
abroad and lost sight of by the family. The children did not know they had
such an uncle. Nothing followed. Recorded October, 1889.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
-Additions sinoe the last list (" Journal" for Jtlly).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
OsoooD (Hamiltoll, M.D.), The Therapeutic Value of Suggestion
during the Hypnotic State, and Report of 35 Cases. (Boston
Medical mid Surgical J otlrnal, Mall 1st and 8th, 1890.) 1890*
PRINCE (Morton, M.D.), Revelations of Hypnotism, Post-Hyp-
notic Suggestion, Automatic Writing and Double Personality.
rAlso report of discussion on this Paper.] (Boston Medical and
"Surgical Jowrna.l, May 15th mid 22nd, 1890.) Boston, U.S.A., 1890*
AZAM (Dr.), Amnesie Periodique ou Dedoublement de la. Per-
sonnalitil.........................................................Bordeaux, 1877
BONJEAN (Albert), L'Hypnotisme et la. Suggestion Mentale
(2 copies) •...........................................................Pa.riB, 1890+
CONGREs INTERNATIONAL DE PSYCHOLOGIE PHYSIOLOGIQUE (1889)
(Compte Rendu du) ..............................................Paris, 1890
• Presented. t One copy presented by the publisher.
Digitized by Google
332 JO'U/I"Y/..al of Society for Psychical Research. (Nov.• 1890.
DELBIEUF (Prof. J.). L'Hypnotisme applique aux .Alterations de
l'Organe Visuel •..•••.....•......••.•.......•.....••.....•..•.•...Paris. 1890
BRUGELMANN (Dr. W.). Uber den Hypnotismus und seine Verwer-
tung in der Praxis.......................•..•.........•..•.....•..Berlin, 1889
DUAY (A.). Die Mysterien des Schlafes und Magnetismus. 2 vols.
(From the French.) ......................................•...Stuttgart. 1855
DESSOIR (Max). Erster Nachtrag zur Bibliographie des Modernen
Hypnotismus •......................•..............................Ben-in. 1890
KERNER(Dr. Justinus). ErinnerungenanF. A. Mesmer..•Frankjort. 1856
LAMBERT (F.), Hypnotismus und Elektrizitil.t im alten Aegypten
(Sphift:IJ,~Januatll. 1888). 1888
LUDWIG (Dr. Wilhelm), Spaziergii.nge eines Wahrheitsuchers ins
Reich der Mystik........•...........................•...........Leipzig. 1890
MESlIrIER (Dr. F. A.), Allgemeine Erlil.uterungen tiber den Mag-
netismus und den Somnambulismus •..............•.•...•..Halle, 1812
MOST (Dr. G. F.), Die Sympathetischen Mittel und Curmethoden
Bostock. 1842
MUNSTERBERG (Dr. Hugo), Die Willenshandlung ••.•.....Freiburg. 1888
-- Beitrii.ge zur Experimentellen Psychologie..........Freibuf·g. 1889
REICHENBACH (Freiherr von). Odische Erwiederungen ...Vienna, 1856
SANTANELLI (Prof. Ferdinand), Geheime Philosophie oder Magisch-
Magnetische Heilkunde. (From the Latin.) .........Stllttgat-t, 1855
SARLO (Francesco de). Sull'lnconsciente, Ipnotismo, Spiritismo,
Lettura del Pensiero (Rivista spet'imentale di Fretlatria, Vol.
XVL. Fasc. iii.}.......................................Re!T!Tio-Emilia, 1890
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
[R] ADARE (Viscount). with introductory remarks by the Earl of
Dum·avon. Experiences ill Spiritualism with Mr. D. D.
Home. (Printed for private circulation.) (2 copies}......... N.D.**
CARUB (Dr. Paul), The Ethical Problem........................Chica!To, 1890*
GODFREY (Rev. N. S.), Table-moving tested, and proved to be the
Result of Satanic Agency (5th edition) ..................London, 1853
WALLACE (Alfred Russel), The Scientific Aspect of the Super-
natural ............................................................London., 1866
YOltKSHIRE SPIRITUAL TELEGRAPH, Vols. I. and IV....Keighley.1855-7
CONORES SPIRlTE ET SPIlUTUALISTE INTERNATION~ (1889)...Paris, 1890
D'HENIN DE CUVILLERS (Baron), Le Magnetisme Eclaire ...Paris, 1820
GOVLART (Simon), Thresor d'histoires admirables et memorables
do nostre temps....................................................Geneva, 1610+
HOFFlIlANN (Jean), Discours au Congres International des Spirites
aBarcelone ....................................................... ..Rome, 1888§
ENNEMOSER (Dr. Joseph), Geschichte der M~gie ............Leipzig, 1844
HELllONT (J. B. von), Die Morgenrothe [Reprint] ......Sulzbach, 1683
HOME (Intorno alIa Vita di Daniele Dunglas), Revista dei Signori
Professori W. F. Barrett e Frederic W. H. Myers. (From
the English.) (3 copies) ..........................................Pesaro, 1890!
Lux, Vol. IlL. Nos. 1- .............................................Bome, 1890+
** One of these was presented by Lord Emly.
* Presented by the publisher. § Presented by the a.uthor.
tPresented by Professor Richet. :::Presented.
[R] It is not a.lluwed to take these books out of the Library.
Digitized by Google
