{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1keith_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Keith J NDE & Pat's Second Person NDE 6142  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tWife (Kim) of Keith tells of his NDE due to heart attack.  Later Kim met a security guard (Pat) in Atlantic City who told Kim that she had an NDE and was told to 'find Kim' and shown Kim's face.  If Pat reads this, please email NDERF.\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Keith J NDE & Pat's Second Person NDE 6142  		  		  		  		  		Wife (Kim) of Keith tells of his NDE due to heart attack.  Later Kim met a security guard (Pat) in Atlantic City who told Kim that she had an NDE and was told to 'find Kim' and shown Kim's face.  If Pat reads this, please email NDERF.">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  				  					  						  					  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  								Layouts  								  					  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				   				  				  					  						  							  						  								  									  										 Near Death Experience  									  									    										   									  									  										 skype.inthefuture  									  								  						    							  							  								  									  									                                                                              									  									  									  									  									    								  							  						  					  				  				  				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							  							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Keith J NDE & Pat's Second Person NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2910 Keith J NDE & Pat's Second Person NDE 6142  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On the eve of New Year's Eve, my 41-year-old husband developed powerful chest pains and I rushed him to the hospital.  He had four major heart attacks and flat lined twice, once for 4-1/2 minutes.  During this event, he immediately traveled out-of-body, toward the ceiling of the hospital room, carefully watching the nurses and doctor working on him.  From this vantage point, he could see dark formless creatures erupting from the tile floor of the hospital room, which he instinctively knew to be sinister, and, although they tried to 'grab' at him as he rose, they were not successful yet they filled him with great fear.  He then saw an otherworldly light, which he described to be the most 'glorious of all Florida sunsets' with perfect peaches, corals, roses and bright yellows.  He rose to the sunset colors and was instructed to 'judge himself' during a life review.  

He later told me that the life review experience 'filled him with much shame' as everything was revealed to him, both small and large.  As soon as the life review was complete, he met directly with God, a Divine Presence, and said, 'Where am I?' He was told, 'You are dead.'  Characteristically, 'Keith', my husband (who made me memorize all of this; a chiropractor just recently killed him) argued with God saying, this: 'But, I have found love for the first time in my life and I do not want to be here.' He was told, 'You will go back through terrible pain. Now go back and save your people.'  

He returned to his body and promptly and punched the attending doctor in the nose, as Keith perceived, in that split second, that a car had hit him and that the doctor was the driver who had hit him.  The doctor said, 'Whoa! Well, I guess he's back!'  Eight months later, Keith picked me up at the bank where I worked, surprising me with a road trip to Atlantic City, NJ; a place I hadn't been to before.  Atlantic City was a good drive of about 5-1/2 hours.  The next day I set about to play quarter slots for the first time.  Keith chose to stay at a machine a few aisles away.  While playing, I noticed an older female security guard staring at me and she was making me uncomfortable.  So, I cashed out and moved aisles. However she, quietly and furtively, moved along with me, setting up a point where she could continue to observe me.  I can still see her in my mind's eye today.  I was SO uncomfortable, I began to cash out again and move when Keith came over to check on me. 

He sat down right next to me and she, the security guard, came over and said, 'Are you Kim?'  I replied, 'Yes.'  She sighed and said, 'I have a story for you. Will you listen?'  Keith and I became quiet and she sat down in the chair adjacent to me.  'Pat' explained that she had been in a medical coma two years prior because of a 'scarlet fever' type of illness.  She had been discovered unconscious by a neighbor and brought to the hospital.  While in this coma, 'in this Other Place', she was shown my face only, given my name as 'Kim' and told to 'find Kim.'  And, so we had found each other but we didn't have the answers because we didn't have the questions.

With the recent death of my beloved husband, Keith, I remain on an urgent quest to find out the meaning of Keith's NDE. We spent the last couple of decades trying to obey the Command given to him, as compulsively and obsessively as one can imagine.  The 'Order' wasn't a suggestion.  It was as if it occupied every cell of both of our beings. We also tried to understand the meaning of the security guard having been ordered to reach out to me (to find me) during her own OBE and NDE during her medical coma.  

I did communicate with the infinitely kind Dr. Moody, and he confirmed that, to his knowledge, there were only two incidents where an individual in the 'hereafter' was told to return and find someone within the Earthly Realm.  One was an individual sent back to find him (Dr. Moody) and the other was my experience in Atlantic City.  I am desperately trying to find out what is expected of me, and, of course, until I do find out, there is this sense of not being 'complete'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/31/91

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   4 major heart attacks, with 2 flat line events.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Keith stated that he saw me in the waiting area after he left his body.  The doctor and nurses had hustled me out there after Keith had died. I had screamed, knowing that he had died and the doctors were still saying they thought he was just hyperventilating.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Keith always maintained super-worldly instincts and alertness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Since I am writing about two separate experiences, Keith's and my own, I will comment as follows. Keith's highest level of alertness was as soon as he responded to the bright Florida sunset colors. My own indirect connection to an NDE is not applicable.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was heightened.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was heightened.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Keith passed into the 'Sunset lights' but he observed, just beyond, those familiar to him waiting beyond the veil. But he was not allowed to see anything other than they were there and they were known to him.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Keith got the sense that there were family members, people spirits known to him', the familiar.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Glorious Florida Sunset colors; the most perfect, the most beautiful of all Florida sunsets.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Shock and awe and a complete absence of fear, with one exception; Keith stated that he maintained an excruciating fear of 'returning to and through the pain.'

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Keith stated to me, 'Just a sense that I should no longer have any fear.'

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     It is Keith's ability to visualize future scenes from his own personal future that confounds me even today.  It wasn't but a couple of weeks BEFORE Keith was killed by the doctor in June of 2011 while I was at his side, right next to the table, that Keith had a future visual of events yet to happen involving both me and Keith.  This scene/visual woke him right up out of a restful sleep, and he told me, in detail.  He made me memorize it.  Similarly, after Keith's NDE and after my meeting with the Atlantic City, NJ security guard, I developed some limited clairaudience.  The most remarkable 'future event' that I saw was an audio warning that I received in 2003, instructing me (voice in my ear) to, 'Move now, a great wave is coming; and everyone will drown.'  This happened to me at least three times.  So, I told Keith about it and he said, 'OK; let's move; I believe you.'  And, we did.  We were living in Biloxi, MS at the time; in a house that was about 13 feet above sea level.  In 2005, the Point Cadet community of Biloxi was completely destroyed by a 40' Katrina wave.  We had fortunately moved 30 miles northward because of my unusual audio experience.  Keith too continued to have supernatural abilities to forecast private and world events, as well as to quickly assess a person's 'soul' (either with benevolent or black-hearted intentions, with remarkable accuracy).

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Not a "churchly" type.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   More spiritual; more religious; not hemmed in by a particular "faith"; faithful, but not devoted to a "faith"

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     The message was remain "fearless" -- OBEY THE COMMAND TO SAVE YOUR PEOPLE.  No matter what...find out!  Who are your people?  Save them from who or what? Then, do it!  If someone doesn't want to hear you, move on...an URGENCY! And, great danger looming! T

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No     Yes, a mystical connection; but definitely, not a "oneness".

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Keith said he was "filled" with the knowledge that God/Supreme Being did exist, was COMPLETELY in charge, and that our obedience to God was all that mattered in the grand scheme of things.  As a matter of fact, Keith's 1991 NDE and my subsequent "brush" with the Hereafter (indirectly) morphed us SO significantly in this regard, we isolated ourselves over all those years...having been changed SO utterly, we shunned and were shunned.  People became uncomfortable with us; and we - with them.  Keith's passionate and truthful recounting of his NDE - at times - made complete strangers get angry with us; and he learned to be discriminate with whom he told his story to.  We never did understand WHY people got angry with us; but they most surely did. It was as if they simply did not want to hear it...did not want to LISTEN.  Did not want to KNOW.  We remained puzzled.  And, of course, very hurt.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   'Save your people.'

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Keith (and me, by proxy) were given a sense to "warn" people...help them, make them listen to us, save them, "by the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes..." I do not know how to explain it any better than that.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     1) Referring to Keith's 1991 NDE: his observations of very physical, very alive beings -- all familiar, all known to him, confirmed to us that life continued uninterrupted.  2)  On 8-27-11, I had a vivid visitation from Keith, and made note of it: In this

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     It almost seemed that AFTER Keith's 1991 NDE, our private hardships and burdens became staggering; almost more than we could bear; it felt almost as if it was a "curse" - although we knew that it must not be.  Nonetheless, we remained driven...as if we ha

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Keith "negotiated" with God...stating, and I quote..."I have found love for the first time" -- and it was this statement that caused (Keith thought) for The Divine to reconsider and send Keith back to his Earthly existence.  Love...Keith's love for me and

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Our lives were completely and utterly snatched away by both of our experiences (referring to Keith's 1991 NDE and my 1992 experience).  It was as if something had been planted right into our brains and we were altered; DRIVEN.  How can I explain it?  We had a HUNGER for the knowledge to satisfy the command and a HUNGER for the ability to obey the command. We were perennially looking for the magic words so that we would be in compliance.  We were desperate to 'figure it all out'.  We were in awe and wonder, but with a fear that we were not doing it properly or sufficiently. We were always looking to see what we might be doing wrong.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Keith would become quite emotional when trying to explain the nuances of the experience. It continued to fill him with wonder decades later; a 'fear' mixed in with that wonder for he always remained uncertain if he was he doing enough to obey the Command given to him, or was he falling short of God's Expectations of him.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Two decades later, Keith's NDE and my "brush" with the Hereafter by proxy through the security guard, remained SO VIVID to us...as if they had just happened days before, but certainly not 20 years before.  The experiences remained CONTINUOUSLY at the forefront of our memories.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Both of us have an extraordinary intuitiveness, and with me, accurate clairaudience skills; with Keith, precognition of future events through dreams and visions.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    Very few people were awe-struck and interested and others were ANGRY with us.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1keith_j_nde.html