{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kay_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Kay M NDE 889","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kay M NDE 889  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kay M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						359  Kay M NDE  889  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My friend told me she could make me pass out.  I, being a naive eight or nine year old didn't believe her.  She dared me to let her try and I went ahead with it not believing anything would happen.  She had me lean over and breath really fast, she stood behind me and squeezed my stomach really tight. The next thing I remember is being in a void. Then all around me almost as if I were one with them, were colors. More than are here on earth and a feeling of peace. I felt like I was surrounded by love, comfort and peace. I also heard music but not like we hear it here.  It seemed as one with the colors. I felt like I understood this all and wanted to stay. Then a sad feeling and I opened my eyes to my friends staring with very worried looks on their faces. They said it had taken a long time for me to wake up. It felt like only a few minutes to me.


After this experience I felt I could understand a lot of adult emotional situations even though I hadn't had the life experience to yet account for this. As an adult, I usually instantly know people's true personalities even when I don't care to know. This has been ever since I have had this experience as a child. I don't know what to call this but I'll never forget it.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1976

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain     n/a   a friend convinced me to let her try to make me pass out by having me lean over and breath real fast and then she stood behind me and squeezed my stomach i didnt think it would work... boy was i wrong!!!!!I had passed out from lack of oxygen, my friends were scared, they say it took awhile for me to wake up.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I didn't feel as if I had a body, almost like I was a speck, a spark.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Felt like only a few seconds -- but was told I was out for five minutes or more.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Music, but not like music here it was interconnected with the colors and feelings -- like it was conveying feelings.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Colors swirling around me kind of like a tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     Felt intermingled with other energy conveying love.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Colors vivid -- many more than here blending together -- alive, awesome.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Very strongly -- felt I understood exactly what was happening -- but could not remember upon wakening -- just a vague persistent feeling.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Feel like I understand people's emotions more than others -- which is good and bad -- many thoughts swirling around while out, like understanding more.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Suddenly felt sad I had to awaken.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe we are here to learn to grow spiritually.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Experienced it more in feelings and colors and knowledge wanted to stay.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Understanding of people's emotions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Waking up.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Not sure what this was but will never forget it.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kay_m_nde.html