{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kayleen_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Kayleen B NDE 22430","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kayleen B NDE 22430  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kayleen B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2569 Kayleen B NDE 22430  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was dark in my bathroom. I couldn't breathe anymore. I hit the door. When my then husband came in, I was already on the floor. Next thing I know, I'm watching him trying to bring me back to life. He didn't know what he was doing. He kept hitting my body against the wall and hitting my chest. I felt me 'laughing' and 'smiling'. I then 'floated' or 'flew' to the bedroom where my daughters sleep. I only felt calm and happy for a bit.  Then I was sad and then happy again. I felt free! Just free! Then, suddenly, felt myself be swooped back into my body and then breathed air again.  At first, I was very angry that I was alive again. Then, scared that I was actually dead. Realized in a moment, that I had 2 babies to raise, and got scared again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  march of 2001

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death I believe I was dead, but no proof.  I was dying from an infection that I didn't know I had.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt very much apart from my human body. I was only a happy being at that time (and every other time I've had this happen).

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt forever. Everything that was/is possible.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was just at home (that time, at least).

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     Not on that occasion.

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness. There was no pain at all. There was contentment.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I'm really not sure how to explain this one.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was FREE. I could have stayed dead and never would have known all the rest of life that I have had.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most think that I'm insane.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It. Was. AWESOME!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Make these more compatible for cell phones. That's what I'm doing this on, my Blackberry cell phone.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kayleen_b_nde.html