{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 3663","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n75_dec_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N75 December 1890","mylang":"de"}
::\0. LXXV.-VOL. IV. DEOEIIIBElI, 1890.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New ~lembeT8 and Associates .. ..
Meeting of the Council .. .. ..
Cases Received by the Literary Committee
Correspondence. .. .. .. ..
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases (Continued) ••
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBER.
PAGE
.. 333
.• 338
•• 334
•• 34,6
•• 848
\VOODRUFFE, MISS ADELAIDE, 3, Prince's-mansions, Victoria-st., S.W.
ASSOCIATES.
ALLEY, C. F. EGERTON, B.A., Heywood College, Tenby.
BUCKLE, 'V. T., l\I.B. (Lond.), 5, Vicarage-villas, Willesden, N.'V.
CHATTOCK, ARTHUR P., Unixel'sity College, Brist()l. .
GRAYTHA~, F. ·W., Trinity College, Cambridge.
::\IARSHALL, MRS., 50, Eaton-place, Brighton.
~EILD, FREDERICK, The Yews, Fernhurst, Sussex.
H,ITCnIE, )lIss, 131, Clapham-road, London, S.'V.
\VITHERS, J. J., B.A., 2, l\Iuseum-chambers, Bury-st., Bloomsbury, 'V.C.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
The }il'st two Cl8 HOIi. Associates.
ALEXANDER, MRS. KEZIA E., Birmingham, Mich., U.S.A.
'WILTSE, Du. A. S., Skiddy, Kansas, U.S.A.
CRAIG, J. \V., Box 291, San Bernardino, Cal., U.S.A.
GILES, MRS. GRACE 1\1., 19, Baltimore-block, Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.A.
HASLET'f, O. C., 452, Spear-street, San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.
HURLEY, A. )1., Cornet· of :First and Monmouth Streets, Independence,
Oregon, U.S.A.
LEONHARDT~ J. S., M.Sc., M.D., 1452, O-st., Lincoln, Nebraska, U.S.A.
MILLER,Mns. H.F.,Hotel Langham,Washington-st.,Boston,Mass.,U.S.A.
SAWIN, REV. T. P., The Manse, 120, First-street, Troy, N.Y., U.S.A.
TAYLOR, EDWARD WYLLYS, 43, Hancock-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
)IEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
.A. Meeting of the Council was held 011 the 5th of December, the
l'rcsidcnt ill the chait·. The following Members were also present :-
Professors 'V. F. BRl'l'ctt aml Oli"er J. Lodge, Dr. A. T, Myers, Rml
Digitized by Google
334 JOt/it-Iud of Society fm' Psychic(tl Resew·ch. [Dec., 181.10.
Messrs. T. Barkworth, William Crookes, Walter Leaf, F. W. H. Myers,
F. Podmore, H. Babington Smith, and R. Pearsall Smith..
One new Member and eight new Associates were elected, whose
names and addresses are given above. The election of ten new
AssociateS of the American Branch, two of whom had been elected as
Honorary Associates, was also recorded.
A minute was made at the request of Professor Lodge, transferring
his name, after the current year, from the list of Associates to that of
Members.
The names of three Associates were at their request transferred to
the American Branch.
The decease of Dr. Muirhead, of Glasgow, a Member of the Society,
was recorded.
It was agreed that the names of several persons who, from various
causes, had virtually ceased to be Members of the ~ociety, should be
struck off the list.
Various matters of routine and other business having engaged the
attention of the Council, it was agreed that its next Meeting should be
at Westminster Town Hall, on Friday, the 30th of January, 1891, at
the close of the Annual Business Meeting, which has been fixed for 3 p.m.
on that day.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 853. A pn Visual. Child Percipient.
From Mrs. Bishop.
July 8th, 1890.
I venture to recount a strange incident which occurred between 8 and 9
years since to one of my children.
Without entering 011 unnecessary details, I must mention that my
husband was taken seriously-and, as it proved, hopelessly-ill, when our
little daughter, to whom he was passionately attached, was two and a half years
of age, and he was ordered by the doctors to travel. It is necessary here to
mention-for on this hangs the strangest part of my tale-that up to this
time my husband cultivated only a moustache, which was exceedingly fair, but
on leaving home he allowed his whiskers and beard to grow, and they came
on very dark.
On the 18th December, 1881, when he had been away from home six
months-during which time he never saw either of his children-he had a
stroke of paralysis. I was with him in Surrey, whilst my little girl and my
boy, aged 7 years, were left at our home ill Kent, in charge of an aunt, a
nurse, and female servants. On the afternoon of the 19th, the two children
were playing in the nursery, when, unobserved, the little girl ran out of the
Digitized by Google
Dec.,1890.] Jourlutl of Society for Psychical Research. 335
room, and all in the house were presently startled by her calling from the
hall to her brothel', in most delighted and excited tones, to come into the
dining-room, for "poor papa" had come home. My aunt, the servants, and
my little son all ran to her, when she seized the boy by the hand and
eagerly drew him into the room. Her surprise and disappointment to find it
empty were great. She then told how she had drawn a chair to the side-
board (and there it stood) that she might get to the biscuit-box (a very
usual proceeding of the little creature's) when, turning to mount it, she saw
•• poor papa" sitting in his armchair, that he put out his arms for" baby to
tiM him, but baby wouldn't 'cause he looked so funny, he had black whiskers
all round here" (pointing to her cheeks and chin). The child was at that
time within a few days of three years old. She had not seen her father for
six months; she had naturally never been told he was growing a beard, and
had she been, would not at her age have realised it, nor have known the
colour. She was questioned and cross-quetltioned, but never varied her tale
in one single particular. On comparing notes with my aunt and the ser-
vants, we found that this apparition appellred to my little daughter during
the unconsciousness which p'l'eceded her father's death. She was at the
time in perfect health, and, is now a bright, healthy girl. She has now nu
recollection of this event, nor do we remind her of it.
I should much like tu hear how this incident can be explained, for,
naturally, there was no imagination at wurk, a8 the fact of her refusing tu
kiss what she supposed tu be her living father, because of his having grown
a beard, proves that she saw him as he then wall, not as she remembered
him in the flesh. She evinced no fellr, unly delight, and afterwards dis-
appointment.
Mrs. Bishop writes later ;-
I have delayed writing to you again, until I could send you the report
of my sister-in-law, which I have just received. I did not communicate
with her personally un the subject, but asked a mutual friend to du so,
that there might be no suggestion of my having refreshed her memory.
My boy writes me that he thinks his recollectiolUl of the occurrence are
more from hearing it since spoken of, than from any distinct remembrance
of his own.
Miss Bishop's account is as follows ;-
July 17th, 1890.
My brother, being an invalid, left home for the benefit of his health. He
was a fair man and wore a moustacho only, till he had been away a short
time, when he grew a beard, which, unlike his moustache, was very dark.
He never returned home, and in about six months died. The day of his
death (December 19th, 1881), for a brief moment he appeared conscious and
to know those around him, but subsided once more into unconsciousness,
and, I noticed, died about 4 o'clock in the afternoon. On returning home
the same night the following strange incident was told us ;--
My brother's little girl, aged nearly 3, was very partial to biscuits,
a.nd had a habit of going on her own account in search of them, in the
dining-room, where she would find them in a biscuit-box on the sideboard.
336 JOt~i'IUtl of Society for P8ychic(~l Rese<tt'clt. [Dec., 11l!1O.
On the afternoon of the da.y I ha.ve mentioned-a.t the time my brother was
dying-my little niece thought Hhe would go and get her dainty, leaving the
nursery Ulmoticec:l. Her brother, her great-aunt (who was taking charge of
them), and the ma.id were there. In a few moments she called to her
hrother, "Come into the dining-room, boy, poor papa has eome home, a.nd
he held out his arms for baby to go to him-but baby wouMn't because he
has black whiskerll all round here" (mtmllillg the beard whieh she had never
seen). ThiK alarmed the aunt anti the maid, who knew there was no one in
the house b"yomi thelUKelves, and searched high and low but found no one.
We questioned the child as to what she had seen, and she told us exactly
the llame tale over and oyer again without deviating one degree from hel'
original statement.
It is my fiml belief that my brother's spirit was constantly with his child,
for she was frequently complaining that someone was "blowjng on her,"
which ceased the day and moment he was buried. L. T. BISHOP.
lIrs. Bishop says she had quit.e forgotten the little girl's complain-
ing of the" blowing on her" till reminded by Miss Bishop's account.
She wrot{l on November 28th, that. she had, after some difficulty,
found the nurse who was with them at the time. This nurse, she
says, remembers the circumstances, but is an illiterate person, from
whom an independent account would not be of much value.
The next tlll"ee cases are from Mrs. Wickham, who is known to
:\lr. )lyers, and who has related the occurrences described yerbo.lly tQ
him. It is an intCl'esting instance of more than one veridical expe-
)'icnce occurring to the same percipient, and of such experiences being
shared by othcr members of her family. Thc three incidents related
are connected with two gentlemen, whom we will call lIr. A. and
llr. B. )lrs. 'Vickham has had It few otber experiences, in at least
one case shared, but not coincidental.
L. 854. Ad ps
On the evening of March 13th, 1879, I was dressing myself to go to /I.
dinner party at Admiralty House, Vittoriolla, Malta. I had accepted Admiral
Rnd Mrs.--'H invitation, much against my will, as a dear friend was lying
seriously ill at Brighton. However, the latest accounts had been so cheering
and hopeful that I had allowed myself to be persuaded by Illy husband into
going. An eerie fellling was creeping over me in an unaccountable manner,
but I tried to throw it off and succeeded in doing so to a certain extent;
still, rlOmcthing made 111C turn my head round a.nd stare into my husband's
drcsijing-l"oolll, which opcned iuto minc. I distinctly saw a hand waving
backwards amI forwards twice. I rUijhcd into thc room-it was cmpty.
Soon aftcrward!!, my husband ClLlnc upst.airs, and I told him what I hud secn,
hut hc put it down to " IIC1TC8." As wc crossed thc watcr the coolllight
IIiI' 8cc1l1cd to reyi\"c mc and I began to laugh at myself for lctting my
imagination play such tricks. Arrh"ed at the Admiral's, the same weird feel-
ing, that something WIUI 11ear 1116, crept U\'er me again. I felt surc that if I
Digitized by Google
Dec.,lSllO.] .rut/nwl of Soc-i.e!!J .fin' PH!Jclrical lWselJ.1'c/'. . :1;37
were to tum round I should lIee something. All through dinner this idea
remained fixed inlUY mind-and my host, by whom I was seated, teased me
about my preoccupation and want of appetite. I was glad when we came
away ;'had the hOlTible tension continued much longer I must have screamed,
I think. It was only by the most powerful effort I could assume the sem-
blance of composure. \Ve got home, somehow, and I dragged myself up-
stairs to my room, and commenced undrellSing. Whilst taking down my
hair I distinctly felt a hand paIlS over my head and neck as if someone was
allSisting me. I told my husband-to be again laughed at. I knelt to say
my prayers. Instead of praying (as I had been used to do) for God to make
my friend well, I, without any will of my own, prayed that he might be
taken out of his misery. I went to bed. Something came and lay beside
me. I clung to my husband, who tried to calm me, assuring me there was
nothing there to hurt or frighten me. A cold mouth seemed tu freeze on my
cheek, and I distinctly heard, "Good-bye, Sis, good-bye," in my friend's well-
known voice. Still my husband declared he could hesr nothing. I said,
" I am sure Mr. A. is dead." My husband said I was hysterical and over-
wrought, drew me towards him and held my hand till I fell asleep-for I
suppose it was a dream and not a vision I had. Be this as it may, I saw my
friend come into my room; a livid mark was across his face. He was
drellSed in a night-shirt, and his feet were bare. He came Ilnd sat beside me
-told me he was dead-that he had left me some money, and before he died
had wished to make some alteration in his bequest, but the end had come so
soon, he had not time to do so. He repeated his "Good-bye," kissed me,
and disappeared.
I told my husband of my dream and marked the date. Five days after-
wards a letter with a deep black border came to me from my friend's brother,
telling me his brother had passed away at 10 o'clock, March 13th. Allowing
for the difference of time, Mr. A. must have come to me either just before
01' just after his death. The legacy left me Wa.<! as he had stated, also the
fact that he had intended to make a change as regarded it, but though
the lawyer was sent for, he came too late. ECOEXIE "-ICKHAlIl.
:Mrs. "'ickham's 'husband, Colonel \Vickham, corroborates a~
follows :-
Certified to truth of above facts.
G. H. WICKH.HI (Lient.-Colonellate R. A.),
A.lIf/lIst 11th, 1890.
L. R55. Ad pn Collective. Visual.
A friend of mino, an officer in the Gordon Highlanders, was severely
wounded in the knee at Tel-el-Kahir.
His mother was a great friend of mine, and when the Carthage hospital
ship brought him to Malta Rhe Rent me 011 hoard to sec him and maktl
arrangemcllt~ for bringing him on shore. Whell I got Oil boal'd I was told
his was one of the worst cases there. So badly waR my poor friend wounded
that it was 1l0t considered safe to send him to the Military Hospital, and he,
together with all officer of the Black Watch, was admitted to the naval one.
By dint of much entreat)', hili nlQtl\Ql' and I were allowed to go there am~
Digitized by Google
338 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [Dec., 1890.
nurse him. The pOOl' fellow was very ill, and as the doctors considered he
would die if an operation was performed, they did not amputate his leg,
which was the only thing that could give him a chlUlce of life. His leg
mortified, but the parts sloughed away, and as he still lingered on, some-
times better, sometimes worse, the doctors began to think he might, per-
haps, recover to a certain degree, though he would be lame for life, and
must eventually die of decline. For nearly three months and a half he lay
on his bed of agony. About a month before his death the head doctor said
that the presence of a young woman always near him excited him and re-
tarded his recovery, so I went away to my home on the other side of the
harbour, going over frequently to see his mother and learn from her how he
was. As he would never take food or medicine, excepting from me, I was
troubled to think what the poor boy might do. At last the doctor sent for
me, begging me to go back as he was literally dying of starvation, refusing to
take food or medicine until I returned. When I went to him he put out his
hand to me and said : "They have let you come back to me now that it is
too late. I've eaten nothing." He lingered about a fortnight after this, and
a few days before the end I pinned the Order of the Osmanli on the front of
the poor dying boy's night-shirt. It was very cold, and the hospital draughty,
my lungs were delicate, and I got a fearful cough and kind of fever from
the impure air of the room, for I sat in an armchair by his bed all night, as
he slept better holding my hand.
One night, January 4th, 1886. no immediate change being apprehended,
his mother made me go home to have a night's rest, as I was by this time
very ill indeed, not being strong at the best of times. He had been in a
kind of lethargy for some hours, and as the doctor said he would probably
sleep, being under the effects of morphia, until the next morning, I con-
sented to go, intending to return at daybreak, 80 that he should find me
there when he awoke. About three o'clock that night my eldest son, who
was sleeping in my room, woke me with the cry of: "Mamma! there is
Mr. B. !" I started up! It was quite true. He floated through the room
about half a foot from the floor, smiling at me as he disappeared through the
window. He was in his night-dress, but, strange to say, his foot, ofwhich the
toes had dropped off from mortification, 100.!l exactly like the other one. We
(both my son and myself) noticed this. Half an hour afterwards a man came
to tell me that Mr. B. had died at 3 o'clock, and I must go to his mother
who had sent for me. She told me that he had been half conscious just
before he died, and was feeling about for my hand, after pressing hors and
that of his soldier-servant who had remained with him to the last. I have
never forgiven myself for going home that night.
EuolfNIE ,\VICKHAM.
Mrs. "Wickham's son, who was, as she informs us, nine years old at
the time of the occurrence, signs the account as follows :-
I certify to the above fact.-EDMUND WICKHAlII.
G. 640. Collective. Visual and tactile.
In the summer of 1886 I was living at Stuttgart, having taken my family
there for e<l~tioJll!ol reasons. We were aU seated at the tea-table, talking
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 339
and laughing, when I felt an extraordinary sensation as if someone was
.leaning heavily on my shoulders. I tried to turn round but literally couldn't
do so. My head was stroked, and my cup, which was full, was lifted up, and
put down half empty. Looking across the table I found my daughter's eyes
fixed, and staring with a scared look in them I never wish to see again, at
the back of where I sat. I said nothing at the time, but when we were
alone together in the drawing-room I asked L. what had made her stare at, or
rather beyond, me so.
" I saw Mr. A. and Mr. B. standing, one on either side of you; they had
one of their hands on each of your shoulders, and they changed places once,"
replied L.
" How were they dressed 1" I asked.
"Mr. A. was in his grey suit; Mr. B. in Highland uniform."
" Did either of them drink out of my cup 1" I asked.
"I don't know. My head was fixed as if in a photographer's rest, and I
could not take my eyes oft' their faces." .
"Were they sad-looking 1"
"No! They were both smiling down at you. I could not see lower than
their waists clearly; there seemed to be a kind of haze, but their faces were
quite clear."
Both these young men had appeared to me previously-at the time of
their deaths. [See two previous accounts.] They were much attached to
me, and very fond of my little daughter. When first meeting these two men
they both told me they had seen me before-that I was in the habit of sitting
in a chair by their bedside and staring at them. Strangely enough, whim
going to tea with one of them, accompanied by his mother, I made the dis-
covery that he was living in the same room that had formerly belonged
to my dead friend [Mr. A.] as I found my initials cut on a pane of glass in
the window, also on a stone by the side of the fireplace. Who or what it
was these two young men saw I cannot tell.
The following is Miss Wickham's account of her share in the
experience at Stuttgart :-
During our stay in Stuttgart, as we were sitting at tea one evening, I
suddenly felt my head seized from behind as though in a vice, and my
attention immediately became attracted to two shadowy forms behind my
mother's chair. These figures moved, as it seemed to me, occasionally
changing their places from my mother's right hand to her left, and they put
their hands on my mother's shoulder. One of the shadows appeared to be
dres'Jed in grey (as indeed he had been when I saw him last), and the other
in a Highland uniform. L. WICKHAli.
L. 856.
The experiences related in the following narrative are remote, and
not at first-hand from the percipient, but are, nevertheless, interesting.
We give the account here as having a certain resemblance to Mrs.
Wickham's, in tbat more than one veridical experience appears to have
Digitized by Google
340 JOlwnal of Society for Psychical Resea1'clt. [Dec., 1890.
occurred to the same percipient, and that a family tendency to such
experiences seems to have been shared by Mrs. Harris's grandfather
and his two daughters.
From Mrs. S. Harris.
389, Beverley-road, Hull. November 26th., 1889.
My husband wishes me to write you just what I remember of my mother's
dream concerning the sad death of my brother, who was drowned many
years ago. We have no written record of it left, although my brother Alfred
made a note of it at the time, and found that, allowing for the difference in
time in the different longitude, my brother Fred's death occurred ahout the
time when motller dreamed he was drowning.
(1. Ad ps.) 1 remember one night 1 was sitting reading in my bedroom,
when my mother came into the room and asked me if I had called her, for she
had heard, as she lay in bed, someone call"Mother" quite loudly. I had heard
nothing, so concluded she must have been dreaming, although she said she
was awake at the time. The next night she came again, and said she heard
the cry again, but louder, and she thought it was Fred's voice. The follow-'
ing night she lay in bed talking to my father; she seemed to drop off to sleep
in an instant, and dil-ectly afterwards !lhe almost sprang out of bed shrieking,
" Oh, Fred, }'red !" My father lifted her in, and said: "You are dreaming,
dear," but she could not be convinced that she had been dreaming, for she
said it was so real; she saw Fred walk over the side of the shipand drop into
the water; she strove to save hint, but could not get a firm hold, as he had
only his shirt on at the time. She was very much troubled about it, and was
afraid something had happened to Fred, and it proved so, for the next news
we had was from the owners of the ship, which my brother had been the
captain of, saying that he was drowned; he had been ill with the fever, and
had got up and left his cabill, his mate, who was sitting up to watch hinl, ha\··
ing fallen asleep. That was at Bombay. Wilen the ship returned to Liver-
pool, my father and Alfred went up to get his effects ; they brought home a
sketch of theship,which my mother, when she saw it, said was the very one
she had seen Fred go over. My mother was a very practical woman, and led
a very busy life. She was not given to fancies, but she had another verysin·
gular experience in dreams, some years before the other, which may, perhaps,
interest you.
(II. Reciprocal.) Many years ago, my mother had a very severe illness.
I do not remember this, for I was too young at the time, but I have often
heard mother tell the.story. She had been so ill that they were very doubtful
of her recovery. One afternoon she went to sleep, and slept very soundly.
'Then she awoke she said: "I have had such a real dream, I dreamt I was at
the gate of your grandfather's farnl, and I walked down the long field, but
when I got to the garden gate I saw father sitting smoking in the room, and
he got up to come to me, but I never got the gate open, but awoke before he
reached it." Well, that same afternoon my grandfather was sitting by the fire,
and, looking out of the window, thought he saw my mother coming down the
field. Knowing how ill she was, he started up in wonder, saying to his wife,
·'Why, ron's Halmahl " ~nq wePt oqt to meet her, bqt before he reached tho
Digitized by Google
Doc., lS90.] Jon-rnal of Soeicl!J JUl' Psych-tcal Resea'l'clt. 341
little gate she was gOIlO. Then they both thought she must be dead, a~d her
spirit had come to them; so grandfather Raddled his horse and came off to
Hull at once, never doubting that she was dead, but infltead of that she had
taken the tum to getting better. She used to Ray it WI\8 so odd, they must
have had strong sympathy with each other, and dreamt together.
(Ill. Ad PD.) My mother's sister had also a strange experience. One of
her daughters got married. and almost immediately afterwards started with
her husband to go to Canada. '1'hey sailed from Hull in the ship Aurora,
which WI\8 wrecked on the C08Rt when she had only been two or three days
gone. Some of the passenger.; were Raved in the boatH, but my cousin and
her husband were drowllCll, went down with the wreck. AR the last boat
pushed off, Rhe gaye her Bihle to II. man she knew, saying, "Gil'e it to my
mother." At the yelY time that the AW'om stl'Uck, my aunt wall IItanding
ironing by the window, when she saw her daughter enter the doorway, which
opened into the kitchen, and go upstairs. My aunt followed her, but
when she got up there waR not anyone to be scen. My aunt told me about it
herself.
\Ve Ilext give foul' accounts of apparent thought-tt'ansfel'ence
between persons in close proximity to each other.
L. 857. An PD Thought-transference.
Mrs. Barber says that such instances frequently occur among her
children, and gives the following extracts from her journal. Her
nccount of a similar incident in which the same child WII.'l percipient was
included in Pllantasm8 of tlte Li't-ing, Y01. I., p. 236.
"DeCflnber 26th, 1886.
"Last week E. came to Ree me before I waR up and I began to speak
to her about what her ChriatmlUl money should be spent in, and when I said,
'I'll tell you what I'ye been thinking you'd like to do with your money
,'she burst ill excitedly with, 'I know! I I."IlO1" what you're
going to say ! '
" •Do you l' I said, amn.'led. ' 'Vhat makes you so sure 1'
" , I kllol(!,' she said, 'it came into my mind jUllt now. You're going to
say that I might spend.it in buying tOyl! to tench a cl&.'lII of Miss Henddon's I '
(Precisely wlmt I was going to say.)"
N.D.-The Cllild had keenly shared my interest in Mi.'lII Headdon's work,
but &''1 the thought with respect to the mOlley Imd been an entirely new one
to me, which I WI1.8 taking the first opportunity of communicating to her, it
was impossible that she could have heard of it in any way.
"On Wednesday J. went to London, and on getting his breakfast at a
little inn in C--, he found a blackclock (i.t'., cockroach) floating in his
coffee. He fished it out and supposed it was a.ll right, but on pursuing the
coffee he got one in his mouth! Next day, at breakfast, he AAid, 'What's the
most horrible thing that could happen to anyone at breakfast 1 I don't mean
getting killed or anything of that sort. ' E. looked at him for a moment and
l14id, 'To have a blackclock in your coffee! ' "
Digitized by Google
342 JO'U'I"fW,l 0/ Society /(Yf' Psychical Reuarclt. [Dec., 1890.
She was asleep in bed when her father returned the night before, and
they met at the breakfast-table for the first tinle the next morning, when the
question was asked quite suddenly. When asked how she came to think of
it, she said, "I looked at the bacon-dish and thought a blackclock in the
bacon,-no, he would see that-it must have been in the coffee."
She has a special horror of blackclocks, 80 the incident may merely have
been one of the numerous instances of her unusually quick wit.
CAROLINB BARBER.
L. 858. An pa Thought-transference.
Received from MI'S. H., through the American branch of the Society
Mr. Hodgson is well acquainted with Mr. and MI'S. H.
. Marc/, 30th, 1889.
Mr. H. came home one afternoon [recently], and said to me, "I saw
Mulliken to-day (I do not know him and his name meant nothing), and
whom do you think he has seen 1" I replied instantly, "Edward S. R."
Mr. H. looked astonished and asked me how I knew7-if I knew Mulliken1-
if I knew he had been in Brazil1 I said, "No," that I did not know why I said
it, the name came to my lips without conscious thought. He said it was very
strange, but Mr. Mulliken had been in Brazil; had been telling him of his
travels, and of meeting Mr. R.
R S. H.
G.S.H.
L. 859. An pn and An pi Thought-transference.
Also through the American Branch. From MI'S. D.
The rattlesnake incident, of which my brother, Dr. Abbot [an Associate
of the American branch of the S.P.R.], spoke to you, happened, I
think, about three years ago. I met in the horsecar a friend who
had just come from Texas, where she had been passing the winter in
0. very lonely place, miles away from any other ranche. I asked her
if anything strange or startling had happened to her in that wild place.
" Yes," she said, "I killed a big rattlesnake with twelve rattles, and you
can't guess what I did it with." " A flat-iron," was my instant answer, and
my surprise was as great as hers when she told me I was right. The snake
was near the house, and she caught up a flat-iron, which was placed against
the door to keep it open, and throwing it at the snake nearly cut his head
off.
Jamuull 3rd, 1889.
You ask if I had ever previously thought of a "flat-iron" 8S an instru-
ment of attack upon anything obnoxious. WIlen a young girl-at least fifty
years ago, I had a great fear of burglars, and often threatened to keep a
fiat-iron in my room, with a string attache«l to it, that could be dropped
upon the head of any burglar who should pass through the front entry of
the house and be accommodating enough to stand still in the right spot, and
let me carry out my pet plan of defence.
I did not c:onsoiously remember this when I 81l8wereci my friond's qu~.
Digitized by Google
Dec, 1890.] Journal of Society fO'¥' Psychical Research. 343
tion so promptly, but shortly after it all came back to me, and my brother
remi~ded. me of it the other day when we were speaking of the letter
received from you. M. C. D.
If the coincidence of the fiat-iron resulted from the re-awakening
of an unconscious train of thought, the same explanation cannot be
applied to the dream of the same percipient given below. Mr. D. is
no longer living, so that his corroboration cannot be obtained.
Jantta'l'1J 6th, 1889.
In an early morning nap, about ten years ago, I dreamed that a servant
rushed to my roam in a state of great excitement, telling me that Mr. S.
had sent me a present of a pair of lions! They had been shut up in one of
the parlours, and were rushing wildly about, trying in every way to escape.
The start and fright woke me, but the whole scene had been so real that I
could not at first believe it was only a dream.
At dinner I said to Mr. D., "Mr. S. sent me a present of a pair of lions
this morning"-not speaking of it as a dream, and you can imagine my
astonishment when he quietly said, "Mr. S. ought not to have sent you
those. They belong to Park. He bought them for you, and they have been
in the store for some days, waiting to be sent out !"
It seemed that Mr. S. and my son had recently been sent to a small
factory in the country to examine accounts, and had found there some very
funny-looking hearthrugs, representing all sorts of strange animals, which
11ad taken the fancy of the people about, who were buying them up eagerly.
My son bought one as a curiosity, meaning to send it out to me, and, as I
said before, had forgotten to do so. It came the next day after my dream,
and although the lions were very queer-looking animals, they had really
been made and meant to represent the "things of the forest."
Mr. S. was a salesman in Mr. D.'s employ, who was almost a stranger to
me. I had not seen him, nor heard hinl spoken of for monilis. I had
neither been reading nor thinking of lions or any other wild things, and
heard not one word of tIle expedition to the CQuntry factory, nor what was
seen there. M. C. D.
Jan1!at"Y 11th, 1889.
Your letter has suggested to me a possible explanation of the cause of my
dream.
In the last 25 years of Mr. D.'s life he was a very early riser, getting up
at half-pastfive o'clock and breakfasting at half-past six. That quiet morn·
ing hour, he has often told me, was the only time in the whole day he
could really call his own. He had a pleasant dressing-room, which he
always enjoyed, and he liked to move about at his leisure, thinking over and
planning the work for the day. After breakfast he was driven into town,
and the first tIling he did there was to give to the coachman anyarticles which
had been sent to the office the day before which were to be brought out to
the house. These packages were always carefully arranged by hinl the last
thing before he left the office i~ the evening.
Digitized by Google
344 JOl~l'n(.tl of Society fm' Psychical Re8eoilY:k [Dec., 1800.
While my husband was l>lanning in his room I was having my morning
nap in mine, the nap in which the strange dream came to me, and I beliel'e
that he thought of that queer rug, which had been lying within his sight
for several days, waiting to be sent to me, and that he felt annoyed at my
son's neglecting to attend to it. Such little acts of carelessness always
troubled him, as his own habits were very methodical.
My son, Park, does not remember much about it, as it made little impres-
sion upon him. M. C. D.
L 860. As pt Simultaneous Dreams.
From Miss M. Bidder, Rayensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
June 9th, 1890.
I was sleeping last night with my Rister, with whom I have shared a room
nIl my life. I was sleeping soundly, and my dreamR, of which I now retain
only the vaguest recollection, took their most usual form of a confused
repetition of all the eventR of the past day jumbled together without mean-
ing or sequence, and without even much distinctness. The whole scene of
the dream was hazy and confused until I became suddenly conscious of the
figure of a skeleton in the foreground, as it were, which disturbed me in my
dream, with a sense of incongruity. I first made a half-conscious effol·t to
banish the figure-which struck me with great horror-from my dream, but
instead of disappearing it grew more and more prominent and distinct,
while all the rest of the scenc and the people in it seemed fading away. The
figure of the skeleton, which I can perfectly recall, presented one of the
most vivid impressions I eyer remember to have received in a dream. It
appeared to stand upright before me, with what seemed to be a dark cloak
llanging about its limbs and fornlinga kind of background as of a black hood
behintl the skull, which showed against it with extreme distinctness. It wna
on the skull, which was facing me full, thllt my attention was chiefly con-
centrated, and as I IItared at it, it IIlowly turned sideways, showing, to my
horror, the profile of a very long, sharp nose in place of the hollow socket.
The feeling of terror with which I perceiyed this (for the first time) was 110
intense as to awaken me, nor could I e,-ell then entirely banish it. So
unpleasantly strong, indeed, was the impression of some horrible presence
which still remained, that it was with difficulty that I l·ellistcd the desire to
rouse my lIistcr that she might help me to shake it off. Some movement of
mine did in fact presently awake her, and I at once began to tell her of my
horrible dream. Before, however, I had de!lcribed it to her, she interrupted
me to tell me of a dream which she had had, and which she said she had
thought so amusing and so certain to allluse me that when she first awoke
from it she had ab1108t roused me thenand there to tell me about it, and had
lain awake for some time wishing I would show signs of stilTing, \lIItil she
presently fell asleep agaill. The dream, all she described it, was that she
had been completing the exclwatioll of a certain very ancient skeleton which
we had found (among many others) in a field of ours, and concerning which
she and I had been making observations together about a week ago. She
had found, in her dream, a new plan of removing the earth in .\teh faahi~Jl
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1890.] Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. 345
as to show the skeleton lying there undisturbed and completely cleared, ant!
had been immensely excited by disoovering in the skull the remains of a
snout. MINNIE BIDDER.
•
June 10th, 1890.
The night before last a curious ease of what I cannot but call telepathy
occurred between myself and my. sister. ('Ve sleep in the same roolll.) For
the last two years the whole family have been ,"ery lIluch interested in some
skeletons and flint instruments found in a gravel pit in one of the fields.
They have never been properly excavated, and about ten days ago my sister
and I had been amusing ourselves pulling out, bone by bone, one of
these "paleolithic men," as we pleased to call them. He was a pal-ticularly
interesting one as we found a flint arrow-head in his hip-bone, but we 01l1y
got to his ribs. On the night in question I dreamt that my father was
excavating in a more approyed method, taking off the top mould and
leaving tIle bones in their original position in the brown earth so that you
could see the form of the lIIan to whom they had belonged. In this way we
lifted out the rest of the !!keletoll at which Illy 8ister and I had been working,
and behold! when we got to the skull it had a snout. We were delighted
to be able to prove this extrdurdillary fact respecting paleolithic lIIan, and the
doctom crowded down from town to 8ee the creature; but my sist~r was
nowhere about, and wmy anxiety to tell her of our discovery I wuke myself
and nearly woke her. I stopped myself just in tinIe, thinking what a shame
it was to spoil her night's rest for a dream. Still wishing she were awake to
hear, and thinking again of the curious effect of the black earth-filled skull,
with its projecting !!nout, and dreaming of my dream, I tUl'llet! o\'er and
dropped into another. Before I had got well stal-ted in this, however, I was
awakened by my 8ister trying to light the <;alldle. "What i!! it?" I said.
"'Vlmt's the matter?" "I'\'e jUl!t hat! such a horrid dream," she answered;
" it haunts me still." But I do not think I need repeat her dream, which I
belie,'e she hali written. Ix.\ BIDDER.
Additional ill/ormation about some Cases already printed.
Mr. Hodgson sendt! the following notes of an interview· with :\Ir.
F. G., the percipient in the first case gin·n ill )11'. l\lyel·s' paper
"On Recognised Apparitions Occurring more than a Year after Death."
(Proceedings S.P.R. Part XV., pp. 17-20.)
St. Louis, Mo. April 16th, 1890.
1n cOllvertl&tioll with Mr. F. G., now 43 years of age, he says that there
Willi a. very special sympathy between hili mother, sister, and himself.
When he I!8.W the apparition ho wali seated at a small table, about two
feet in diameter, and had his left elbow on the table. The scrateh which he
saw wall on the right side of his sister's nOlie, about three-foul-ths of a.n inch
long, and was a somewha.t ragged IImrk. His home at the time of the
incident was ill St. Louis. His mother died within two weekf! after the
incident. His liister's face wus hardly a foot away from his OWII. The SUIl
Digitized by Google
346 Journal of Society for P8yckieal Resea1·ck. [Dec.,1890.
was shining upon it through the open window. The figure disappeared like
an instantaneous evaporation.
Mr. G. has had another experience, but of a somewhat different cha-
racter. Last fall the inlpression persisted for some time of a lady friend of
his, and he could not rid himself fur some time of thoughts of her. He
found afterwards that she died at the time of the curious persistence of Ills
impression.
Mr. G. appears to be a first-class witnetiS.
R. HODGSON.
An abstract of the incident referred to in the corroborative letter
given below was published in Pl,anta8ms of tlte Living, Vol. II., p. 690,
and repeated with additional information in 1\-lr. Myers' paper "On
Recognised Apparitions Occurring more than a Year after Death "
(Proceedings S.P.R. Part XV., pp. 31, 32).
Marahu, Bahia. March 4th, 1890.
DEAR SIR,-With reference to the request in the letter you have en-
closed to me from your correspondent, I remember, when you and I were
living together at our works nearMarahu, that you had a warning, or pre-
sentiment, or knowledge (I am not up in these matters, and do not know
which is the proper term to use) of the danger or death of the gentleman
referred to in Mr. Myers' letter. I recollect also your makillg sketches at
the time, almost mechanically, of an apparently fainting or dying man, with
the head sunk downwards on the breast. That the death actually took place
at the time of your presentiment was verified later on when the mails of that
date arrived from Europe. If my memory does not play me false, I think
the feeling of your being likely to get news of the death was strollgly re-
excited in you shortly before the arrival olthe mai1.-Yours faithfully,
EWEN CATTANACIL
John Cameron Grant, Esq.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Mr. Charles L. Money writes to us, under date November 24th,
complaining that in our report of the General Meeting 011 July 11th
last (which he has only just seen) the ground of his objection to the
phrase, "Hallucination of the senses," as used by the S.P.R., was not
stated, and expresses a desire,
"to again urge upon the Society my conviction that serious detriment
is being, and will continue to be, done to its character and usefulness by the
branding of all such phenomena as may be or have been exhaUlltively
investigated, indiscriminately and in the. face of forcible and authentic
evidence, in so many cases carefully weighed and tested by intelligent and
impartial investigators, with the condemnatory nickname of sense-illusions
or ' hallucinations.'
Digitized by Google
Dec., 1800.] Jou,1'nal 0/ Society lor Psychical,Researclt. 347
"WhBtever meaning we, as a body, may agree to attach to this descriptive
11oun, the word has but one signification for the 'man in the street'--for the
outside world, and it appears to me most strongly that-bearing in mind the
bitter scathing contempt we have to encounter at the hands of the material-
istic Press, the cynical and lofty sneers of the votaries of the 'Higher
Philosophy,' and the still open hatred and bigotry of religious cotelies-it
is little short of fatuous self-stultification on our part to dub researches-for
which alone (or words have no meaning) the S.P.R. exists-into admitted
Facta carefully authenticated, as mere investigations into 'sense-illusions,'
or, what means the same thing, 'hallucinations.'
"'ACensus of Hallucinations.' Why, sir, such a description would fittingly
apply to the 'researches' of a body of Lunacy Commissioners, or the
labours of a fraternity of mad-doctors engaged in tabling the brain-vagaries
of their distraught patients, rather th8Jl the scientific examination of sane
and well-balanced evidence, the eareful collation and recording of authen-
ticated facts, with a view to their unprejudiced consideration, tending to a
closer knowledge and keener study of certain laws hitherto unsuspected, and
imperfectly judged, and ofoccurrences in connection with them which we can
only justly at present characterise af! unexplained phenomena.
CHARLES L. MONEY."
It was our impression when Mr. Money made his remarks-and this
impression is confirmed by the perusal of his letter-that he had not
read either the discussion of this subject in Plumtasms of tke Li'ving or
the President's address on the "Census of Hallucinations," on July 8th,
1889 (in Proceeding8, Part XV., pp. 7-11), in which his objection i:;
anticipated and answered. To repeat the arguments there used would
occupy too much space; we will, therefore, merely remind our readers
that what is required is a word or phrase which will include all
kinds of apparitions, whether veridical or purely subjective, or known
to have their origin in hypnotic suggestion-apparitions representing
living people, dead people, unrecognised people, the percipient himself,
fragments of human beings, animals, and inanimate objects, &c. The
word must also include auditory and tactual impressions similarly un-
cOllllected with the ordinary external world. The expression, ".Hallucina-
tion of the senses," denotes all such experiences for the psychologist and,
we think, for most educated persons, without any idea of "branding"
them with "a condemnatory nickname." But if anyone will suggest some
other word or phrase which will equally well express our meaning,
while avoiding the objections which Mr. Money feels so strongly, we
shall be glad to give the suggestion full consideration. The word
"appearance," suggested by Mr. Money at the meeting, is clearly at the
same time too wide and too narrow. It excludes auditory and tactile
impressions, and includes an indefinite number of phenomena with which
our investigations have nothing to do.
Digitized by Google
348 Jouriutl 0/ Society for P8.IJch~c(tl Resectrclt. [DEc.,lS90
CATALOGUE OF GNPRINTED CASES.
(C'OlltiIlHcd frollt the NQcembcr JOURNAL.)
Further information improl:ing tlte evidence in any oj these cases.
will be gratefully receit:ed.
B L 48. 2nd hand. Vision or impression.-Cap~in M. relates that in
the winter of 1877-78 Mrs. R. had a "vision" of an accident to a dog-cart
and Mrs. 'V., who was in it, coincidently with the event. Mrs. R. knew
that Mrs. 'V. was out (hi\ing'.. 'rhe accident happened a mile away.
B L 49. Visual. 31'<1 Imlld.-Miss Creagh relates, on the autholity of her
mother, that Mr. W. Creagh (Miss C.'s uncle) saw the phantasm ofa sister
pass across the room. The .sister died exactly at the time, as noted by
watch. No dates given. .. .
B L 50. Visual. Borderland:. 2nd hand from person cognisant of
impression before event.-Lord Emly relates in 1889 that "about 24 years
ago" he mentioned to an old family boatman that his (Lord E.'s) cousin was
ill. The old boatman at once asserted that she was dead, explaining that,
the night before, he had seel~ Lord E.'s grandfather, and his face was so sad
that percipient knew something was going to happen to the family. Next
morning news of the cousin's death arrives. .
B L 51. Dream. 2nd haml.-l\Irs. So has he<'\rd her mother relate that
in 1842 she dreamt 3 times in one night that one of her yoqng daughters had
fallen out of a window. Next day news came that thc dreamer's own sister
had so fallen while sitting with the daughter, nearly dragging the child with
her. Exact time of accident not stated. Recorded Febl'Uary, 1889.
B L 52. Visual. 2nd hand.-The narrator's mother (now dead) scm;
tall figure near her, ill the house, coincidently with the death of her sister
abroad. Death unexpected by percipient. The figure was not recognised as
that of her sister at the time. No dates given. Recorded January, 1889.
B L 53. Dream. 2nd hand.-Thesal1le percipient, whilst nursing a sick
son, dreams of her husband, then in 'V. Indies, saying "I need your care
1010 lUuch morc." Her husband is at the time taken ill of fever, and dies.
Xo dates.
B L 54. Visual and AUllitory.-l\Irs. Potts at school is awakened by
hearing her name called. She thinks it is her friend and turns round to
answer, when she sees n man's figuro hemling o\'er (tIwtliu schoolfellow's
hed. She hears next lIlol'lling that this girl's father died in the night. No
dates given.
B L 55. Mr. Edmund Dickson has impl'clSsion of his "ife sending telo·
gram to say that she is ill and canllot keep appointmcnt. His wife at the
time intends to send such I~ teleb'ram, but gets better and does not do flO.
Experience, January, 1885. Recorded July, 1889. .
B L 56. lmpl'ession.-A lady narrstes ill August, 1888, that she had an
" impression of something bad happening to her father" at the time he was
thrown from gig and injured. No date.
B L 57. The same lady records a similar impression which she had
when her mother broke a blood-vessel in 1850.
B L 58. The same lady also records that she had a similar impression
when her brother died abroad in 1871. This impression is confirmed by the
narrator's daughter, who heard it mentioned before the letter containing the
news was opened.
B L ii!J. Vit:!Ual. Ullrccogniscd.--Ml's. Sidebottolllllarratcs in 1888 that
she once saw a dark shadow gliding by hoI' in the passage and fading away.
She did not recognisc the figure; but she quitc expect.t.>d to heal' of a death
in thc family. A cOll!>in, lIIl1ch attached to her, died at the time. No date.
r .rp... Digilizedby Goooie
"-II 0
