{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kaycee_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kaycee Probable NDE 6188","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kaycee Probable NDE 6188  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kaycee Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2950 Kaycee Probable NDE 6188  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During sleep, I experienced a dream of feeling entirely encircled within a warm embrace, beyond anything possible on this earth. I did not want it to stop. I saw my father and some people behind him, who I think were my sister and grandmother. All had passed over. 

A voice I didn't recognize said, 'If you want to go back, blow'. I guess I decided to go back, so I went to blow but to do so, I had to draw breath first (to be able to blow). I suppose this is when I started to breathe again. 

The unconditional love in that embrace stayed with me for many weeks after. I don't feel it so much now. I just remember it was amazing and wonderful.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Overweight - sleep apnea most likely due to overweight - stopped breathing during sleep

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the whole time û I don't remember going in or coming out or a regular night's sleep.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My father seemed younger than I remembered him. Other people were not so clear û it was kind of grey and murky around them. But they were together and my father was in front and he was the last one to pass. They recognized me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I don't remember anything about that. I just analyzed what happened afterward and figured it was sleep apnea due to being overweight at the time. Sometimes, back then, I would awaken during the night because I had not been breathing.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great love during the embrace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I only remembered the feeling of warm unconditioinal love and how unusual the words spoken to me "if you want to go back, blow".  Prior to that I had not considered near death experiences, nor been religious.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I turned to religion because of suicidal thoughts.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   [as detailed in above narrative]  I remember, before this incident, the words 'You can go if you want to, but it will be hard' and I responded 'Yes, I want to go'. I believe this was my decision to come into my birth mother.  Yes, it has been and is hard and I sometimes wonder why I agreed. I am in a lot of pain.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I remember during my life hearing the words spoken "You can go if you want to but it will be hard"  and I replied "Yes, I want to go"  As I read NDE's I realize we may exist before we are born here.  I have always felt I was born into wrong family, like I

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Unknown

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     Perhaps I misbehaved in prior lives. I am a moral, honest, quiet, supportive soul, a mother of five, who has experienced much suffering in this life. I offer all suffering for souls. Some days I regret saying 'yes' [to be born into this earth life] but this universe is such an incredible creation: the way it all fits together so perfectly. We make the suffering, not God.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No I was searching for a reason. I went to psychics, new age areas, explored meditation, did angel study. I finally found religion and have come home. I can't say that there was a dramatic change due to my near-death experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I have only begun to mention it recently.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I did not think much about it at the time, but recently, as I've been reading about near-death experiences, I've realized that I've experienced oneàalthough mine is not as colorful or as exciting as others.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years ago, I shared it. There were no reactions; no-one was influenced,

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   During my lifetime, once in a while, I would read or hear about near-death experience but did not pay much attention, or give much thought, to it. I didn't know anyone personally who'd experienced near-death experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I felt the unconditional love in that embrace for weeks afterwards, every time I brought the incident to mind. The feeling has faded but I remember; it was the best ever.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After reading about many near-death experiences, I realize that what happened to me that night was a near-death experience. Sleep apnea seems like a lightweight way to get into one, compared to the other people's accidents and operations. I am not overweight any longer and sleep better.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I wish it had been as exciting as some of those I read about, and that I would feel 'altered for the better' like others seem to experience after coming back. My experience seems 'flat' compared to most others I read.

During your experience, did you encounter any specific information / awareness that you either did (or did not) exist prior to this lifetime?    Yes   I remember during my life hearing the words spoken, 'You can go if you want to, but it will be hard' and I replied 'Yes, I want to go'.  As I read near-death experiences, I realize we may exist before we are born here on earth. I have always felt I was born into the wrong family, like I don't belong here.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kaycee_probable_nde.html