{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1katie_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Katie A NDE 3183","mylang":"de"}
          	        Katie A NDE 3183  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  				    				  				  				  					  						  					  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  								Layouts  								  					  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				   				  				  					  						  							  						  								  									  										 Near Death Experience  									  									  										   									  									  										 skype.inthefuture  									  								  						    							  							  								  									  									                                                                              									  									  									  									  									    								  							  						  					  				  				  				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							  							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  			    			      			      			        			        Katie A NDE  			          			          			          Home  			          Classification NDE  			          1264 Katie A NDE 3183  		              		            		          			    			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the kitchen eating nuts, when one cashew went down my windpipe. I turned blue and passed out. My family saw this and tried to revive me, but was unable to do so. I was dead for five minutes. My Mother called 911, but it was winter and the ambulance was unable to come for thirty minutes. My grandfather was a firefighter, so he knew what to do, but nothing worked on me.  When I had a bowel movement, my grandfather said that there was nothing else he could do.  He pronounced me 'dead.'

When I died, I rose above my body and saw my grandfather working on my body. My body was of no interest to me; instead, I moved out of the room towards a presence I felt in the living room area. I went towards this presence, which was within a brilliant, sun-light bright, light space - not a tunnel, but an area. The presence was unbelievable peace, love, acceptance, calm, and joy. The presence enveloped me and my joy was indescribable - as I write this, I am brought back to this emotion and it delights me still. The feeling is spectacular. I did not experience this presence as God (I was too young to understand the concept) but I did experience this presence as that which made me. I knew, without a doubt that I was a made creature, a being that owed its existence to this presence.

I do not remember reentering my body.

When I woke up the next day, I knew two things for sure: Firstly, that there is life after death. Secondly, that I was a created being. I did not know this as a rational knowledge, but rather I expressed this by pestering my mother with question after question: Who made me? What was eternity? And what was God? She was unable to answer my questions, but was wise enough to let me talk to others who could.

This experience moved me so deeply that I have dedicated my life to looking for answers to my questions through the study both philosophy and religion. I am currently working on a doctorate in Theology.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  winter 1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    choking accident  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was with the presence.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was with the presence.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was too young to really understand the passage of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The light did not hurt my eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The voices were muffled.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I encountered the presence that created me. See above.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       See above.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   I was a child - I had no religious convictions. I picked Moderate because I had to pick something to submit this!

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     My parents were religious - but as a child I was too young to be. Now, I am very religious, for I know that I did not make myself. I love and honor the being that made me, and I thank him/her for this precious gift through my religion.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'I am very religious, I do not consider that I am any of the above.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     My parents were religious - but as a child I was too young to be. Now, I am very religious, for I know that I did not make myself. I love and honor the being that made me, and I thank him/her for this precious gift through my religion.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Is it special knowledge to know that there is life after death? Or that we are created?

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I was a child when I experienced this, so I am not sure. However, I am still very trusting and accepting of people, like a child. I think that I kept that innocent, child-like acceptance of all people and things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The emotional part of the experience is unlike anything I have known on earth.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I want to know and experience this presence again.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    But rarely. I told my mother, who believed me. But no one else believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was a child - I processed the experience by asking questions about dying and eternity and the nature of God to just about anyone who would listen. Because my mother was the only one who responded to these questions, I ended up by just asking her my many questions.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even now, when I recall the experience it is more real than anything I have ever experienced in my life. I not only recall the memory, but also the emotion. This still motivates me to ask questions.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have had some religious experiences that were CLOSE to this experience, but not really.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Would it not be interesting to link these experiences to religion?    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1katie_a_nde.html