{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1katie_nde_2526.html","mytitle":"Katie NDE 2526","mylang":"de"}
          	        Katie NDE 2526  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Katie NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						802  Katie NDE  2526  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  			
I had a feeling of extreme peace and I loved being where I was. I was not afraid at all and I wanted to stay where I was. I then began to see what was going on around my body. It was as if I were looking down from above and behind my body. I watched things go on for only a few moments before I was instructed to go back, because it was not time for me to die. I never saw where the voice came from, but I felt the presence of a being beside me. I don't recall seeing anything, but I knew that where I was, it was a good place and I wanted to stay. I did not question the voices command. I just did as I was instructed. I went back and fought for my life.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 3-9-2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic reaction       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was in anaphylactic shock.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   Until the voice was heard I would have to say I was less conscious and alert. I just had an extremely peaceful feeling and a feeling of all is well. I was not in this state for long. When I heard the voice and felt the presence of the being beside me I felt very conscious and alert.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I heard the voice and I was instructed to go back.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     It was a void, but I loved it and I wanted to stay and go on, but the being met me and said, 'No, It is not time yet, go back.'  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot say that this was a vision, but rather I was no longer with my body. I was going to be with my maker, but it was not my time yet.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I am not sure, but I had to pass through something, because when I was instructed to go back I was sent through something, but I cannot explain what the something was.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     the being was standing beside me on the right. Yes, sort of, I think it was God or Jesus. The only thing the being said to me was, 'It is not time for you to come yet. You have to go back.' And, I went back. I did not see the being, but felt its presence.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt happiness, love, extreme peace, joy, contentment.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I did have a feeling that all was well and good.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain It has been only a short time, but I know that my relationships will change as a result of this experience.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Two parts were meaningful. The extreme feeling of peace, joy and happiness to be where I was, it was one of them. The other was the being sending me back and telling me it was not my time yet.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was the first thing I said when I came back. I told everyone who came into my room. I am still telling them.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had seen things on TV. Other than looking down on my body as the doctors and nurses worked on me, my experience was quite different from what I had seen on TV. I don't think it had any impact on my experience. Even when I was looking down on my body it was not quite what I had seen on TV.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know the experience was real! It happened because I was dying, but it was not my time to die. I know that is why I did not go far and the being told me to go back. I did not question the being.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It has only been one day since my experience. I still view the experience as real. It was a real experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       The experience was real!!!!!  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I felt it was hard to understand what some of the questions were asking. Word questions differently.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1katie_nde_2526.html