{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V5 1891-2","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v5_1891-2.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V5 1891-2","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
Volume V.
1891-92.
IOB PRIVATE CIRCULATION AMONG MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES ONLY.
The Society's Rooms :
19, BUCKINGHAM STREET, ADELPHI, W.C.
TO I rvi X
PUBL1J L.;:urv
1SU27TA
ASTOR LCN( IX A ID
T-ILDfiN FOU.t. CATIONS
K 1036 L.
JOUENAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME V.
1891-92.
A., Miss, Case contributed by 322
A., Mr., Case contributed by 35
A., Mrs., Case contributed by 305
A., Mrs. H., Case contributed by 109
Abbadie, Antoine A', on Negative Hallucinations 210
Abbott, Mrs., The "Little Georgia Magnet." Prof. O. Lodge's Report
on the Performances of 168
Adams, Prof. John Couch, Obituary Notice of 203
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research, Meetings of
4, 34, 217. 221, 282
,, „ ,, ,, Members, List of. (See Members.)
" Annales des Sciences Psychiques," Notice of 45
Annual Business Meetings 18,198
Anonymously Contributed Cases 6,236,294,308,323
Automatic Message-* (Writing, &c.) 83, 84, 100, 218, 230, 299, 318
Automatism, Sensory, F. W. H. Myers on 315
B., Mrs., Case contributed by .. 36
B. T., Negative Hallucinations 144
Backman, Dr. Alfred, Experiments in Hypnotic Clairvoyance ... 66, 146
Barkworth, T., Case contributed by 2
,, Note on Carpenter's Mental Physiology 209
Barrett, Prof., Cases contributed by 2,105
Beard, Mrs., Case contributed by 258
Beaumont, Mrs. , Case contributed by 324
Benson, Miss M., Case contributed by 143
Berillon, Dr., on Hypnotic Suggestion and Education, &c. (International
Congress of Experimental Psychology) 287,292,293
Bemheim, Dr., on Hysterical Amblyopia, &c. (International Congress
of Experimental Psychology) 287, 288, 293
ii Index to Vol. V.
Black, Mrs. McCall, Case contributed by 270
Blackwell, Dr. Elizabeth, Remarks on Hallucination (International
Congress of Experimental Psychology) 291
Blaksley, Major-General, Case contributed by 241
Boeteau, J. M., A Case of Double Personality 260
Bourne, Rev. Ansel, A Case of Double Consciousness 5, 51, 83
Bramwell, Dr. J. Milne, Experiments in Hypnotic Ana-sthesia ... 67, 293
Bundy, Col. , Obituary Notice of 310
Charcot, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 93,94
Childe, Mrs. Baldwyn, Case contributed by 206
Clairvoyance, Independent or Telepathic 1, 3, 4, 20, 66, 78, 146
Committees, Elections on 20, 199
Correspondence, Various 31, 43, 45, 77, 78, 144, 152, 153, 158,
177, 178, 209, 210, 228, 231, 236, 239,261, 279, 326
Council, Elections on 19. 20, 166, 199
Meetings of ... 19, 50, 66, 82, 97, 130, 145, 166, 182, 199,
214, 234, 266, 282, 299, 314, 330
Crewdson, Edward, Case contributed by 61
Crowther, W. F., on Dr. Luys' Hypnotic Experiments ... 236
D.
Darling, Thomas, Case contributed by 242
Davey, S. J., Imitations by Conjuring of Spiritualistic Phenomena
43, 266-268
,, ,, Obituary Notice 16
Davidson, Prof. T., Cases contributed by .. 173,174
Dean, H., Case contributed by 141
Delboeuf, Prof., on the Appreciation of Time by Somnambulists, 'Src.
(International Congress of Experimental Psychology) 288, 289
De Vesci, Lady, Case contributed by 136
Dickinson, J., Case contributed by 147
Dobbie, A. W., Case contributed by 16
Double Consciousness, Cases of 5,51,52,83,93,94,260
Downing, C., on Negative Hallucinations 152
Drury, Edward, Experiences in the "Haunted House " at Willington 341, 348
Duplex Personality. (See Multiplex Personality. )
E.
Eardley, Lady, Case contributed by 241
Ebbinghaus, Prof., Remarks on a Case of Amnesia (International Congress
of Experimental Psychology) 287
Index to Vol. V, iii
"Edina," A Series of Automatic Messages' ICO
Ermacora, Dr. G. B. , A Veridical Message through Automatic Writing 299
F., Mrs., Case contributed by 246
Farnane, Mrs. , Case contributed by 105
Fowler, Miss Lottie, An Experiment with 5
Franklin, Prof., Remarks on Hypnotic Phenomena (International Con
gress of Experimental Psychology) 292
Fremont, Mrs., Case contributed by 54
G.
G., Miss, Experiments in Thought-Transference with 21, 111, 182
Goddard, Mrs. F. B., Case contributed by 173
Goodhart, Rev. C, Experiment as to Subliminal Consciousness of the
Lapse of Time 295
Grant, Mrs. S. M., Case contributed by 12
Green, Rev. J. Spurgeon, Case contributed by 221, 239
H.
Hadselle, Mrs. , Case contributed by 69,70
Hale, Bishop, Case contributed by .. 302
Hallucinations, Census of 4,98,211,282,291
„ Negative 144, 152, 210
Harrison, Mrs., Case contributed by 63
Haunted House, Records of a £35
,, ,, at Willington, Accounts of .. 331
Hay, Sir John Drummond, Case contributed by 40,42
Hay, Mrs. R. Drummond, Case contributed by 41
Hayes, F. W., on Psychical Terminology 45
„ J. W., Report on the" Waterford Ghost" :. 227
Henderson, W. H. , Indian Conjuring and Hypnotism 195,196
Hewetson, H. B., Experiments in Hypnotic Am&sthesia 67
Hicks, A., Case contributed by 174
Hitzig, Prof., on a Cure by Hypnotism (International Congress of Experi
mental Psychology) 290
Hodgson, R., on Mr. S. J. Davey's Imitations by Conjuring of Spiritualistic
Phenomena 266
,, Report of Experiments with Mrs. Piper 35,66,200
Holstein, Madame A. de, Case contributed by ... 73
Hoisley, Victor, Experiments in Consciousness 3
Howieson, Mrs., Case contributed by 52
iv Index to Vol. V.
Hughes, F. S., Obituary Notice of
Humphreys, G. E., Case contributed by...
Husk, Exposure of the Medium
Hypermnesic Dreams, F. W. H. Myers on
Hypnotism as an Anesthetic
,, Curative Effects of
„ Indian Conjuring and
, , Legal and Moral Aspects of . . .
„ Discussions on, at International
Psychology
,, in Education
,, Memory recovered by means of
326
109
46
234
16, 67, 68, 293
16, 67, 68, 282, 287, 290, 292, 293
195
293
Congress of Experimental
286-293
292
5,52,260, 286
Measurement of time post-hypnotically 288
Indian Conjuring and Hypnotism 84, 195
International Congress of Experimental Psychology (London) 249, 280, 283
J.
James, Prof., Case of Ansel Bourne 5,51
Janet, Prof., on a Case of Amnesia, &c. (International Congress of Experi
mental Psychology ... 286, 290
Johnson-Roberts, VY\, on '* G." Cases 77
K.
Kendall, Rev. H., Case contributed by 175
Kennedy, J. H., Case contributed by 9
Kingsbury, Dr. G. C., Experiments in Hypnotic Anaesthesia 68
Kingston, Dr., Case contributed by ... 223
Kirk, Joseph (2) Contradictory Nature of Communications Professedly
from the " Other World " 228,231
„ (1) Experiments in Thought-Transference from a Distance
21, 111, 182
L., Mrs., Case contributed by l43
Library, Edmund Gurney, List of Additions 48.128,180,264,295
Li6beault, Prof., Suicidal Mania cured by Hypnotism (International Con- '
gress of Experimental Psychology) 287
Liegeois, Prof., on The Legal and Moral Aspects of Hypnotism (Inter
national Congress of Experimental Psychology) : A case of Poisoning
under the supposed influence of suggestion ' 293
Literary Committee, Evidence collected by—
n ,. Catalogue of Unprinted Cases ... 13, 46, 64, 79, 127,
161,247,311,328
,. " G." Cases 10, 42, 77, 105, 221, 223, 226, 239, 268,
305, 323, 324
Index to Vol V. v
Literary Committee, "L." Cases 9, 12, 21, 35, 38, 40, 41, 52, 61, 63, 68, 69,
70, 73, 86, 108, 109, 111, 134, 136, 137, 138, 141,
143, 147, 172, 173, 174, 175, 191, 192, 204, 205,
206, 207, 239, 241, 242, 246, 250, 251, 252, 253,
258, 269, 270, 276, 302, 322
"M." Cases 5,6,254,299
"M.C1. "Cases 73
"P-" Cases 87
"P. CI." Cases 7b
Lodge, Prof'. Oliver, Address to the Physical Section of the British Asso
ciation 1*"
„ „ Experiments in Thought-Transference 167
„ ,, Report on the Performances of Mrs. Abbott .. ... 168
Lodge, R., Case contributed by a 68
Logue, Mrs., Cases contributed by 75,76
Luther, Prof. F. S., Case contributed by 253
Luys, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 326,327
M.
Marilliee, M., Alleged Apparitions of the Virgin at Dordogne 20
„ Census of Hallucinations ... 291
Marshall, Mrs., Case contributed by ... 108
Massey, C. C, Case contributed by 5
Mathews, Mr., Case contributed by 2
Meetings of the Society, Annual Business 18,198
„ General and Occasional 1, 20, 51, 66, 82, 98,
146, 200, 215, 234, 266, 314
Members, Associates and Honorary Members, Elections 17, 33, 49, 65, 81,
97, 129, 145, 165, 181, 197, 213, 233, 265, 281, 297, 313, 329
American Branch ... 17, 49, 65, 81, 97, 130, 145,
165, 181, 197, 213, 233, 265, 281, 298, 313, 329
Memory, Alternations of. (See Double Consciousness.)
Mendelssohn, Dr., Remarks on Hysterical Amblyopia (International
Congress of Experimental Psychology) 288
Millett, S. H, Case contributed by 207
Moses, Rev. W. Stainton, Death of 314
Multiplex Personality, Phenomena of 5, 51, 83, 93, 94, 260
Mutschlechner, Herr, Case contributed by 108
Myers, F. W. H., Case of "Ed ina" 100
Contradictory Nature of Communications Professedly
from the " Other World " 231
Hypermnesic Dreams . ... 234
Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge in Phan
tasms of the Dead 215
Mechanism of Genius 200
,, of Suggestion 170
Problems of Personality 83, 93, 98, 170, 200, 234
Sensory Automatism 315
vi Index to Vol. V.
N.
Newbold, Miss, Case contributed by .. 268
Nichols, W., Case contributed by 191,192
Non-Informants, Appeal to 235
O., Mrs., Case contributed by 86
Officers and Council, Election of 19,20,166,199
Osler, Dr., Remarks on Hallucinations (International Congress of Experi
mental Psychology) 291, 292
Parker, J. W., Case contributed by 324
Personality, Problems of 5, 51, 83, 93, 170, 200, 234, 260
Pfirshing, Mrs., Case contributed by 192
Phantasms of the Dead, Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge in 215
" Phantasms of the Living," French Translation of 126,352
Photographing an Indian Conjuror (A " Fancy " Sketch) 84
Physical Phenomena, Alleged, Not in the Presence of Paid Mediums 146,
147, 227
,, „ Wood-throwing 146, 147
Piper, Mrs., Experiments with 35,66,200,201
PokitonofT, Madame, Case contributed by 73
Procter, Edmund, Account of Phenomena in the "Haunted House " at
Willington 331, 348
,, Joseph, Account of Experiences at Willington 332,348
Psychology, Congress at Chicago 262
„ International Congress of Experimental in London 249, 280, 283
Psychical Research, Formation of Swedish Society for 144
Quilty, Miss, Case contributed by 226
K.
Raseco, T., Case contributed by 250
Kendall, Vernon II., Case contributed by 172
Kichet, M. Ch., Case contributed by ... 251
Robinson, Mrs. J. R., Case contributed by 138
Index to Vol. V. vii
S.
Sackett, De L., Case contributed by 254
Schiller, C, on Self-Suggestion 261
Schrenck-Notzing, Baron von, Remarks on Hypnotic Phenomena (Inter-
Congress of Experimental Psychology) ... 292,293
,, ,, Thought-Transference Experiments 51
Scott, Capt., Case contributed by 302,303
Selous, Edmund, on " Spirit Photography," &c 237
,, ,, Thought-Transference Experiments 184
Shield, Mrs., Thought-Transference Experiments 189,276
Sidgwick, Mrs., on The Evidence for Clairvoyance 1,20,78
,, ,, „ ,, " Spirit Photography " 82,158,
177, 178, 237
,, ,, Thought-Transference Experiments 266,293
Prof., Census of Hallucinations 4, 98, 211, 282, 291
,, ,, Remarks on Consciousness of the Lapse of Time ... 289
" Slate-Writing " Phenomena, Mr. S. J. Davey's 43, 44, 266
Sloman, Rev. A., Belief of the Church of England as to the State of the
Soul after Death 239
Smith, G. A., Experiments in Thought-Transferance 183, 184, 266
Smith, G. M, , Experiments in Subliminal Consciousnessof the Lapse of Time 320
,, ,, Experiments in Thought-Transference 318
Solovoy, Michael, On Spirit Photography 153,177
Spears, Miss Elsie, Case contributed by 204
Sperling, Dr., Remarks on Sleep and Hypnotism (International Congress
of Experimental Psychology) 288
" Spirit Photography," Alleged Phenomena of 82, 83, 153, 158, 177-78, 237
Stack, Herbert J., Obituary Notice of 263
Subliminal Consciousness of the Lapse of Time 279, 288, 289, 294, 295,
308, 320
Suddick, Dr. S. T., Case contributed by 87-93
Suggestion, Power of 171, 236, 261, 279, 288, 289, 294, 295, 308, 320
Sweden, Formation of a Society for Psychical Research in 144
T.
T., Mrs., Case contributed by 73,74
Table-Tilting and Thought-Transference 318
Taylor, Rev. C. J., Case contributed by 38
Tennyson, Alfred, Lord, on the death of 315
Thompson, G. H., Case contributed by 205,206
Thought-Transference Experiments 21, 51, 111, 167, 182, 184, 189, 191,
266, 276, 293, 318
Titterton, J., Case contributed by 239,240
Todd, E. J., Subliminal Consciousness of the Lapse of Time 279
Tudor, W., Case contributed by 252
Turrell, A. J., Case contributed by 269
viii Index to Vol. V
U.
Underwood, Mr., Experiments in Automatic Writing 218
V., Mrs., Case contributed by 10
Van Eeden, Dr., Suggestion as a Therapeutic Agency (Internationol Con
gress of Experimental Psychology) 287,293
Vavin, Madame, Case contributed by 251
Venman, H., Case contributed by 63
,, On Psychical Terminology 31, 45
W.
Wallace, A. K., On Spiritualistic Phenomena and Mr. S. J. Davey's
Imitations 43,266,267,268
Waterford Ghost, The, F. W. Hayes' Report on
Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Cases contributed by
Wedgwood, Hensleigh, Case contributed by ...
,, ,, Obituary Notice of
Willington, Account of Phenomena in the " Haunted House " at
Withers, J. J., Report on the " Edina" Automatic Messages
... 227
2, 134, 250
... 83
... 96
331, 348
... 101
X., Emile, Case of 52
Z., Lady, Case contributed by 42
No. LXXVL-Vol. V. January, 1891.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
General Meeting 1
Meeting of the American Branch 4
Cases Received by the Literary Committee 5
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases (Continued) 13
Operations Performed Painlessly through Post-Hypnotic Suggestion IB
Obituary lfl
GENERAL MEETING.
The 42nd General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, December 5th, at 8.30 p.m. ; the
President in the chair.
Mrs. Sidgwick read part of a paper on Clairvoyance, which she
provisionally defined as knowledge, such as would ordinarily be
acquired through the senses, acquired supernormally without the use of
the senses, and not by thought-transference from persons present.
She said that she proposed to examine the evidence for clairvoyance,
beginning with cases in which the knowledge of the scene or facts per
ceived might, with little difficulty, be supposed to be acquired from
some distant human mind, cognisant of them ; proceeding to others
where, owing to the want of any. obvious connection between the
percipient and the supposed agent, this supposition became more and
more difficult ; and coming ultimately to cases of what appeared to be
clairvoyant knowledge of things unknown to any human being. In
relation especially to these latter cases, the limits of hypersesthesia and
the possibilities of acquiring knowledge unconsciously through the
senses would have to be considered. In the course of the investigation
the relation of the supposed clairvoyance to time would also be dis
cussed.
As a first instalment of evidence she read three cases. In the first
two, circumstances seemed to point clearly to agency on the part of
those whose surroundings were seen. In the last, knowledge was
voluntarily obtained by a hypnotised person about what was happening
to persons known to him and known to the hypnotiser, but who were
neither going through any crisis nor in conscious relation with the
percipient.
Miss Flintoff said that she had experienced a sort of clairvoyant
dream ; some sailors carrying something which they laid at her feet,
t t
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1891.
and saying he said good-bye to her. She afterwards learnt that a
midshipman whom she knew, and who had said good-bye to her before
starting on his last voyage, had fallen from a mast and been killed
about that time.
The President said that this dream illustrated the importance of
getting a clear idea of what was meant by clairvoyance. There was no
knowledge in the dream of the scene that actually occurred, so that,
though it might be telepathic, it could not be regarded as clairvoyant.
Professor Barrett gave some instances of clairvoyance, either
within his own knowledge or learnt by him from the persons concerned.
In one of them a sick lady had heard from a distant room what the
doctor had said to her mother. Another was a case of a lad in a
hypnotic trance apparently seeing a troopship, the Himalaya, coming into
Kingstown harbour, about the time that it really did do so. The third
was of a lady truly telling him what was the matter with a friend of
his, when he had no accurate knowledge himself on the subject. In
the fourth, information concerning a lost dog was given by a
hypnotised lady, and he had himself investigated the accuracy of her
description.
Mr. Barkwortii said that a definition would be helpful which
should first distinguish clairvoyance from telepathy, as treated in
Phantasms of the Living, and again from thought-transference from
persons present, and again from reading the far past or the future,
which he was inclined to think should ba regarded as a different
phenomenon. It seemed to him that cases where persons, being
hypnotised or in sleep, becoma cognisant of things at a distance when
no crisis is going on might be regarded as cases of one and the same
person being both agent and percipient. He described an instance in
which a person mesmerised in Devonshire accurately described what
was going on in a house in India. He concluded by deploring the
tendency that people had to keep strange facts of this kind to them
selves, and urging that all who could should communicate them to the
Society.
Mr. Matthews discussed the possible extension of hyperesthesia.
He knew of a case where a lady, for several weeks after recovering from
scarlet fever, could hear what was said four rooms off. He did not see
why a line should be drawn between four rooms and four miles or four
hundred miles, nor did he see why a distinction should be supposed to
exist between extension of hearing and extension of sight.
Mr. Myers then, after a brief introduction, read an interesting
case of a vivid mental experience of a person apparently dying. Dr.
Wiltse, when thought by his friends to be dead and only by his
medical attendant perceived to be still breathing slightly, seemed to
Jan., 1891. Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 3
himself to go out of his body and to see what was going on in the
room and outside. To the surprise of all he recovered consciousness,
and at once insisted on describing his experience. What he had
thought he perceived was believed to be correct.
Mr. Victor Horsley, in connection with Dr. Wiltse's experience,
described some experiments he had made on himself when under the
influence of nitrous oxide, originally with a view to explaining reflex
action, but afterwards to observe the dream phenomena accompanying
recovery of consciousness. The first point he tried to observe was
whether simple mental operations were recovered before complex ones.
He would set himself to execute a complex action continuously, then
take the nitrous oxide and observe when the action left off and when it
began again. For instance, he would write rows of the number 3.
Writing the 3's one after the other in a single row he regarded as a
simple action. Writing the 3's alternately in one row and in another as
a more complex action. His hand would stop writing, and then begin
again writing 3's before complete consciousness returned, but it never
began again the complex action of writing them in alternate rows.
He found that dreams which occur as consciousness returns are often
very vivid, but usually they will be completely forgotten unless by
standers make a point of asking the patient what he dreamt before he
has entirely recovered consciousness.
Dr. Wallace said he had bean assistant for many years to the late
Professor Laycock, and had recards of experimants o:i the action of
the mind under anaesthetics, which he should be glad to communicate
to the Society.
Mr. Barkworth asked Mr. Horsley whether he noticed any marked
difference between his earlier and later experiments in his power of
carrying on complex mental actions when under the influence of
nitrous oxide.
Mr. Horsley said that he acquired no additional accomplishment
by practice.
Mr. Pearsall Smith gave an account of a young man dying of
consumption, sent to sea for tho bsnefit of his health. In the excite
ment of a storm the invalid was forgotten, and seemed to die. He
then perceived how tha officer responsible for him began to be worried
about him, and came down and found him dead. In his anxiety to
save the officer trouble, he made an effort, and came back to life.
While in the state of coma he travelled through all his history, and
seemed to know everything that had occurred, remembering things of
early life back to about the age of eight months.
Mr. Sheppard asked whether the circumstances perceived by Dr.
Wiltse were such as he could not have perceived in a normal manner.
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1S91.
Me. Myers replied that the bystanders believed that the incidents
occurred after his eyes were closed.
Mr. Harding mentioned a friend of his who could perceive what
was wrong with the human frame, e.g., he perceived that an arm had
been broken ten years after it was all right again.
MEETING OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH OF THE
SOCIETY.
At the rooms of the Boston Society of Natural History, Tuesday,
December 2nd, 1890, at 8 p.m. At least 250 persons present. The
hall was not large enough to accommodate all who came to the meeting.
Professor William James in the chair.
The Secretary read the records of the previous meeting, which
were approved.
The Chairman stated that so far as concerned membership and the
general increase of interest in psychical research, the results, since the
transformation of the American Society into a Branch of the English
Society, had been highly satisfactory ; the roll of the Branch showed
about 440 members as compared with about 350 at the beginning of
the year. He requested further co-operation in obtaining replies to the
question in Schedule A (Census of Hallucinations—International Con
gress of Experimental Psychology), to which he had already received
between 4,000 and 5,000 replies. Of these about one-tenth were in
the affirmative, but the affirmative replies had not yet been classified in
detail. He said that not so many persons as formerly were joining the
Society through purely sensational considerations, that a deeper
scientific interest was manifest, and that the members generally were
realising that patience and time were required in this branch, as in
other branches of science, to attain reliable results. He pointed out
that the research of the Branch was seriously hampered by lack of
funds, and that many opportunities for experimental investigation
and for immediate inquiries concerning phenomena, while they were
occurring, had been missed for want of money to pay travelling ex
penses, ifec. A slight addition to the funds might be made by increas
ing the dues. Whereas the Associates of the English Society paid
5 dollars per annum, those of the American Branch paid only 3 dollars,
and the larger part of this went to England for payment of Journals
and Proceedings supplied to the members of the Branch. It might be
advisable to raise the assessment of Associates to 5 dollars. Unless
more money was forthcoming as donations also, the work could not be
efficiently continued. He called for suggestions on these points from
the meeting.
Jan., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 5
After brief discussion it was resolved, on the motion of Mr. ¥m.
Fearing Gill, of New York, that the secretary should issue a circular
for the purpose of ascertaining how many Associates would be willing
to pay an annual assessment of 5 dollars.
Professor James then gave an account of a case of "double
personality of the ambulatory type," the subject of which, Ansel
Bourne, was, at the time of his seizure (January 6th, 1887), an
itinerant preacher, 61 years old, residing in Greene, R.I. One morn
ing, whilst apparently in his usual state of health, he disappeared, and
in spite of the publicity which the newspapers gave to the fact, and
the efforts of the police to find him, he remained undiscovered for a
period of two months, at the end of which time he " woke up " at
Norristown, Pennsylvania, where for the previous six weeks he had been
keeping a small variety store, under the name of A. J. Brown, appear
ing to his neighbours and customers as a normal person, but being, as
it would seem, in a somnambulistic condition all the while. Professor
James gave a sketch of Mr. Bourne's life, which presented at least one
other incident of great interest, and went on to describe in detail
how he had conceived that Mr. Bourne, if hypnotised, might give a
full account of his strange absence, including the first two weeks, of
which no account had ever been forthcoming. Mr. Bourne, in his
normal state, recollected nothing whatever between the time of his
disappearance from Rhode Island and his " waking up " in Norristown,
eight weeks afterwards. The result justified the expectation of Pro
fessor James. Mr. Bourne was hypnotised repeatedly by Professor
James and Mr. Hodgson, and gave an account of his doings during his
eight weeks' absence, and verification has been obtained of some of the
incidents which he described as having occurred before his arrival at
Norristown. In the hypnotic trance he called himself A. J. Brown, and
recollected nothing later than going to sleep in the store at Norristown.
[A full account of this case will, it is hoped, be given in the next Part
of the Proceedings.]
The Secretary then read the report by Professor Lodge on sittings
with Mrs. Piper in England—read previously at a meeting in London.
The meeting then adjourned. R. Hodgson.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
M. 15.
The following incident, communicated by Mr. C. C. Massey, seems
analogous to the experiences with Mrs. Piper described in the recently
issued Part of the Proceedings :—
January 18th, 1890.
On April 7th, 1883, died an old and dear friend of mine, by name Francis
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., isol
Paynton Pigott-Carleton (his patronymic was Pigott—ho took the name of
Carleton on his marriage). On April 27th in the same year I took an
old glove of his, given to me for the purpose by his widow, to Lottie Fowler,
putting it into her hand when she went apparently into trance and was
"controlled," and requesting the "control" to get into rapport with the
owner of the glove, and give me any particulars concerning that person.
The "control" gave me a description of the person of my friend which I
thought remarkably good. I then asked for the name. She, or the
"control," seemed to listen for it, and then said, with apparent vexation,
" Oh, it is all nonsense, I can make nothing of it. I hear only ' Pig—Pig—
that is not a name; what do they (sic) mean by 'Pig' 1" It is obvious
that the first syllable of the name "Pigott" is that which would be
accentuated most strongly, and the sound dropping (we may suppose), the
latter half of the name would not be caught by an ear unfamiliar with it.
I had given her not the slightest clue, except the glove, which was not
marked with the name, and she had never seen or heard of my friend, who
lived in the country and was not interested in "Spiritualism," and was quite
unknown to "mediums" ; though his wife had on more than one occasion been
with me to stances. (Not, however, to Lottie Fowler, to the best of my
present memory and belief. ) And I had not mentioned my friend's death
among my Spiritualistic friends, nor my intention to visit her to anyone who
might, intentionally or otherwise, prepare her. C. C. Massey.
M. 16. Crystal Vision.
The following accounts, received through the American Branch,
were taken down by Mr. Hodgson and afterwards signed by the
witnesses. We think the case sufficiently interesting and suggestive
to print, although owing to the refusal of the principal witness to
give any assistance, the evidence is very imperfect. In particular
the evidence respecting the letter from Germany, on which the
question whether the vision was veridical or not depends, is at second
hand, and we are unable to say what the time relation between that
letter, or the incident related in it, and the vision was :—
Account by Mrs. —.
Boston, April 6th, 1889.
On the morning of (some weeks previously), about 10.30, Miss Z. and
Mis3 Y. called upon me and said they wished to try some experiments with
a large Japanese crystal which I possess. It appeared that on the previous
evening they had been talking with some other friends about crystal seeing,
ghost stories, &o., and they desired to make experiments.
Miss Y. looked into the crystal for some time, and saw various scenes
which had no special relevancy, so far as I know, to any actual event. I
had occasion to go out that morning, and left them before Miss Z. had
begun to experiment. On my return, towards one o'clock, I found them
much excited over the visions which Miss Z. had seen in the crystal.
Jan., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research.
She told me that after a short time a round spot of light had appeared
in the crystal ; that this spot expanded, then became blurred, and finally
cleared, when she saw a boat on some water containing a man and a woman.
Their faces were turned, so that she could not see them, but the woman
made some gesture as if bidding adieu. She said that the vision was like a
real scene—the boat moved and the water glittered.
The scene became clouded over completely and then cleared again, when
she saw the outside of a church, the doors opening and the people entering.
This scene again was clouded over, and again cleared, when she saw the
mside of a church. A procession carrying long candles, lighted, moved to
wards the altar with a coffin. The lid of the coffin was lifted, and she saw
the face of a girl whose acquaintance she had made in Germany last year.
She was not a special friend of hers, but her acquaintance had been made at
the house of another friend in Germany.
She was very agitated over the vision ; said she was sure something had
happened.
About a week later I met Mrs. Y., who asked me if I had heard the
account of the vision on the day when it was seen. I told her that I had.
She then informed me that Miss Z. had just received a letter from her
friond in Germany, at whose house she had met the lady whose body she
saw in the vision, containing the news that this very lady had been drowned in
the Lake of Geneva. She had been married and had gone with her husband to
Geneva, and they had gone out rowing on the lake together. They did not
return, and the next morning a search was made, when the boat was found
upside down in the lake. Their bodies were recovered shortly afterwards.
Account by Miss Y.
April mh, 1889.
About two months ago Miss Z. and myself called upon Mrs. for the
purpose of looking into her crystal. I had had some conversation a day or
two before about crystal seeing, and thought I should like to experiment
with one.
We took the crystal into a somewhat dark' room and placed it upon the
sofa, and I placed my eyes close to the crystal ball, with a dark cloth over
my head so that external objects could not be reflected in the crystal.
After looking for some time I saw three cards, two of which I distinguished
as the eight of hearts and the king of hearts, the third was blurred. I also
saw two candles standing, one of which was burning, and the other was
not. This picture disappeared, and aftsr a short time I again saw three
cards—10 of hearts and the king of hearts, and a'spade card. I also saw
two candles lying down, both out.
Miss Z. then looked into the crystal, and after some time had elapsed
she told me as follows :—
She said that a light appeared at the bottom of the ball, which expanded
and assumed a misty appearance. This gave place to a scene in which she
saw a sheet of water. A boat moved across the water. In the front of
the boat was a woman dressed in black, holding a light. She could not see
the face—could see the white of the hand. In the other end of the boat
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1891.
was a man crouched down. The boat passed across the scene several times ;
but afterwards the woman appeared to ba alone in the boat.
After this I looked into the crystal again, and saw the cards which I had
seen at first, but nothing further.
Miss Z. then looked again a long time, and finally gave an exclamation
of surprise. She then told me that she had seen the boat again, that the
scene had clouded over, and a film seemed to move backwards and forwards,
finally passing away, when she saw the exterior of a church, the door of
which opened. The scene changed while she was looking at it, and she saw
the inside of the church. From a side door came some figures in black
which formed in front of the altar. These were followed by six figures in
white carrying a coffin, which they laid down in front of the altar. Bright
dots appeared which became burning candles, which the figures were
holding. The white figures then appeared to raise the coffin higher and
higher up towards the top of the church, as it were, their arms extending to
an enormous length, and the coffin seemed to be brought just under her
facs. The lid of it slid away, and she saw a corpse draped in black, and the
face was that of a girl whom she had known in Heidelberg, Germany.
Afterwards she saw another scene, the figure of a woman kneeling down
with hands clasped. She was dressed in black, but she had white crape
across her forehead. A second figure was that of a man with his hand
extended in a peculiar way ; and a third figure, also a man, dressed chiefly
in light blue, with some other colour. The woman appeared to be kneeling
to the man in blue. Miss Z. said she would not look in the crystal any
more.
We began to look at some books that were lying on the table, and in one
we took up were some old illuminated prints. One of the pictures was that
of which she had just given me an exact description when she detailed the
last scene which appeared in the crystal, viz., the woman kneeling to the
man in blue, with the third figure present with arm extended. We were
both much surprisod, and did not think so much of the first scenes which she
had witnessed in the crystal.
Between a week and a fortnight later, Miss Z. came in to tell me that she
had received a letter announcing the news of the death of the girl whose
corpse she had seen in the crystal "vision." She told me that another
friend in Germany had written to her to say that this girl had been married,
and had gone to Geneva on her wedding trip ; that she and her husband had
gone out on the lake, and had not roturned ; that search was made the next
day, and the boat was found upside down ; that their bodies wore afterwards
recovered.
Mrs. Y. writes : —
April 2Qth, 1889.
On the day on which my daughter and Miss Z. visited Mrs. for the
purpose of looking into the crystal, I heard the details of what they had seen
in the crystal substantially as above narrated, and a week or two later I also
heard of the verification.
Mr. Hodgson adds :—
Miss Z. declines to give any assistance in obtaining further evidence
Jan, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 9
concerning this case. She was made very "nervous" by it, and was said
to have had a veridical psychical experience when she was only a few years
old, which caused her family to object very strongly to her being associated
with anything "psychical."
L. 861. A* P" Borderland. Visual.
From Mr. J. H. Kennedy, through Professor Barrett.
Repeated appearances of an apparition, as in this experience, seem
to be very unusual.
[Dublin], July 20th, 1889.
On the night of the 10th, or rather morning of 11th February, 1884,
while sleeping on a bed formed by chairs in my dining-room, my wife having
been confined the night previous, I was startled by a most remarkable
vision.
My cousin, Miss Amy Flint, passed by the side of my bed several times
from the foot, disappearing at the head, and carrying in her hand, with her
arm stretched out, a virgin's lamp. After she had passed several times I
started up in bed, the thought having struck me that my wife had either
passed away or had become seriously ill. I sat up in the bed in a state of
fear and anxiety, not knowing what to do, fearing if I went up to the bedroom
I might startle my wife and perhaps cause her death, and reasoning to
myself that if anything was wrong the nurse would certainly let me know.
During all this time the figure continued to pass and repass with a solemn,
steady tread. Having watched and listened for some time, my cousin ceased
to pass. I lay down, fell asleep, and thought no more of it, excepting to
go up and inquire about my wife and child early that morning. They were
both doing well, so I dismissed the thing from my mind, till about 10 o'clock,
when my cousin's brother called to say his sister had passed away just at the
time of my vision. In consequence of this extraordinary occurrence I had
the infant called after her, Amy.
I may say my cousin had been for a long time in consumption, but the
day previous appeared much better, went out by herself in good spirits and
visited my sisters. J. H. Kennedy.
Mr. Kennedy does not seem to have mentioned his vision to anyone
before he heard of his cousin's death, and his aunt, to whom he men
tioned it some weeks afterwards, is dead.
He writes later to correct the date given in his first account,
saying that his daughter Amy was born on January 2nd, 1883, and that
his cousin died a few days later, on January 7th, and we have verified
these two dates independently by reference to the Register of Births
and Deaths. The fact of his daughter being named after his cousin
in consequence of the occurrence, as mentioned in his first letter, affords
some independent evidence of the correspondence in the dates of the
apparition and the death.
Mr. Kennedy states that he has experienced no other hallu
cinations, but he recently had a dream of a distressing kind, which
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1891.
made a good deal of impression on him, and which there is some
reason to think was telepathic. In an interview with Professor Barrett
he also related an exporience which occurred to his mother. This was
a veridical " vision or dream " of the sudden death of a friend, and is
of interest as being an instance tending to show a hereditary faculty of
" second-sight."
G. 198.
Mr. Myers writes:— October, 1890.
The four incidents which follow were written out for me in 1888
by a lady whom I will term Mrs. V., who has had other experiences
somewhat similar, which, for private reasons, she does not wish to give.
I am well acquainted with Mrs. V., and with her husband, who has
held an important position in India.
I have been asked by Mr. Myers to describe several manifestations which
I experienced between 1874 and 1885.
(I.) In 1874 I was in India, at a hill station. On the 7th June, between one
and three o'clock in the morning, I woke with the sensation that half my life
had been taken from me (I can only describe the feeling in this vague way).
I sat up and pressed my side in wonder at what was happening. I then saw
most beautiful lights at the end of the room ; these lights gave place to a cloud,
and after a few moments the face of a dear sister, then living (as I believed),
appeared in the cloud, which remained a little while and then gradually
faded away. I became much alarmed and at once felt I should hear bad
news of my sister, who was living in London and had been very ill, though
the last accounts we had received had been better. I told my husband what
had happened, and when a telegram was brought by a friend at 8 o'clock that
morning I knew what its contents must be. The telegram contained the
news of my sister's death during the previous night.
(II.) In 1885 I was present in church at the confirmation of my sister's
youngest boy. I was in the left-hand gallery of the church, the boy in the
body of the church, on the right side. As I was kneeling, I looked towards
the opposite gallery, which was of dark wood. There I saw the half figure of
my sister ; the head and arms outstretched high above the boy, as if blessing
him. For the moment I thought it was impossible and closed my eyes for a
few seconds. Opening them again I saw the same beautiful form, which
almost immediately vanished.
(III.) In India, in the winter of 1881, the husband of an acquaintance was
lying dangerously ill at an hotel about live miles from us. Knowing this, I
went frequently to inquire after him. One particular evening I remained with
his wife some time, as the doctor thought his condition most critical. When
I returned home, about ten o'clock that night, I ordered beef essences and
jellies to be made to send early the next morning.
The night was perfectly calm and sultry, not a leaf stirring. About
twelve o'clock the venetians in my bedroom suddenly began to shake and
knockings were heard, which seemed to proceed from a box under my
Jan., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 11
writing-table. The knocking and shaking of the venetians went on for half
an hour or more, off and on.
During this time I heard a name whispered, A B , of which the
Christian name was unknown to me, the surname being the maiden name of
the sick man's wife. I felt so certain that I was wanted at the hotel that I
wished to start at once, but I was advised not to do so at that hour of the
night. Early the next morning a messenger arrived with a note begging me
to go at once to the hotel, as my friend's husband had died at one o'clock.
When I reached the hotel, she told me how she had wished to send for me
during the night whilst his death was impending. I went at once to stay
with her till after the funeral, and found that the Christian name I had
heard whispered was the name of her brother who had died seven years
previously.
(IV. ) In 1884 we were staying in a villa in the South of France. One night,
soon after we arrived, I went from my room upstairs to fetch something in the
drawing-room (which was on the ground floor), and saw a slight figure going
down the stairs before me in a white garb with a blue sash and long golden hair.
She glided on into a room near the hall door. This startled and impressed
me so much that I afterwards went to the house agent and asked if anyone
had lately died in that house with long golden hair. He replied that an
American lady, young, and slight, with golden hair, had died there a few
months before—in the very room into which I had seen the figure gliding.
Mr. Myers adds :—
I have talked over the cases with Mr. V., and noted his remarks.
In Case I. he remembers being told in the morning of Mrs. V.'s
vision, though at this distance of time he cannot state whether the
telegram announcing the death had arrived before he was told.
In Case II. he was told at once of the incident.
On Case III. he has made and signed the following remarks :—.
" This noise resembled the shaking of the lid of the tin box. I
got up and went to the box, which continued making the noise, to see
if there were rats, but there were none. There were no rats in the
house, and there was nothing in the box. A night-light was burning
in the room. The rattling was continuous—not like what a rat could
produce. It went on again after I had investigated it in vain. This
incident was unique in my experience."
Mrs. V. added in conversation: "The Christian name whispered was
Henry. This brother was not an Indian official, and I had never heard
of him." Mrs. V.'s acquaintance with the lady whose husband was
dying was not an intimate one.
In Case IV. Mr. V. again informs me that he was told at once of
the incident. The name of the villa was La Barormc ; of the house-
agent, Mr. Taylor.
It will be observed that the evidence in each of these four cases has
merits and defects of different kinds.
12 Journal of Society fur Psychical Research. [Jan., isoi.
In Case I.—Indian time being about 5 hours earlier than English
time—it seems probable that the apparition was about 24 hours
after the death. But the case is too remote in time for us to form any
certain conclusion on such a point without further evidence.
Case II. derives interest from being a sort of sequel to Case I., but
is not in itself evidential. Mrs. V. herself believes that she has had
no hallucinations which have not been in some sense veridical.
Case III. is well-attested ; and it may be remembered that in Miss
X.'s experiences, and elsewhere, we have had cases of rattling sounds
coinciding with deaths.
In Case IV. the points by which the figure is identified are some
what scanty. We should be glad to know if there is any other account
of a figure seen in this villa.
F. W. H. M.
L. 862. Dream.
Received through the American Branch.
The amount of correspondence between dream and fact' strongly
suggests a telepathic explanation, Mrs. Grant's husband or mother in
law being the agent.
From Mrs. S. M. Grant, St. Paul's-street, Longwood, Mass.
I was spending the summer of 1866 in Pottersville, near Dublin, N.H.,
with my little boy. I had left at home my husband and my husband's
mother, and had given into their charge a canary bird—a long German
canary, eight years old—and an English ivy. I was very fond of both.
Within a few days of the close of my visit, I dreamed that a strange cat
had got in and eaten my bird, and that my husband had bought another in
its place and had paid five dollars for it. At the breakfast-table the next
morning I told my sister-in-law and her aunt of my dream, and said I
should write home and charge them to be more careful. I did write home
in the course of the day, but, scorning the thought of relying on a dream,
said nothing of it.
Upon arriving at my house in Boston, a few days after, at about five o'clock
on a Saturday afternoon, I followed my husband's mother down into the
dining-room. On the way down I caught sight of the bird and cage hanging
in their accustomed place in the back parlour. In the dining-room I said,
" The bird and the ivy are all right? Do you know that I dreamed that
a cat had killed the bird and "—looking up into her face, " It has," for I saw
by her face it was true. She said, " You go up and see the bird." I went
up and saw that it was quite a different bird, a young one, and of quite
another shape. I returned to the dining-room and went on with the story
of the dream, that my husband had bought another bird, paying five dollars
for it. She said, "I believe you are a witch." Then she said, " But it wasn't
Susie " (a black cat she had had many years). I said, " I knew it was a
Jan., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 13
horrid great grey cat." (It was a Maltese cat that looked as if it had lain
too near the fire and got singed yellow in spots, with a great head and jaw, as
low a type of cat as I ever saw. I had never seen such a cat.) " But," she
said, "I don't know anything about the price of the bird, for it only came
home to-day. "
When my husband came home to tea and was told the story he laughed
and said, "Why didn't you say three dollars and a half, and just hit it?"
I said I didn't care anything about that, that was a small point.
Within a week after this, I was at my chamber window, when I saw the
identical cat of^my dream running along on the sheds. I called to my
husband's mother and said, "Look, there's the cat that killed my bird."
She looked out and said it was, and that she had not seen the cat since till
now. a It seems that the day the bird was killed, as soon as she found the bird
gone, she went out to look for Susie, thinking it must be she who had caught
it. A neighbour seeing her looking about, asked what she was looking for,
and when told, said, "That cat on the fence has just run with a bird," and
she looked and saw this strange cat.
We did not think very much of this story, but I used to tell it from time
to time, and on one occasion, a long time after, when I had told it, my
husband said, "You might as well have the benefit of the whole of it, —the
bird cost five dollars."
(' Stephen M. Grant.
(Signed) < Rebecca M. Grant.
\ Ursula Russell.
The lady who forwarded the above narrative writes about the
percipient as follows :—
Chocorua House, August 2nd, 1888.
Mrs. Grant is one of those who constantly know that a friend is to arrive
a few minutes before the bell rings and they come, or that she will hear from
a friend a day or two before a letter comes. These things have happened,
as she says, "thousands of times," and still happen all the time. She is
very strong and well, and exceptionally cheerful. She takes these things as a
matter of course.
(Signed) Lilias Page.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Continued from the December Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
will be gratefully received.
B L 60. Mrs. Evans describes two dreams: 1. Of her brother being
hurt by a fall from his horse. He was injured in a steeplechase the
previous day. 2. Of her mother lying on the ground with wet garments
Her mother had an accident at a brook the evening before dream, and was
unable to move through wet and heavy clothing. No dates.
B L 61. Visual and Auditory. Borderland.—Mrs. Francis, lying awake
between 1 and 2 a.m., in September, 18§6, hears footsteps ; sees an old man
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1891.
cross the room and leave something in the flue of the stove. She recognised <
him as a former occupant of the house. He is dying at the time of the
appearance. Mrs. F.'s husband (a colliery worker) examines the flue the
next day, and finds a mason's trowel and hammer.
B L 62. Visual. Unknown hand. —Mr. G. Fitzmaurice tells us in 1889
that his grandmother, Mrs. Watkins, saw the apparition of Miss Griffiths
coincidentiy with that lady's sudden death. Date not given.
B L 63. 2nd hand, good as 1st.—Mr. M. Wentworth Forbes is told by
Mrs. Evans that she has had a dream of a telegram " W. Forbes invalided
home." Telegram to that effect arrives in a day or two, referring to narra
tor's brother. 2. Mrs. Evans writes to Mr. Forbes at Cannes expressing
anxiety about some unknown peril concerning him. He U passing through
danger (without knowing it)—two hotels with scarlet fever in them. No
dates given. Recorded July, 1889.
B L 64. Auditory. A(1 Pn —Miss C. B. Roberts relates that when her
brother William was dying in 1858 he constantly expressed a wish to see
another brother—Tom—speaking continually of him during the night. In
the morning Tom arrived from a distance, having heard William's voice
"calling him through the night." Illness presumably unknown to Tom.
Recorded December, 1888.
B L 65. Visual. A'' Pn—Mr. Edward Mackie tells us that when
driving over to see his mother, whom he knew to be seriously ill, he saw her
standing by a hayrick, smiling and waving her hand in a characteristic manner.
On arrival he found that his mother had just died—the death coinciding
precisely with the appearance. Event, January, 1858. Recorded in 1888.
B L 66. Visual. Borderland. —Mr. W. Kershaw sends us a caso which
is certainly no nearer than 3rd hand. Mrs. Burton, known to Mr. K.'s
father, saw her son, dripping wet, walk round her bed about midnight.
The figure sat down, gazed sadly at percipient, and disappeared. Day and
hour noted. The son was drowned at sea at that time. Date : "about 40
years ago." Recorded November, 1888.
B L 67 consists of brief notes upon some recent experiments in thought-
transference (but with contact) by Mrs. Shield. Percipients, the Misses
Gatcombe. Also an experiment in "dowsing" with Mrs. Gatcombe.
Recorded September, 1886.
B L 68. Dream. —Dr. E. Swales describes his having three "frightful
dreams," in one night, of an old friend, Dr. J. Caldwell, fi.N. He saw the
death in the paper next day ; it had occurred early in the day immediately
preceding the dreams. Date, September, 1887. Recorded January, 1888.
B L 69. Visual. A* P" 3rd hand at least.—The Rev. J.J.Dyson
tells us in May, 1887, that a rector's wife told him that her grandmother saw
the apparition of an absent son at the time of his death. The son was abroad
and had not been heard of for many years. No date given.
B L 70. Visual. 3rd hand. —Cases of phantasms coincident with death
told to Mr. J. P. Emslie, by Mr. Churchill, as happening to friends of his.
Narrated to Mr. Emslie in October, 1873. Recorded by Mr. Emslie, April,
1889.
B L 71. Visual. Ad Pn 2nd hand.—The same informant also tells us
that in July, 1876, a servant at an inn described to him that the figure of her
brother passed her in the street at the time of his death through a mining
accident some miles distant.
B L 72. Dream.—Mrs. Matthews dreams of seeing her little daughter
(then at sea, bound for England) and hearing her cry, " Mother, Mother '."
The vessel was partly wrecked on that date, and the child (now Mrs. Gar
Jan., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 15
nett, who confirms) remembers crying for her mother. Date, August, 1852.
Recorded June, 1888.
B L 73, Dreams. 2nd hand. —Mrs. D'Arcy narrates that about 40
years ago a near relative had two dreams : (1) of a sailor brother being
washed overboard, which occurred at the time of the dream. (2) That an
other brother was ill ; she saw his surroundings in her dream. All was
afterwards verified. Recorded October, 1888.
B L 74. Visual. Ad Pn 4th hand, as good as 3rd.—From the same
informant.—The mother of a friend's servant sees an apparition of a brother
then in Australia, and her daughter finds her fainting with fright. The
date was noted and the death afterwards verified. No date given. Recorded
October, 1888.
B L 75. Visual. Collective. Borderland. —Mrs. Swaby informed us
in April, 1888, that " about 3 years ago " she and her husband both saw a
figure of a man, with dark beard and high hat, standing by their bedside in the
night. On comparing impressions, Mr. S. could not recognise the figure, but
Mrs. S. thought it resembled Mr. White, an old friend of her father's, whom
she had not seen for years. She heard a little time afterwards that Mr.
White had died " on or about " the date of the apparition.
B L 76. Visual. A« Pn—Mrs. Rouse, when lying with closed eyes,
saw her brother's face as " a photograph picture," looking like a dead man.
She at once mentioned the circumstance to three nieces, one of whom con
firms. News subsequently arrived of the brother's illness in America. The
impression appears to have coincided with arrival of news to percipient's
mother. Date of vision, June, 1888. Recorded July, 1888.
B L 77. —Mrs. Griffith sends notes and comments on various L cases
(Mrs. Vaughan, Lady Isham, &c.). No definite accounts are given.
B L 78. Dream. Ad Ps—Mr. W. A. Dunn, in Paris, has a vague
dread of some calamity. He goes to bed and dreams that his brother tells
him he is dying ; then he seems to see him dead and wakes himself up, calling
his brother by name. He notes the time, and three days later learns by a
delayed telegram that his brother is dead, the dream and death having
coincided. Date, 1872. Recorded April, 1888.
B L 79. —A letter from among the papers of the late Mr. Benjamin
Coleman, from the late Mr. G. R., dated July, 1868, gives the following
account : Mr. G. R. dreamt, "nearly 20 years ago " [about 1848], that he
was quarrelling with his brother, who lived at a distance, about some build
ings. He learnt afterwards that on this night he appeared to his brother.
The brother and wife were awakened by a rap at the front door. The brother
went down and let Mr. G. R, in. They had a violent altercation about the
building matters, and then Mr. G. R. hurriedly left the house. The wife did
not see the apparition, but she heard the quarrel.
B L 80. Visual. Ad P<>—Mr. J. Kipling relates that in December,
1868, he was leaving his house about 9 p.m., when he saw Mr. Rumford, one
of his workmen, pass. The man did not speak, but Mr. Kipling was confi
dent of his identity. He heard next day that Rumford had met with an
accident about 5 o'clock on the previous day, and had expired about 9 p.m.
Recorded March, 1888.
B L 81. Auditory (Collective) and Visual. Ad P 2nd and 3rd hand.
Narrated by Mrs. Ward. —Miss A. Dickinson and a friend were walking in
Boston, U.S.A. The friend heard someone call " Mary "—her name ; then
both heard it. "Mary" hastened home and saw her fiance standing at a
window. She ran upstairs and exclaimed at his pallor, when he vanished.
A telegram arrived the next morning announcing his death, through typhoid
fever, at that hour. He died, calling her by name. No date given. Re
corded September, 1885,
16 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1891.
OPERATIONS PERFORMED PAINLESSLY THROUGH
POST-HYPNOTIC SUGGESTION.
M. 17.
Mr. A. W. Dobbie, of Adelaide, Associate of our Society, some of
whose accounts of clairvoyance obtained with hypnotised persons have
been printed in the Journal, sends us descriptions from Australian
newspapers of dental operations rendered quite painless by mere
suggestion.
The patient was a young lady who had to have a number of stumps
of teeth extracted, causing great pain, as for some reason she appears
to have been unable to use the ordinary anaesthetics. Under these
circumstances her parents brought her to Mr. Dobbie to be hypnotised.
He did not at first succeed in inducing the hypnotic sleep, but the
difficulty was overcome after a few trials and anaesthesia produced.
The special interest of the present experiments, however, is that at
the time of the operations the patient was not hypnotised at all. Mr.
Dobbie hypnotised her two days beforehand, and told her while
hypnotised that at a certain time she was to have five stumps extracted,
and was to feel no nervousness and no pain or discomfort. The success
of the suggestion was complete. The teeth were extracted, in the
presence of a number of people, without any inconvenience to the
patient, though the operation, owing to the difficulty of getting out one
of the stumps, took about a quarter of an hour. A few days later two
more teeth were taken out under similar conditions, in the presence of
several doctors, with equal success. On both of these occasions Mr.
Dobbie was present, though not doing anything to influence the patient
at the time, but we understand that on a previous occasion she had
gone to the dentist, after receiving the suggestion in the same way,
with her father only, and that the result had been equally satisfactory.
OBITUARY.
We regret much to have to announce the death of Mr. S. J. Davey,
on December 8th, of typhoid fever, at the age of 27 years. Readers
of our Proceedings (Vol. IV.) will not have forgotten the important
work done by Mr. Davey for the Society in demonstrating the extent
to which educated and intelligent people may fail to observe the details
of what occurred when supposed marvels are exhibited before them, and
the extent to which they may consequently mis-report them. The
series of experiments, establishing this conclusion which Mr. Davey
and Mr. Hodgson conducted, are hardly likely to be performed again
with the same thoroughness, and no one who is seriously concerned in
the discovery of truth in this difficult inquiry can afford to neglect the
instruction contained in them,
No. LXXVIL—Vol. V. February, 1891.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. 17
Annual Business Meeting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Meetinss of the Council 19
General Meeting 20
Experimental Thoughtttransference from a Distance, with Apparition of Agent . . 21
Correspondence 31
Balance Sheet for the year 1890 32
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Flynt, William Garnett, 7, Walmer-road, Birkdale Park, Southport.
Goodman, Louis Henry, Bertram House, 170, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
Lytton, The Earl of, G.C.B., British Embassy, Paris.
Rucker, Professor Arthur W., F.R.S., Errington, Clapham Pk., S.W.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 261, Georgia-st., Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
Coles, Miss Alice I., Elmfield, Streatham, London, S.W.
Felton, Alfred, Melbourne, Australia.
Kingsbury, George C, M.D., 3, Brighton-parade, Blackpool.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough.
Lodge, Robert, Great Gearies, Ilford, Essex.
Robertson, Mrs., Nether Scale Hall, Ashby-de-la-Zouch.
Rossi-Pagnoni, Professor G. F., 4, Via Sabbatini, Pesaro, Italy.
Smith, R. Morris, 3,715, Chestnut-street, W. Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Wells, Edmund P., C.E., 26, Cambridge-gardens, N. Kensington, W.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Banker, Mrs. George H.,46, Sterling-place, Brooklyn, NewYork,U.S.A.
Bishop, Mrs. George R., 142, East 18th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Blackmar, Gen. W. W., 70, Commonwealth-ave., Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Browne, Mrs. L. Andrews, 131, Sargent-street, Newton, Mass., U.S.A.
Brush, Miss Helen C, 71, West 47th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Cotton, Mary H., M.D., 200, West 83rd-street, New York, U.S.A.
Crafts, James M., 59, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Crafts, Mrs. J. M., 59, Marlborcugh-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Crosby, Mrs. Eleanor F., Garden-road, Brookline, Mass., U.S.A.
Ferry, D. M., Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1891.
Fields, Mrs. James T., 148, Charles-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Fluhrer, Rev. Charles, D.D., Grand Rapids, Michigan, U.S.A.
Gill, Wm. Fearing, 3, East 86th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Goodnow, H. R., 32, Remsen-street, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
Griggs, Miss B., 25, Fountain-st.,BostonHighlands,Boston,Mass.,U.S.A.
Groot, Mrs. Elizabeth K. de, 8, West 32nd-street, New York, U.S.A.
Hyslop, 223, East llth-street, New York, U.S.A.
Hamblet, Eugene, Dracut, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogg, Mrs. John, 50, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Holbrook, Levi, P.O. Box 536, New York, U.S.A.
Holmes, Mrs. Julia Sadler, Spuyten Duyvil, New York, U.S.A.
Kuhn, Mrs. Hartman, 36, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 142, E. 18th-street, New York, U.S.A. [M.]
Lazarus, Miss Annie, 38, West lOth-street, New York, U.S.A.
Mason, R. Osgood, M.D., 348, West 58th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Millet, Mrs. J. B., 150, Charles-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Newcomb, W. L., Taunton, Mass., U.S.A.
Parke, M. P., 117, West 49th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Perkins, Mrs. E. H, Junr., 5, East 40th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., Forest Hill-street, Jamaica Plain, Mass., U.S.A.
Prescott, Mrs. C. B., Newton, Mass., U.S.A.
Sturtevant, S. C, 105, Washington-street, Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Thayer, Mrs. S. V. R., 191, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Twinch, Frederick, 455, West 57th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Wheeler, Mrs. F. G., 45, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.,U.S.A.
White, James T., 765, Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
White, Mrs. Florence D., 765, Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Winter, Mrs. William, 17, Third-avenue, New Brighton, Staten
Island, New York, U.S.A.
ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING.
The Ninth Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the Society
was held at the Westminster Town Hall on the 30th of January. In
the absence of the President, William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., was voted
to the chair.
The Meeting was informed that during the year 1890 the total
number of Members of all classes had increased from 671 to 707 ; and
that although there were, as usual, from various causes, a number of
resignations at the end of the year, these were nearly made up for by
the fresh proposals for election already received. The American
Branch, at the date of the last information received, numbered 430.
Feb., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 19
An audited statement of the receipts and expenditure for 1890 was
presented, and appears on another page. In laying it before the Meet
ing the Chairman read a letter from the auditor, in which he said, " I
have audited your accounts for 1890, and have pleasure in again
testifying to their system, and the accuracy with which Mr. Bennett
has kept them." The Chairman drew attention to the state of the
Society's finances, which, though satisfactory twelve months ago, had
improved during the year. A statement of current assets and liabilities
at the close of 1890 showed a small excess of the latter, to the amount
aof about £20, due to the unexpected size and cost of Part XVII. of the
Proceedings. As in previous years, in the estimate of the assets, no
account is taken of the value of the Library, or of the stock of
Proceedings.
No further nominations for seats on the Council having been made,
and those sent round on January 8th being just sufficient to fill the
vacancies, the following were declared duly elected :—G. P. Bidder,
Esq., Q.C., William Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., A. T. Myers, Esq., M.D.,
and C. Lockhart Robertson, Esq., M.D.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was specially summoned on January 7th,
when six Members were present, W. Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., occupying
the chair.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting having been read and signed
as correct, the following resolution was considered and unanimously
carried:—"This Council sanctions the proposed augmentation of the
annual subscription of Associates of the American Branch from
three dollars to five dollars, if approved by the American Vice-
Presidents."
The Council met at the close of the Annual Business Meeting on
January 30th. W. Crookes, Esq., F.R.S., occupied the chair at the
commencement, and it was taken by the President on his arrival
shortly after. There were also present : Dr. A. T. Myers, Messrs.
T. Barkworth, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore, H. Babington Smith,
R. Pearsall Smith, and H. E. Wingfield.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
The proceedings at the Annual Business Meeting were reported as
stated above.
The re-election of the Officers of the Society for the ensuing year
was unanimously carried as follows:—President, Professor H. Sidgwick;
Hon. Treasurer, Mr. II. Arthur Smith ; Hon. Secretaries, Messrs. F.
"W. H. Myers and Frank Podmore.
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1891.
The following were co-opted as members of the Council for the
ensuing year in accordance with Rule 17 :—G. W. Balfour, Esq., M.P.,
Thos. Barkworth, Esq., The Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, Rev.
A. T. Fryer, and H. E. Wingfield, Esq.
The Committees were re-elected as follows, with power to add to
their number :—
Committee of Reference.—Professor Adams, Professor Barrett,
Professor Lodge, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Lord Rayleigh, Dr. C. Lockhart
Robertson, Professor Sidgwick, Professor Thomson, and Mr. J. Venn.
Literary Committee.-—Mr. Thos. Barkworth, Rev. A. T. Fryer,
Mr. Walter Leaf, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. F. Podmore, Professoi-
Sidgwick, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
Library Committee.—Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Finance Committee.—Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr. J. Herbert Stack,
and Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor.
Five new Members and nine new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given in a preceding page, were elected. The election of
thirty-eight new Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
By request the name of Mrs. Benson was transferred from the list
of Associates to that of Members ; and the names of Mr. Octavius
Beatty, Mr. F. N. Garry, and Mrs. Tancred were transferred from the
list of Members to that of Associates.
The decease, in December last, of Mr. S. J. Davey, an Associate of
the Society, was recorded. The resignations of twenty Members and
Associates who from various causes desired to withdraw from the
Society, at the end of the year were accepted.
The lists of Corresponding Members and of Honorary Associates
elected for the current year will be given in the next Journal.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 43rd General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, January 30th, at 4 p.m., the
President in the chair.
A continuation of Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on "Clairvoyance" was
read for her by Mr. Podmore. It gave an account of further cases
of clairvoyance, in which what was perceived, being known to some
distant person, might conceivably have been learnt telepathically.
Mr. H. B. Smith then read a translation of a paper by Monsieur
Marillier on some recent apparitions of the Virgin Mary in a
rural parish in France, which had been investigated on the spot by
the writer. After the conclusion of the paper Mr. Smith made a few
remarks, pointing out the resemblance of this case to one referred to
Feb., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 21
in Phantasms of the Living, which occurred at Corano, in Italy, and
was described in the Times for July 31st, 1885. Here, as in the case
described by M. Marillier, the first percipient was a little girl of eleven,
other children to whom she had related her experience following suit,
and having visions more or less similar on the same hillside.
Mr. Pearsall Smith gave an interesting account of some analogous
phenomena which had taken place in the United States.
The President, after some remarks on the difference between
collective and contagious hallucinations, closed the meeting.
EXPERIMENTAL THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE FROM A
DISTANCE, WITH APPARITION OF AGENT.
L. 863
We give here an account of an interesting series of telepathic
experiments made by Mr. Joseph Kirk, of 1, Ripon-villas, Upper
Ripon-road, Plumstead. Mr. Kirk was himself the agent, and a friend
of his, Miss G., was the percipient.
Miss G. has once had an apparently veridical auditory hallucination,1
but, so far as she remembers, no other spontaneous hallucinations
of any kind.
1 This experience was as follows ;—
A cousin of Miss G.'s, "Mrs. 0., had a baby, which, after an illness of a few
days, died about 2 a.m. on November 17th, 1872. Miss 6. had visited the family
almost daily during the illness, and was present the evening before the death, had
nursed the child to relieve the mother, and returned home, not thinking the end was
near. Between 12.30 and 1 o'clock she was suddenly awakened by a voice, which she
at once plainly recognised as that of Mrs. C, exclaiming, 'Jack, Jack, Jack !' So
distinct were the words and tone of voice that Miss G., greatly astonished, sat up in
bed, rubbing her eyes and looking about her room to convince herself that she was
really awake.
"Mrs. C, shortly before the hour mentioned, being much exhausted with nursing,
had lain on the bed, the baby meanwhile being entrusted to the care of the husband.
Suddenly, Mrs. C. awoke with the impression that the baby was dying, and in her
alarm sprang out of bed, exclaiming to her husband, ' Oh, Jack, Jack, Jack, you are
letting the baby die ! '
" Mrs. C, at this distance of time, does not remember that she was dreaming of
Miss G., or that the latter was in any way mixed up with the impression that the
baby was dying."
The above account was written out by Mr. Kirk, after hearing Mrs. O.'s account,
and the following confirmation is signed by Mrs. C. :—
" I certify that the above account is correct, that I distinctly remembered the
circumstances, and recalled them voluntarily to Miss G. 's recollection. "
Mrs. C. adds that her husband also clearly remembers the circumstance.
Miss G. says :—
"I well remember visiting the family during the illness of the baby, and the part
I took in sympathising with Mrs. C. and helping to nurse the child, but hearing the
voice had quite escaped my memory until recalled to it by Mrs. C."
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., isoi.
Mr. Kirk wrote on May 29th, 1890 :—
(1) Four years ago, when I began the study of telepathic phenomena, I
made an experiment in impressing a lady who resided not quite half a mile
distant. The lady in question is Miss G. She once told my wife and
myself that she always sleeps with her head muffled in the bedclothes, and at
the moment it occurred to me to try a hallucinatory experiment on her. I
determined to enter her bedroom and pull the clothes from her face, but as
I received no intimation from her that anything had happened to her I
decided that I had failed.
(2) I did not try again at that time [on account of illness but] about three
months ago I again tried a similar experiment, seemingly without effect.
But since Miss G. mentioned to me the telepathic incident between her
self and Mrs. C. she has told me, voluntarily, of two curious things that
she had experienced, but .which she had not mentioned to anyone. These
two incidents proved to be the success of my two experiments!
On the first occasion she was awakened by feeling the bedclothes being
pulled away from her face. She felt the action as though it were being
physically done, but was too frightened to open her eyes, having the sensa
tion that there was a presence near her bed. Presently the feeling of fright,
or uneasiness, passed, and after a time she went to sleep.
On the second occasion (in her own house) the same performance was
enacted, but this time it was not accompanied with fear, as she opened her
eyes and looked steadily around to see if anyone had entered her room.
There was no presence visible, however, and she quickly went to sleep. She
had not even a suspicion that it was I who had been subjecting her to
experiments. She had simply considered them very strange incidents, and
was much puzzled over their occurrence.
(3) I have twice since succeeded in impressing her.1 The first time was
about three weeks ago (about the beginning of May), and the second on
Sunday night, the 11th inst. On the first occasion she had a distinct feeling
that I was standing by her bedside and the presence was so palpable (though
unseen) that she felt the pressure on the bedstead. Miss G. describes this
pressure and presence as like those one feels when someone is leaning on the
back of an easy-chair in which you are sitting.
(4) The second impression was very rapid and realistic in its action.
On the Sunday night mentioned I was reading (not for the first time) Mr.
Myers's introductory remarks to his paper "On Recognised Apparitions
Occurring more than a Year after Death." About 11.30 I began to feel tired,
suddenly threw myself on the couch, and immediately imagined myself
walking up the road where Miss G. resides and, without pause, opened the
front gate, passed in, and went bodily (so to speak) through the front door,
quickly mounted the series of stairs to her bedroom door, which I opened
(though locked) with great energy and noise. I did not, however, stay a
second, as I was too mentally tired to continue the experiment.
It was not until the following Saturday (we see her nearly every day) that
Miss G. suddenly asked me, "Did you try an experiment on me on Sunday
1 Mr. Kirk cannot say whether any unsuccessful attempts were made during this
period.
Feb., i89i.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 28
night last V " Why do you ask V " Because, between 11 and 12 o'clock, I
heard my bedroom door opened with a bang. I seemed to see the door
opened at the same moment. " J
Mr. Kirk wrote again on July 7th, 1890 :—
(5) I have to inform you that from the 10th to 20th June I tried a telepathic
experiment each night upon Miss G. I did so, as suggested by you in
your letter of June 3rd, without her knowledge, as a preliminary to entering
upon experiments with her under conditions of expectancy and the recording
of dates and hours. Each trial had for its object the rendering myself visible
to her—simply visible. With the exception of one—which was made one
afternoon from my office in the Arsenal—each trial took place at my house
between the hours of 11 p.m. and 1 a.m.
Up to June 23rd I heard nothing direct from my "subject." Indirectly,
however, I learnt that my influence was acting rather strongly. Each time
Miss G. came to my house, while the experiments were in progress, she
complained of being kept sleepless and restless from an uneasy feeling which
she was unable to describe or account for. On one night, so strong was thin
uneasy feeling, she was compelled to get up, dress herself, and take to some
needlework, and was unable to throw off the sensation and return to bed
until 2 o'clock. I made no comments on these complaints—never dropped
a hint, even, as to what I was doing. Under these circumstances it seemed
probable to me that, although my influence was telling upon her, to her dis
comfort, I had not succeeded in the object of my experiments. Supposing
this to be the case, and that I was only depriving her of rest, I thought it
best to discontinue the trials for a time.
I felt disappointed at this apparently barren result. But, on June 23rd,
an agreeable surprise was sprung upon me, in that I learnt I had most
effectually succeeded on one occasion—the very occasion on which I had
considered success as being highly improbable—in presenting myself to Miss
G. As you will find in her statement, herewith enclosed, the vision was
most complete and realistic. The trial which had this fortunate result was
that I had made from my office and on the spur of the moment. I had been
rather closely engaged on some auditing work, which had tired me, and as
near as lean remember the time was between 3.30 and 4 p.m., that I laid
down my pencil, stretched myself, and in the act of doing the latter I was
seized with the impulse to make a trial on Miss G. I did not, of course,
know where she was at the moment, but, with a flash, as it were, I transferred
myself to her bedroom. I cannot say why I thought of that spot, unless it
was that I did so because my first experiment had been made there.2 As it
happened, it was what I must call a " lucky shot," for I caught her at the
moment she was lightly sleeping in her chair—a condition which seems to
be peculiarly favourable to receiving and externalising telepathic messages.
The personal appearance of the apparition is of considerable interest, and
is important in that it affords direct proof that an agent, when experimenting,
i This is not quito accurate. See percipient's letter, p. 29.
" The first experiment was on the night of the 10th, the successful experiment on
the afternoon of June iith (Wednesday). Mr. Kirk tells us that he made a note at
the time on his blotting-paper, of day and hour.
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research.. [Feb., 1891.
is, in some undefinable way, conscious of his outward aspect. Thus, the figure
seen by Miss G. was clothed in a suit I was at the moment wearing, and was
bareheaded, the latter as would be the case, of course, in an office. This
suit is of a dark reddish-brown check stuff, and it was an unusual circumstance
for me to have had on the coat at the time, as I wear, as a rule, an office coat
of light material. But this office coat I had, a day or so before, sent to a
tailor to be repaired, and I had, therefore, to keep on that belonging to the
dark suit.
I tested the reality of the vision by this dark suit. I asked, " How was
I dressed 1 " (not at all a leading question). The reply of Miss G. was,
touching the sleeve of the coat I was then wearing (of a light suit), "Not this
coat, but that dark suit you wear sometimes. I even saw clearly the small
check pattern of it ; and I saw your features as plainly as though you had
been bodily present. I covld not have seen you more distinctly."
Miss G.'s account of this is :—
June 28tfi, 1890.
A peculiar occurrence happened to me on the Wednesday of the week
before last. In the afternoon (being tired by a morning walk), while sitting
in an easy-chair near the window of my own room, I fell asleep,. At any
time I happen to sleep during the day (which is but seldom) I invariably
awake with tired uncomfortable sensations, which take some little time to pass
off ; but that afternoon, on the contrary, I was suddenly quite wide awake,
seeing Mr. Kirk standing near my chair, dressed in a dark brown coat, which
I had frequently seen him wear. His back was towards the window, his right
hand towards me ; he passed across the room towards the door, which is
opposite the window, the space between being 15ft., the furniture so
arranged to leave just that centre clear ; but when he got about 4ft from the
door, which was closed, he disappeared.
My first thought was, " had this happened a few hours later I should
have believed it telepathic," for I knew Mr. Kirk had tried experimenting
at different times, but had no idea he was doing so recently. Although I
have been much interested by his conversation about psychical phenomena
at various times during the past year, I must confess the element of doubt
wmdd very forcibly present itself as to whether telepathic communication
could be really a fact ; and I then thought, knowing he must be at the office
at the time I saw him (which was quite as distinctly as if he had been really
in the room), that in this instance, at least, it must be purely imaginary, and
feeling so sure it was only fancy, resolved not to mention it, and did not do
so until this week, when, almost involuntarily, I told him all about it. Much
to my astonishment, Mr. Kirk was very pleased with the account, and asked
me to write it, telling me that on that afternoon, feeling rather tired, he put
down his pen for a few moments, and, to use his own words, " threw himself
into this room." He also told me he had purposely avoided this subject in
my presence lately, that he might not influence me,but was anxiously hoping
I would introduce it.
I feel sure I had not been dreaming of him, and cannot remember that
anything had happened to cause me even to think of him that afternoon
before falling asleep.
Keb., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 25
Mr. Kirk wrote on August 1st, 1890 :—
Since my last communication to you, I regret to say I have been so unwell
that I have not been able to keep up a systematic course of experiments on
Miss G. Of the attempts I did make, only one proved to be a decided
success, and that I now proceed to describe.
l6) On the night of July 10th I resolved that Miss G. should see a
part of the room in which I was, and which came within the front range of
my vision. While studying, or reading, I usually draw a couch close to my
table, on one end of which I place a lamp with a large cardboard shade.
The latter keeps the upper part of the room in shadow, but not so deep that
I cannot distinctly see every article in the room. I began at 11.30, but
quickly found that, although I endeavoured to focus the various articles of
furniture, &c., immediately in front of my gaze, in a kind of bird's-eye view,
the lamp obtruded itself as the most conspicuous object. From the reclining
position I take on the couch, the brightly illumined white inner rim of the
shade that is farthest from me is always visible without there being any
necessity for turning my eyes on the shade. Z7uts, during the first part of the
experiment the lamp was obtrusicely prominent. Try as I would, I could not
make its bright light blend with its surroundings. The diameter of the Shade,
at its widest part, is a trifle over 13 inches. This part of the experiment
occupied from 11.30 to 11.45.
At 11.45 I became tired of the persistent obtrusiveness of the bright
light of the lamp, and held up my right hand between it and my eyes. The
relief was immediate, and the objects I wished to see stood out clearly,
though still in shadow.
Percipient's Account :—
July 11th, 1890.
Last night, about 11.35, having been in bed only a few minutes, I was
startled by seeing at the end of the room, near my bed, a bright streak about
ten or twelve inches in length. 1 immediately raised myself on my left elbow
and watched it for about half a minute (it may have been rather less). It had
the appearance of a reflection with a deep shadow above.
Knowing Mr. Kirk intended trying telepathic experiments from time to
time, I wondered whether it could proceed from that, but it appeared so real
that I got up to see if it were caused by a light shining through the window.
However, it was not moonlight, the venetian blinds were down, and the
street gas-lamps are too far aboce and below the house to throw a light on the
wall opposite the window ; so I concluded it must be telepathic. After lying
down again, I did not see it, but for the next few minutes saw several
momentary glimpses of a dimly-lighted room, or perhaps I had better say
large patches of shadow and not very bright light.
Mr. Kirk continues later in August :—
(7) I have to record another successful experiment with Miss G., which,
in my opinion, conclusively demonstrates the arbitrary power of a strong
light.
On Sunday, the 3rd inst., I intimated to Miss G. that I should probably
make an experiment on her in object-transference that night. I ascertained
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1891.
from her that she would most likely retire about 11 o'clock, and at that
hour I began operations. In the window recess of my room stands a small
octagon-shaped table, with flowers in pots. Against these pots I placed a
rectangular piece of white-faced cardboard (17in. by 12in.), on which are the
letters " C A " in black chalk. (You have heard of this cardboard in former
experiments.) [See experiments with other percipients described below.]
At starting, I used the bull's-eye lantern. With the exception of the light
thrown by the latter, the room was in complete darkness. The lantern I
stood on the end of the dining-table, facing the cardboard, the distance being
about two yards. The cardboard and letters were clearly defined. After a
short gaze, the board and letters became, as usual, blurred ; my eyes became
unsteady, while the black letters ran into each other, and danced and whirled
about like fiery clouds, and I had to blink my eyelids with great rapidity to
catch even momentary glimpses of the black outlines of the letters. This
had lasted about five minutes when the light of the lantern suddenly
collapsed and I had to suspend the operation to raise the wick with a pin.
This done I began again, but getting only the same effect of fiery clouds.
After two or three minutes the lantern went quite out and then I turned up
the light of my lamp for a third trial—same effect of fiery clouds. In a
few minutes the lamp also collapsed, the servant having forgotten to
renew the oil. I then lit a candle (note this specially), and began a fourth
trial. Though the light was not so glaring as the bull's-eye lantern and that
of the lamp, the effect was the same—fiery clouds—probably due to my eyes
being tired, and the glare of the clouds being impressed on the retina from
the former trials. Presently I put out the candle, and lit the gas—same
effect of fiery clouds. To the end of the experiments I alternately tried
both the candle and gas.
Percipient's Account :—
Augwt 1th, 1890.
Last night, at 11.5, a few minutes after lying down, I saw a luminous
appearance in the room, which soon settled into the form of a square or,
rather, oblong. I at once thought, "I am now going to see one of the pictures
in Mr. K.'s dining-room," but was disappointed, the only change which
occurred was a wavy, cloud-like movement within the square. Twice during
the time (about 20 minutes) which it remained more or less visible I very
distinctly saw a small, bright flame as of a candle burning, a short distance
from the square. Before lying down I had darkened the window as much
as possible, to exclude the light of the moon, which was shining full upon it,
as I thought it probable Mr. K. would try an experiment during the evening.
At a later date Mr. Kirk continues :—
(8) This experiment was made on Miss G. whilst she was staying at Ilfra-
combe, about 230 miles from here by rail. It was arranged that I should make
one trial on the night of the second Sunday of her stay at Ilfracombe, time
11 o'clock. I decided to transfer a disc of light, in the hope that it would
appear as a full moon. I prepared for this by cutting a circular piece, six
inches in diameter, out of a sheet of stiff black paper ; the frame of the paper
I fastened over the rectangular cardboard, already mentioned, having first care
Feb., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 27
fully prepared the surface with white chalk. This produced a disc of clear white
ness. I then placed the object in the bay window of my dining-room, standing
it against the venetian blind, behind two white window-curtains, which occupy
the central part of the bay. Two other white curtains hang in the bay,
one on each side, making four curtains. I now concentrated on the white
disc the light from two bull's-eye lanterns. These stood on a small table,
about twelve inches from the disc, the effect on the eyes being almost pain
fully bright. The reflection from the disc illumined every part of the room
as though it had been coated with luminous paint. The two curtains in
the centre of the bay were, especially, clearly defined. Though the latter,
of course, came within the range of my vision, they did not enter into
it as objects to be transferred. My attention was solely directed to the
transfer of the brilliant disc. At the time appointed I put out my lamp
and began the trial.
From the latter part of the report [by percipient, see below] it will be
noticed that, on two nights on which I had experimented on Miss G.,
without her knowledge, I had succeeded in causing a manifestation. These
are the only occasions, however, on which I have succeeded.
[In answer to our inquiries we learn that Mr. Kirk made an attempt on
every night—13 or 14—of Miss G. 's stay at Ilfracombe, but he afterwards
found that on several of these occasions she had not yet retired to her room . ]
Percipient's Account :—
Ilfracombe, August 18th, 1890.
Almost immediately on lying down last night, a few minutes after eleven,
with my face towards the wall, I saw a very bright reflection as if a strong
light were shining through a bay window and clearly showing the light and
shade of hanging curtains. Although I expected Mr. K. to experiment, this
was so bright and sudden that I raised myself in the bed to see if any
light could possibly be coming through the window of my room ; but it
certainly did not. My bedroom is on the second floor ; the window flat and
rather small, so, as the night was dark, I could only just discern it. Being
Sunday the street (High-street) was much darker and quieter than usual.
Lying down again I still saw it, thinking, "What can he be trying to
transfer ? " But it was only for a very short time ; being tired, I quickly fell
asleep.
August 19th.
This morning I received a note from Mr. K., asking me to make a
memorandum of any manifestations, and saying he had not confined his
experiments to Sunday night. This reminds me that on two nights during
the previous week I saw faint, cloudy lights, but would not notice them,
understanding that Mr. K. did not intend experimenting during the first
week of my visit here.
Mr. Kirk continues :—
Since the experiments at Ilfracombe I have tried to transfer coloured
discs to Miss G., but the results were very indefinite, if not entire failures.
I may add that Miss G. has, on several occasions lately, tried me as a
percipient, but I have proved myself almost quite unimpressionable.
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1891.
(9) I will now record a final experiment, and one that was not only success
ful but exceedingly beautiful. I was determined, if possible, to make Miss
G. see a full moon, and I set up the usual white disc, with a small circular patch
of dark blue paper in the centre of it. As the light I threw on the discs in
the previous experiments seemed too strong for the purpose, I used a milder
light, by placing the lantern at a considerable distance away from the disc.
Miss G. 's verbal description to me is that the luminous clouds (caused by
the small circular patch in centre of disc) would expand and pass away,
and then gradually the whole would return and settle into a luminous disc ;
that then the disc would expand and pass away, the process being several
times repeated. It was, she says, more like dissolving views than anything
else. And that is exactly what they were ; for I designedly, every few
seconds, slowly closed and opened my eyes, the appearance of the vanishmg
disc and its reappearance presenting to me the phenomenon of a dissolving
view with each movement of my eyelids.
Percipient's Account :—
September 29th, 1890.
About 11.15, saw luminous clouds, which several times concentrated into
a bright disc about seven inches across. The circular form was only momen
tary, but reappeared several times, lasting altogether about five minutes.
Mr. Kirk continues :—
I have now to declare that, during these experiments Miss G. has not
had, beforehand, the slightest idea of what I intended to transfer.
I may add that Miss G. and myself are quite alive to the danger of
mistaking " floating lights " before the eyes, common to most persons, for
the real things seen. I am particularly subject to these floating lights, and
it is for this reason, when Miss G. has tried me as a percipient, I have taken
what I saw as failures. But this is not so with Miss G. Excepting when she
makes a decided pressure on her eyeballs, she is entirely free from such lights.
Besides, even under pressure of the eyeballs, I have never yet heard of any
one who has seen perfect squares and discs. The precautions I have taken in
this matter preclude the possibility of any mistakes having been made.
I may conclude by telling you that I have only succeeded once in making
myself visible to Miss G. since the occasion I have already reported, and that
had the singularity of being only my features—my face in miniature, that
is, about three inches in diameter.
In a letter dated January 19th, 1891, Mr. Kirk says as to this last
appearance :—
Miss G. did not record this at the time, as she attached no importance to
it, but I noted the date (July 23rd) on my office blotting-pad, as it was at
the office I was thinking of her. I say " thinking," because I was doing so
in connection with another subject, and with no purpose of making an
experiment. I had a headache, and was resting my head on my left hand.
Suddenly it occurred to me that my thinking about her might probably in
fluence her in some way, and I made the note I have mentioned. x
1 Mr. Kirk enclosed the piece of blotting-paper with the note.
Feb., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 29
This is an instance in which a visible result followed in the absence of an
experiment by intent. I may mention that Miss G. was seated in the same
chair and in the same spot as when she had her first vision of me.
The following letter from Miss G. adds some important points to
the evidence :—
January 16th, 1891.
Dear Mr. Kirk,—Reading the proof as you requested, I find you have
made a slight error in recording the account numbered "4." You say, "I
heard the door opened with a bang." You have evidently misunderstood me.
I quite distinctly remember the impression. I was lying with my face muffled
in the clothes (a very frequent habit of mine), when I suddenly saw a door
very quickly opened, and seemed to get a momentary glimpse of the space
beyond. In telling you about it, most probably I said it opened as if with a
bang, to make you understand how rapidly it all occurred.
In Cases 1, 2, and 3 I do not remember the dates, as at that time I had
no idea you were trying experiments on me, and I only kept the impressions
in mind from their being so strangely realistic.
Of account " 5 " I made no memo until you asked me to do so, but I feel
certain the date given by you is correct, as the incident made so deep an
impression on me, being so remarkable an experience that it was constantly
recurring to my mind, and I could not have made any mistake about the
time. I fully endorse all your other accounts, and may just ask you to tell
Professor Sidgwick that I never had the faintest idea of what you intended
trying to transfer, whether the time for doing so was arranged or otherwise.
In sending the proof of above to Mr. Kirk for his revision we asked
him several questions as to (a) how the correspondence of dates was
ascertained ; (b) the number of unsuccessful attempts to impress Miss
G. which he had made ; and (c) whether written records had been
made by himself and Miss G. before comparing notes.
As regards (a), the dates of experiments 1, 2, and 3 are known
only approximately, and their coincidence is assumed on the ground of
the close correspondence between the kind and number of the impres
sions which it was attempted to produce and those experienced. The
evidence as to coincidence in the remaining cases appears from the
narrative and from Miss G.'s letter.
As regards (6), Mr. Kirk has not recorded all his experiments and
cannot in all cases say how many failures may have occurred. He has
records of seven failures which seem to have occurred in July (see
experiment 6). These were all connected with attempts to render him
self visible to, or make auditory impressions on Miss G. He distinctly
remembers one, and only one, failure of which he did not make a
memorandum. Further information is given in the narrative and
footnotes.
As regards (c), he says that Miss G. did not always write her
account of her impressions until after they had talked them over
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1891.
together (nor—as will have been observed—did he do so himself), but
that in these conversations he has always been very careful to put no
leading questions, and to draw out all that she had to say before telling
her what impression he had tried to produce.
Mr. Kirk has also sent us a record of another series of experiments in
thought-transference of objects—or, as he prefers to call it in such
cases, " object-transference."
These experiments were carried on with other percipients than Miss
G., in February, 1890, and appear to have been very carefully planned
and recorded, and it seems that all due precautions were taken in carry
ing them out, but he was, unfortunately, not able to make a large
number of them. A certain amount of success was obtained, especially
with a lady as percipient who has had some spontaneous hallucinations,
seemingly veridical, and has seen an apparition in a " haunted house."
Mr. Kirk has experimented especially in the transference of light, with
some interesting results. In two instances when the diagram to be
transferred was hung up on a black board in a dark room and
illuminated by a bull's-eye lantern, which threw an oval light on the
paper, an oval light was seen and not the diagram. It appeared in
other cases, too, that the parts of the object that were most strongly
illuminated were seen most clearly by the percipient. In one experi
ment, when some black letters—C A—on a white ground were looked
at by the light of the bull's-eye lantern and the light did not cover both
letters, the A being partially in shadow, the result was that only
the form of the C was transferred, described as a "semi-circle," which
appeared luminous to the percipient.
Mr. Kirk thought that the objects were more or less distinctly
seen by the percipient according to the steadiness or unsteadiness of
the agent's gaze. Thus, when a gold watch was looked at by three
agents, the percipient saw a circle of white light surrounded by a sort
of zigzag penumbra, the indistinctness of outline being, perhaps,
the result of the watch appsaring blurred to the agents after they had
looked at it for some time.
Mr. Kirk hopes that this account of his experiments may lead
Members of the Society to make similar ones —a hope in which we
cordially concur.
Feb, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 31
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
January 5th, 1891.
Dear Sir, —As comment is invited on matter appearing in our Journal
I crave space for a few words in support of Mr. Money's remarks on the
unsuitable nature of the word " hallucination " as descriptive of the whole of
the apparitional phenomena recounted in Phantasms of the Living, the
Journal, and elsewhere. Whatever signification the leaders of psychical
research may attribute to the word "hallucination" and its derivatives, it
seems to me that not only to the "man in the street," but also ad clerum it can
only be understood to mean something deceptive or erroneous, i.e., without
basis in reality except, per se, as merely ' ' occurring. " Hence I cannot under
stand the term " veridical hallucination " (a term often used in the Society's
articles). How can that which is essentially "deceiving" be "truth-telling"?
I could understand a veridical "image" or "presentment"; and it seems
beyond doubt that many of the occurrences classed by the Society for
Psychical Research under the head of hallucinations have a true relation
(more or less accurate) with some "thing," or event. Such phenomena,
whether subjective or pseudo-objective, I do not consider are properly classed
as hallucinations, a term, as I said before, conveying the idea of falsity
(deception) in its usual significance, even to Psychologists.
A Member of our Society, Mr. F. W. Hayes, suggested a word to me
some time ago, which appears (to me) more suitable, viz., " Pseudo-Soma,"
which would well designate (I think) any entity having visible form,, whether
human, animal, or inorganic,—a something which seems to be "the body"
which it is not. I am, dear Sir, yours very truly,
H. Venman.
20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
[I am unable to see what advantage the word psendo-soma, even if other
wise convenient, would have from Mr. Venman's point of view, since his
sole objection to the word hallucination seems to be that it conveys the idea
of falsity, which the word " pseudo-soma " conveys still more definitely.
Nor can I understand Mr. Venman's criticism of the term veridical
hallucination ; since what is " essentially deceiving " in one aspect may be
truth-telling in another. If I see my friend come into the room at the time
of his death I receive a false impression of his bodily presence, though I
may afterwards find that there was a true relation between the appearance
and the death. The analogy of dreams may, perhaps, make this clearer, since
dreams are commonly recognised as deceptive—in the sense that the dreamer
is not really in the surroundings of which he dreams—even when the dream
conveys true information. The same kind of deceptiveness attaches to
hallucinations of the senses, whether veridical or not. A "truth-telling"
dream is a familiar idea : we miy regard hallucinations as waking dreams.
However, I may take this opportunity of saying that, in the last edition
of the forms used in collecting for the "Census of Hallucinations," I have
avoided using the word hallucination in the sense to which Mr. Venman and
others object, in order that the strongest advocate of quasi-material ghosts
may be able to use these forms without feeling alienated by anything in the
instructions to collectors.—H. S.]
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1891.
w
o
P3
<
CO
o
I—I
W
o
CO
o
H
H
i—i
Q
O
CO
o
00
03
I
CO
1
I
o
g
Eh
1
J.
g
I
P3
IN SO O © © » o oo:»N»ao
?D OS »-< 00 »TS WO © lO OS CO .* CO
1'
OCOOOCC i
»-H rH rH
CO t*-
I-H
CO
s
a'
o t g
SCC 5
.3 ooa
: s
be
:s$.m
oco
as oq — o a
M
PH (I,
'tisJ*
-C ;'t3
e bo
o.B
's
I
3 h .2 o 2 o
T3 gj T3
bO CD o ¥
— <" -h a»
J!-] Ah
pa
o
'I a
5 1
be
.5 »
T3 bp
"8 a I
srsoS
at- o^i
£o43 KgCS
o v-q E-g <o o
tfee
4J O rt
PhPhO
f-
5 E-
: : 1 s
o
Hoc
g
*J
: •> 0
*4*
8 » J3
00 '^
a a
:&* t
W.9 t1t
o
T! '"3 <U
tJ
s © 5 ~ OQ
<D <U c3
«£M ..->
a2 u
ooo
OOfN
8
OO
CM CO
rH cq
CO CO
o *^» cscs 1
CSQO (NCO
,*-*
(N-*
CO o
NH |
»H 1
B B
Eh 02
oa
at d c8
.2 CD «
" 3 .
; M c3 o
aSAnO
MP
o -
H
^3
* :,2 5 8
la£Ms
0 C 0» p^
Sol
§3323
* c h 3 tg
1-1 a s S o
aQ o
.ofi .
£ 93
Vt « -
111
<:
d
Q
O
a
H
W
Ph
o
1
c
3
5
1
I
« J
:::
r^
'o/)
sS >t
J3
T3
:z:
s
t: #
c3
N
t*
rt
J2
No. LXXVIII.—Vol. V. Maboh, 1891.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. paoi
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates 33
Meeting of the American Branch 34
Cases received by the Literary Committee 85
Correspondence :—
Mr. S. J. DaTey's Experiments 43
" The Religio-Philosophical Journal " 45
Hallucinations 45
Notes :—
" Annales des Sciences Psychiques " 45
Exposure of the Medium Husk . . 46
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases 46
Supplementary Library Catalogue 48
The following lists of Corresponding Members and of Honorary
Associates for the current year were omitted from the February Journal
for want of space.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Alexander N. Aksakof, 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beaunis, 28, Rue de Courcelles, Paris.
Professor Bernheim, Hdpital Civil, Nancy.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia College, New York, U.S.A.
Max Dessoir, 27, Kothener Strasse, Berlin, W.
Dr. Fere, 37, Boulevard St. Michel, Paris.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann, Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
Professor Pierre Janet, Bourg-la-Reine, France.
Mahadeva Vishnu Kane, B.A., Dharwar, Bombay.
Professor Kovalevsky, The University, Kharkof, Russia.
Dr. A A. Liebeault, Nancy, France.
Professor J. Liegeois, Nancy, France.
Professor C. Lombroso, 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
Hans Natge, Berlin-Tempelhof, Berlin.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. F. Freiherr Goeler von Ravensburg, 4, Nettelbeckstrasse,
Berlin, W.
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1891.
Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15, Rue de l'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenk-Notzing, 29, Herzog-Wilhelmstrasse,
Munich.
H. Taine, Menthon St. Bernard, Haute Savoie, France.
Professor N. Wagner, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
Curtis, Miss Mary, Laugharne, St. Clears, South Wales.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 4, Upper Vernon-street, London, W.C.
Grubb, Edward, M.A., Rye Croft, Fulford-road, Scarborough.
James, Captain, 10, Hereford-road, Bayswater, London, W.
Jenkins, E. Vaughan, Energlyn, 31, St. Margaret's-road, Oxford.
Keulemans, J. G., 4, St Mark's-crescent, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Macdonald, Rev. J. A., 43, Hill Side-road, Stamford Hill, London, N.
Nisbet, E. T., 51, Eldon-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Robertson, Miss N., 1, Oakley-street, Chelsea, S.W.
Saxby, Mrs., Mount Elton, Clevedon.
Scudamore, Mrs., 36, Albion-road, Stoke Newington, London, N.
Shield, Mrs., Bowers Gifford Rectory, Essex.
Sugden, Rev. E. H., B.A., B.Sc., Bradford, Yorkshire.
Walwyn, Mrs., 9, Sion Hill, Clifton, Bristol.
Wingfield, Mrs., 84, Cadogan-place, S.W.
MEETING OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH OF
THE SOCIETY.
At the Association Hall, Boston, January 27th, 1891, at 8 p.m.
350 persons present Professor William Watson in the chair.
The Secretary read the records of the previous meeting, which were
approved.
The Chairman announced that the annual assessment of associate
members of the Branch had been raised from three dollars to five
dollars, this change being sanctioned by the Council in London and
approved by the Vice-Presidents in America, viz., Professor William
James and Mr. S. P. Langley. The Chairman hoped that members would
endeavour to spread the knowledge of the Society among their friends.
If each present member should obtain three additional members for the
Branch, it would be placed upon a permanent basis, and become
independent of special donations, by means of which its work is now
chiefly maintained.
The Secretary then read a paper by Mr. T. Barkworth on " Some
M*reh, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 35
Recent Experiments in Automatic Writing," read previously at a meet
ing in London.
A report of some sittings with Mrs. Piper in America was then
given by Mr. R. Hodgson. He was satisfied that Mrs. Piper's
" mediumistic trance " was a genuine abnormal state, of whose
manifestations the normal waking Mrs. Piper had no direct knowledge.
He referred to other " personalities " said to " control " Mrs. Piper,
besides Dr. Phinuit, and discussed the possibility of explaining the
supernormal phenomena manifested in her trance-state without assum
ing the agency of disembodied spirits. Simple thought-transference
from the sitter was inadequate, but nearly all the phenomena might be
accounted for by assuming also thought-transference from persons
connected with the sitter. He did not feel sure, however, that this was
the real explanation. Many sitters believed that their deceased friends
communicated with them directly through Mrs. Piper. There were
difficulties in the way of this hypothesis, chiefly the ignorance of the
" purported " spirits concerning facts in their lives on earth. Tf the
phenomena were not at all due to the agency of disembodied spirits, the
alternative hypothesis apparently would be that they were due to a
sub- or super-conscious personality of Mrs. Piper, possessing a telepathic
and possibly some other supernormal faculty, and fictitiously represent
ing various deceased persons. Mr. Hodgson then referred to experi
ments made by Professor James and himself with Mrs. Piper's trance
personality, and quoted incidents from the accounts of several other
sitters. He required further investigation of Mrs. Piper's and similar
cases before concluding that the hypothesis of " secondary personality "
would completely explain all the phenomena.
The meeting then adjourned.
R. Hodgson.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
In the present number of the Journal we give three cases which
are so far similar that the agent, at a distance, either tried to impress
the percipient at the time in the particular way in which he was
impressed, or at least felt an earnest wish that the percipient could be
so impressed.
L. 864. Ae P" Experimental.
Mr. Myers writes :—
The evidence for the following experimental case is, I think, substantially
good, although I cannot present it in a complete form. In 1888, a gentleman,
whom I will call Mr. A., who has occupied a high public position in India,
and whom I have known a long time, informed me verbally that he had had
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1891
a remarkable experience. He awoke one morning, in India, very early, and in
the dawning light saw a lady, whom I will call Mrs. B. , standing at the foot of
his bed. At the same time he received an impression that she needed him.
This was his sole experience of a hallucination ; and it so much impressed
him that he wrote to the lady, who was in England at the time, and
mentioned the circumstance. He afterwards heard from her that she had
been in a trance-condition at the time, and had endeavoured to appear to him
by way of an experiment.
Mr. A. did not give me the lady's name, supposing that she did not
desire the incident to be spoken of ; nor did he find an opportunity of him
self inquiring as to her willingness to mention the matter. Meeting Mr. A. on
July 12th, 1890, I again urged him, ineffectually, to take this step. Oddly
enough, on that very day Mrs. B. (who was a complete stranger to me), with
out even knowing that Mr. A. had ever mentioned this incident to me, wrote
me the independent account which follows. Mr. A. 's name was not mentioned,
but I at once identified the incident. I made Mrs. B.'s acquaintance, and
she ultimately permitted me to publish the account with her name. I then
applied to Mr. A. and told him that there was no objection on the other
side. But he now declined to write out his own experience, saying that his
memory for the details of the incident might by this time have become
incorrect. One of the testimonies which the case should have received at
first hand is therefore represented only by my statement. Mrs. B.'s
experience, as will be seen, took place in the presence of a friend. I asked
Mrs. B. to apply to this friend for corroboration ; but private reasons, whose
adequacy I recognised, rendered this at present impossible. The case,
therefore, as it stands is evidentially incomplete ; but the important fact is
that I received two concordant and absolutely independent accounts from the
agent and percipient. F. W. H. M.
Mrs. B. writes :— july 13^ 1890.
Dear Sir, —I was at the meeting at Westminster Town Hall [July 11th],
and impressed by your desire to learn from private sources anything which
could be of interest to the cause of research, I send you the enclosed. My
name you will please not make public. The experience is one which I can
never forget, and is as vivid now as it was the day it happened.
Should you arrive at any theory regarding it perhaps you would tell me,
and if I can answer any questions I shall be glad to do so.
The following is the account she enclosed :—
A lady friend, not a professional medium, who had succeeded in impress
ing me with the strangeness of her experiences, suggested that I on my own
account should submit myself to be experimented on (I use this term for
want of a better) by her. For this purpose I often went to her house, and we
two, quite alone, had several experiences ; sometimes a maid was called in, who
usually gave confirmation of what we had seen. It is difficult to plunge at
once into the experiences I wish to narrate. I must state that to my know
ledge I never attended any paid medium seance at this lady's house, or else
where, and the statement I now make is entirely what I myself experienced.
My friend was what she called a materialising medium. She suggested to
March, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 37
me that I was, or could develop into, a clairvoyante. I was most anxious to
see something—to do something—but careful not to give myself too much
away, as, feeling myself to be very impressionable, and highly sensitive, I
feared becoming an (unwilling) impostor or hallucination-monger. I will
now state the experiences of this particular evening. We were in my friend's
drawing-room—a double room—the doors leading to the staircase closed ; the
room lighted by two dim candles with shades. She always put out the gas,
or put it down. I was seated in an armchair, with my back towards the
window, or nearly so ; my friend stood at the end of the room, close to the
wall, perhaps a few inches from it. She first generally made a few passes
over me, which rather amused me, as I did not believe that she could
hypnotise, nor do I know that she can now.
As she stood at the end of the room, my first sensation always was that I
was being pushed backwards (I have never felt any tangible touch). I
seemed to have left this world, and in myself felt a double identity. Now
and then, I, for a second, returned, as it were, to a consciousness that I was
still seated in the chair ; scarcely was that realised before I again seemed to slip
out of life. At this stage the walls behind and at each side of my friend were
covered with plaques of light, so brilliant that my eyes winked ; the picture
became outlined with borders of light, the lower part of the wall and the
chairs against it. Finally, I saw my friend, who appeared to have moved
forward into the room, about three yards from me. The light played on her
face ; her hands, crossed, blazed like molten silver ; all the other lights were
warm, golden coloured, various figures seemed to pass over her, and war with
each other, one pushing the other aside, for supremacy. When any
particular figure had succeeded in appearing, I was impelled to speak, to
state who it was, and in what way it impressed me. Just then I felt weary
and vexed with myself that it all seemed to serve no end ; no decided
appearance came to remain, and my brain was feeling the strain of putting
into coherent words the ideas with which the various appearances impressed
me. With an effort I dragged myself forward in the chair, and said, "I can
do no more," when a tall woman with old-fashioned grey side-curls, her dress
I can scarcely describe, formed herself distinctly—a stern, hard-looking
woman, whom I had seen before. I exclaimed, "The woman with the grey
curls," and a moment after "She tells me she is Mrs. Hill." I know no
Mrs. Hill. She asks me, "Don't I remember Mrs. Ryan, my mother's
friend i " In an instant I remember a Mrs. Hill, who afterwards became
Mrs. Ryan, a friend of my mother's in my early childhood. With horror I
exclaimed, " She is ready to answer any question about my mother. I want
to know nothing from you." The figure leant towards me. I was calm in
a moment, my excitement entirely gone. I said, "She tells me my will
power is immense ; if I choose to use it there is nothing I cannot do, and
asks me to put her words to the test. Whatever I toill shall happen." Once
more I seem to move backwards ; an instant, and I find myself seriously
debating within myself what I should do to prove to myself, and for my own
satisfaction, if I am indeed the victim of hallucination or not. I decided in
a flash, on a man whom I knew to be possessed of the most work-a-day
world common-sense ; his views and mine regarding most things were at the
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, i?»i.
antipodes, very unreceptive, who would be entirely out of sympathy with
me in my present experiment and experiences, at which I knew he would
only laugh, while regarding me as a simple tool in tricky hands. Such a man
was, I decided, the most satisfactory for my trial. The grey lady here
impressed me with a desire to will ; in her anxiety she appeared to move
towards me. I felt her will one with mine, and I willed with a concentrated
strength of mind and body, which finally prostrated me, thus : I will that
[Mr. A.] may feel I am near him and want his help ; and that, without any
suggestion from me, he write to tell me I have influenced him to-night.
The grey lady disappeared. I was seated in the chair, weary, but feeling
naturally, and back in common-place life. We put down the date and the
appearance of the grey lady, and I spoke to none of what had happened.
Some weeks passed, when I received a letter from [Mr. A.], asking how had I
been employed on a certain July evening at such and such an hour, mention
ing to what hour it would answer in London—day, date, and hour were those
on which I had made my proof trial—saying that he was asleep, and had
dreamed something he would tell me, but that he awoke from the dream
feeling I wanted something of. him, and asking me to let him know if
at the time he so carefully mentioned I had been doing anything which had
any reference to him. I then, and then only, told him what I have here
related.
Of [Mr. A.'s] dream I know nothing. On meeting him I asked to hear it,
but he refused to tell it, and I never pressed to know, feeling little curiosity
about it ; the main point of interest for me was, I had made him write to me
as I desired, and the grey lady had proved her words to me.
Should you consider this worth investigation I can give you [Mr. A.'s]
name. It happened in 1886.
L. 865. Auditory, Quasi-Experimental.
The Rev. C. J. Taylor, member of the S.P.R., sends us the
following narrative from a lady well known to him.
In 1849, in November, I was staying for some mouths with an uncle and
aunt who lived in Mecklenburg-Schwerin, quite in the country. My uncle
accepted an invitation for me to a ball in the little town of G , three
hours' fast driving across country. The day after the ball I was staying
with friends in the same town, and as we were all very tired, the lady of the
house proposed that we should all undress and go to bed for some hours'
sleep, after our early lunch, as we were going to a small dance in the evening.
My bedroom was on the first floor, and the kitchen was next to it ; there was
no other bedroom on the floor. Before I had time to undress I heard my
name called loudly (Dorette). I went out into the kitchen to inquire if
anybody had been there or had called me. The servant assured me that no
one had been, and said she did not know my name, so that she could not
have called me herself. I then went back to my room and undressed,
thinking that I must have been mistaken, but before I had time to go to l>ed
I distinctly heard my name called again twice, and it was my aunt's voice.
This roused me so thoroughly that I sat down and waited for quite half an
March, 1893.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 39
hour before I could compose myself. I then lay down ; and at that moment,
twice again, my name was shrieked out in a most distressing manner, and
again in my aunt's voice (she had a peculiar accent). I could bear it no longer,
and, trembling with fright, I dressed myself. I wrote a few words to the
lady of the house to explain my going away, and then, taking my bag, I went
to the house of another friend of my uncle's, and begged him to let me be
driven home in his carriage, because I felt sure that something had happened
at home. Seeing that I was so much alarmed, he kindly consented. On
arriving at my uncle's, my aunt met me, saying, "I was sure you would come."
Then my uncle explained what had happened. It appeared that just about
one o'clock, as they were taking their soup at dinner, my aunt got a letter
from her sister telling her that her mother had had a fit, and begging my
aunt to come at once, if she would see her alive. My aunt called out my
name impulsively, feeling that she could not in my absence leave home, with
two new servants to look after, a little child, and the house. My uncle
naturally reasoned with her that calling my name was of no use, but
promised to do all he could to start her upon her journey, but she declared
that she could not leave home unless I were there, and that before I could be
fetched the only evening train would be gone. After a good deal of
conversation, she became much excited at the thought of the difficulty of
seeing her mother before her death ; and again, twice, called out my name
very loudly. Upon this, my uncle urged her most seriously to calm herself,
and to reflect that it was perfectly useless to call after me, and advised her to
go and pack her things for the journey. She replied that she was determined,
if her thoughts could reach me, to make me hear and come ; which he said
was very wicked. Half an hour passed whilst she was packing and making
arrangements ; and then, seeing that her husband's attention was occupied,
she rushed to the bottom of the garden, and throwing her arms round a tree to
steady herself under her excitement, she said aloud, "I will tease (qualen) her
so that she must come to me " ; and then shrieked out my name again twice.
My uncle heard the cry, and rushing out, found his wife clinging to the tree
as described.
The foregoing account was given to me orally by the percipient, Miss
M., on September 3rd, 1890. I read it over to her, and she approved it as
correct. Charles J. Taylor.
Copy of a letter received September 27th, 1890, by the percipient
from an older sister still resident in Germany (translated into English
by a lady in Germany).
Willingly, my dear sister, do I fulfil your request to write down the
strange event which happened to you while living at Uncle 's, in the year
1849. You then told me in one of your letters that, being on a visit in G ,
a country town in Mecklenburg-Schwerin, you one day suddenly heard your
name called aloud, but, after looking round you and seeing no one, you
thought you had been mistaken. After a few minutes, however, the call,
" Dorette, Dorette I" distinctly uttered in your aunt's voice, sounded more
loudly and pressingly into your ears, and when a little while later the cry
was repeated for the third time, you became so excited that you started on"
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1891.
at once to return home, and even walked* the whole distance of three hours
to uncle's house. On your arrival there uncle told you that his wife, having
received the news that her mother was dangerously ill, was anxious to go to
her at once, and that she had been calling you repeatedly, saying to him :
" I shall give her no rest till she comes back," because aunt could not leave
home till your return. My husband Dr. , and several friends to whom
we at that time related this inexplicable event, were as much surprised at it
as we ourselves, and I suppose that is the reason I remember it so well,
even now.—Your sister, B. M.
This is a correct copy. —C.J.T.
Extract from letter dated October 2nd, 1890, from the percipient
to Rev. C. J. Taylor.
Now about my G event. It is 41 years ago, and all the relations and
friends who were then greatly interested in it are dead. Dr. died 10
years ago, and so did my uncle and aunt and friends. My sister asked one
of my cousins, who, after some talk, remembered dimly having heard of it
when a child. My sister was then about 25 years old.
The above is correctly copied. —C.J.T.
The following narrative was sent to us by the Right Hon. Sir John
Drummond Hay, K.C.B., G.M.C.G., who was for many years H.M.'s
Minister in Marocco and resided at Tangier.
L. 866. Ae Pn Borderland. Auditory.
September 16th, 1889.
In the year 1879 my son Robert Drummond Hay resided at Mogodor
with his family, where he was at that time Consul. It was in the month of
February. I had lately received good accounts of my son and his family ; I
was also in perfect health. About 1 a.m. (I forget the exact day in February),
whilst sleeping soundly [at Tangier], I was woke by hearing distinctly the
voice of my daughter-in-law, who was with her husband at Mogodor, saying
in a clear but distressed tone of voice, "Oh, I wish papa only knew that
Robert is ill." There was a night lamp in the room. I sat up and listened,
looking around the room, but there was no one except my wife, sleeping
quietly in bed. I listened for some seconds, expecting to hear footsteps out
side, but complete stillness prevailed, so I lay down again, thanking God that
the voice which woke me was an hallucination. I had hardly closed my eyes
when I heard the same voice and words, upon which I woke Lady Drummond
Hay and told her what had occurred, and I got up and went into my study,
adjoining the bedroom, and noted it in my diary. Next morning I related
what had happened to my daughter, saying that though I did not believe
in dreams I felt anxious for tidings from Mogodor. That port, as you will
see in the map, is about 300 miles south of Tangier. A few days after this
incident a letter arrived from my daughter-in-law, Mrs R. Drummond Hay,
* The percipient here inserted the following note : " No, not walked, but went in a
carriage. "
March, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 41
telling us that my son was seriously ill with typhoid fever and mentioning
the night during which he had been delirious. Much struck by the coincidence
that it was the same night I had heard her voice, I wrote to tell her what
had happened. She replied, the following post, that in her distress at seeing
her husband so dangerously ill, and from being alone in a distant land, she
had made use of the precise words which had startled me from sleep,
and had repeated them. As it may be of interest for you to receive a
corroboration of what I have related, from the persons I have mentioned,
who happen to be with me at this date, they also sign, to affirm the accuracy
of all I have related.
When I resigned, in 1886, I.destroyed, unfortunately, a number of my
diaries and amongst them that of 1879, or I should have been able to state
the day, and might have sent you the leaf on which I noted the incident.
At my request my daughter-in-law has written an account of what she
saw when living at Tangier in 1870. [See next case.] I remember well her
telling me that she had seen the Moorish hunter who had been accidentally
shot, and of our hearing the following day that it was at the same hour
she had seen him when he was actually killed out hunting in a wood many
miles distant from my summer residence, where she was living.
(J. H. Drummond Hay.
Annette Dkummond Hay.
Bignea, s EuPHEMIA Drummond Hay.
V Alice Drummond Hay.
The next case is of a different type. We give it here because it
and the preceding one are dealt with together in the correspondence
that has passed about them. As will be observed, the agent in the
first case is percipient in the second.
L. 867. Ad Pn Collective. Visual.
In the spring of 1870 my husband and I were living just outside Tangier,
in a house and garden belonging to my father-in-law, Sir John Drummond
Hay. The Moorish sportsmen often came to our house to talk over past or
future boar hunts with their friend, "Rabat," as they called my husband
(Robert), and amongst their number one came more frequently than any, a
young man named "Kadour," son of Sir John's most devoted follower, Hadj
Hamed, and himself a great friend of my husband, for they were of the same
age, had known each other from boyhood, married the same year, and their
first children had been born not long before the time of which I write.
Kadour was always welcome, and came and went as he pleased, so my sister,
who was on a visit to us, was quite familiar with his appearance. One day I
heard that Kadour and some of the men of his village were off boar-hunting
in the neighbourhood, and wanted my husband to go with them. This,
however, Robert could not do on account of his duties at the Legation, so
Kadour had to go without him. At about four o'clock in the afternoon of
that day, when I knew that the hunt was going on, I was walking with my
sister in the garden, in the broad approach to the house from whence I
could see the entrance to our stables and a path leading to them across a
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1891.
field. Suddenly I perceived Kadour's well-known figure walking away from
the stables, as if he had been, as usual, to see our horses, and await in their
company the arrival of their master. His dress was always remarkable, and
in some way different from others of our visitors, and I recognised him
instantly by his blue " serawot " (or full trousers) and claret coloured gelab.
For the moment I looked at him without any surprise, but suddenly
remembering the hunt, I said to my sister, "Look, there is Kadour ! I
thought he was to go boar-hunting to-day." "Well," she said, "he has
either come back or not gone at all, for, certainly, there he is." So we went
to the stables to ask about the matter, and I saw Kadour disappear behind
some rising ground before I got there. A groom was sitting on some straw
polishing a bit, and to him I said, "Has Kadour, the son of Hadj Hamed,
been here?" He looked at me astonished, and replied, "No, Sefiora, the
Swani men are all away hunting to-day." "I thought so," I replied,
" but I am sure I saw Kadour just now ! " The man evidently considered
me utterly and absurdly mistaken, so, after ascertaining that no one had
been to the stables, I went away, and forgot the matter till next morn
ing, when, as I was dressing for breakfast, I heard passing along the sandy
road above our garden the funeral chant of the Moors. At the same moment
my husband came into my room, and broke to me the sad news that our poor
friend Kadour had been accidentally shot at Awaraasit, 13 miles distant,
the day before, at the very hour when I thought I saw him. I could not
believe it for some time, I was so sure, and so was my sister, that we had
seen him. We afterwards found that in dying his last words had been to
commend his wife and infant child to the protection of his friend "Rabat."
His last thoughts had flown to the place he had visited almost daily, and
what we had soen with our bodily eyes in broad daylight was his wraith.
EUPHEMIA DrUMMOND HAY.
We have asked for an account of this incident from Mrs. R. Drum-
mond Hay's sister, who is now married and has gone to New Zealand,
but have not received it. In reply to inquiries we are informed that the
distance at which the apparition appeared to be was about 120 yards.
In reply to a question about similar experiences, Sir John Drum-
mond Hay writes :—
Mrs. R. Drummond Hay and I have not, since we were of age, ex
perienced any other hallucinations. When I was a boy of nine years, living
with my parents at Edinburgh, I and my elder sister, who had remained in
the dining-room to eat dessert after our parents left, saw the figure of a
woman pass across the room, disappearing in the opposite wall. We were
not frightened and told our parents, who thought that the figure might have
been reflected through the window from the street. The shutters were
closed, but there was a chink. I only mention this as you ask me the
question.
G. 191. ref.
A repetition of the musical sounds in the case quoted by Mr.
Podmore in his paper on Phantasms of the Beadfrom anotlier point of
March, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 43
view {Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 304), has recently occurred, as described
below by Lady Z. :—
I hereby state that, on the 15th November, 1890, I again heard sounds at
our private cemetery chapel, similar to those described in the Proceeding*
for June (1890). They appeared to last about half a minute in duration. I
was in company with three other persons (my husband being one of them).
I immediately drew their attention to the sounds ; but they heard nothing,
and the sounds then ceased. As before, they resembled a wave of voices,
like the chanting of a choir, but in which I could distinguish no words.
January 21st, 1891.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Me. S. J. Davey's Experiments.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir,—In the January number of the Journal the death of Mr. S. J. Davey
is announced, with a complimentary reference to his "experiments,"
recorded in Vol. IV. of the Proceedings. I, and many other Spiritualists,
thought at the time that to publish those experiments without any elucidation
of them other than Mr. Davey's assertion, that they were all " tricks," was
an unscientific and unfair proceeding, since it accepted as evidence in his
case a mere personal statement which it has always refused to consider of the
slightest value when made by Spiritualists.
Now, however, that further secrecy is unnecessary, I trust that Mrs.
Sidgwick, Mr. Hodgson, and any other persons to whom (as stated at p. 485
of Proceedings, Vol. IV.) Mr. Davey communicated " the details of his
methods," will give a full account of them, in order that we who believe that
there are genuine phenomena of which Mr. Davey purported to give "trick"
imitations, may be able to judge how far this claim is supported by the actual
facts of the case.
If such experiments as those recorded at Sittings 11 and 12, and at the
materialisation seance, are clearly and fully explained as mechanical or
sleight-of-hand tricks, available under the conditions usually adopted by
professed mediums, it will do more to weaken the evidence for Spiritualistic
phenomena than anything that has yet been adduced by disbelievers. As
one of the witnesses says : "I believe that a full explanation of his methods
would ' fire a shot heard round the world ' in almost every civilised community
where the phenomena of so-called ' Spiritualism ' are perplexing, and often
madden true and good people." (I.e., p. 435.) But to have this effect it
will not do to explain some of the phenomena by trick, leaving the more
mysterious unsolved. They are claimed to be all trick, and unless all can be
so explained many of us will be confirmed in our belief that Mr. Davey was
really a medium as well as a conjurer, and that in imputing all his perform
ances to " trick " he was deceiving the Society and the public.
Alfred R. Wallace.
[It is a mistake to suppose that Mr. Davey's assertion that his perform
ances involved no " mediumship " was the only or the chief ground for
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1891.
maintaining this position. Mrs. Sidgwick, Mr. Hodgson, and Mr. Angolo
J. Lewis were all aware of the details of ;Mr. Davey's methods, and by
this is meant that they were aware of the details as applied to the specific
incidents reported in the sittings, and they had no doubt whatever but that the
phenomena described in the reports were completely explained by ordinary
means. (Vol. IV. Proc. S.P.R., pp. 400, 485, 486.) But not only was this
the case. Of the sixteen sittings for slate-writing reported, Mrs. Sidgwick
attended two, and perceived some of Mr. Davey's sleight-of-hand move
ments, which were unperceived by the other witness at these sittings, and
she was afterwards informed of the precise methods employed by Mr.
Davey throughout both sittings, and was absolutely satisfied that the writing
was produced as he described. Further, Mr. Hodgson was present at five of
the sittings. He was, as we learn from him, usually informed beforehand,
as far as possible, what Mr. Davey proposed to do ; and he actually witnessed
the details of the trick performances in every incident of any importance.
In addition to this, he went over every detail of all the sittings with Mr.
Davey, and was perfectly satisfied with the explanation given of the sittings
where he was not present himself to give his "independent testimony
concerning the mode of production of the phenomena." (Vol. IV. Proc.
S.P.R., p. 400.)
But we think that Mr. Wallace greatly overrates the value of specific
verbal explanations of Mr. Davey's methods, so far as such explanations are
possible. Suppose, e.g., it is a question of the substitution of one slate
for another, as in Sitting 11. [c] (Vol. IV., pp. 427-8. See Mrs. Y.'s
account.) Mr. Wallace may say that there was absolutely no opportunity
for any substitution at a sitting which he may have had with a medium.
Mrs. Y. so affirmed :—
" This test seemed to me perfect. The slate was under my own eye on
top of the table the whole time, and either my daughter's hand or my own
was placed firmly upon it without the intermission of even a second ; more
over we closed and opened it ourselves. "
Nevertheless, the substitution occurred and Mr. Hodgson saw it. Mrs.
Y. 's statement is erroneous. That the substitution was necessary for the
trick Mr. Hodgson knew beforehand, and in the morning of the day of the
sitting he saw Mr. Davey write on the second slate the communication which
was found there during the sitting. But precisely when the substitution
would be effected Mr. Hodgson did not know beforehand. The description
of the incident, however, even though in greater detail, may be of little
value to Mr. Wallace ; the instructive part of it has already been emphasised
in Mr. Hodgson's introduction, viz., that such positive statements as that
of Mrs. Y. quoted above may be entirely erroneous. Mr. Wallace, apparently,
is unable to believe that human testimony, under the circumstances in
question, can be as unreliable as Mr. Davey's investigation proved it to be ;
but possibly a detailed description of some of the sittings, with accounts of
the devices resorted to by Mr. Davey, may lead Mr. Wallace, as well as
others who share his present opinion that Mr. Davey was a medium, to the
conviction that his performances are all explicable by ordinary means, and
therefore—this beiiuj the really important conclusion—that human testimony
March, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 45
under the circumstances is unreliable to the degree alleged. It is accord
ingly proposed that Mr. Hodgson should prepare an article on this subject.
That such an article should seem at all necessary, is, to those who are
familiar with Mr. Davey's methods and with the mal-observation and lapses
of memory shown by the uninitiated sitter, an additional proof that certain
celebrated professional mediums are merely conjurers—since we may take
Mr. Wallace's letter to admit that he for one cannot distinguish between
Mr. Davey's performances and ordinary " mediumistic " phenomena. —Ed.]
"The Religio-Philosophical Journal."
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir, —I beg to recommend to the notice of your readers the Religio-
Philosophical Journal, published weekly by Colonel Bundy, Chicago. While
avowing a belief in Spiritualistic phenomena, this journal has long been
honourably distinguished for its prompt and fearless exposure of the frauds
commonly practised by professional mediums in the United States. This
unflinching candour tends, I believe, to reduce the circulation of the
paper, which is tabooed by the credulous and the dishonest, and finds its
audience mainly among those whose interest in ' ' psychical " phenomena is of
a sober and not a fanatical kind. The editor has greatly assisted Mr.
Hodgson in his work of collecting evidence in America. Several cases of
importance have come to our Society through this channel. The subscription
is five shillings ($1.25) for the half-year, with postage. I think that we
ought to support Colonel Bundy's effort, and I should be happy to receive
and forward the names of any intending subscribers.
P. W. H. Myers.
Hallucinations.
In connection with Mr. Venman's letter in the February Journal, Mr.
Hayes writes: "The term 'pseudosoma' was suggested to define 'any
temporary materialised form (whether partial or complete) not distinguishable
by physical tests from a permanent organism.' It was not proposed to
include in its meaning anything to which the term ' hallucination ' (veridical
or otherwise) could with propriety be applied."
"ANNALES DES SCIENCES PSYCHIQUES."
We welcome the announcement of a bi-monthly periodical of this
name, whose first number is to appear on March 15. It is published
by Alcan, Paris, and edited by Dr. Dariex, a Paris physician. We are
enabled to state that the first number opens with a commendatory
letter from our esteemed Corresponding Member, Professor Charles
Richet ; and that the object of the Annates will be similar to that
of our own Society—the prosecution of research in these obscure matters
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1891.
under the strictest conditions obtainable by accuracy and care. Each
number will consist of 80 octavo pages, price three francs. Professor
Richet kindly offers to send the first number free of charge to such of
our Members and Associates as may desire it. Applicants should write
at once to the Assistant-Secretary, who will forward the names to M.
Richet. It is further hoped that an arrangement may be made by
which Members and Associates of the S.P.R. subscribing to the
Annates may be supplied at a reduced rate.
EXPOSURE OF THE MEDIUM HUSK.
It may be remembered that a committee of the S.P.R. examined,
and reported as inconclusive, the phenomenon of an iron ring stated by
Husk to have been placed on his wrist by spiritual agency, and to be
too small in circumference to be forced over his hand. (See Proceed
ings, Vol. III., p. 460.) It seems, therefore, desirable to mention that
he has recently been caught acting a supposed spirit at one of the
public seances given by him and Williams. Pull accounts of the
exposure, which seems to have been very skilfully managed, have
appeared in the Star newspaper of February 6th and 7th, Light, and
elsewhere, and we will only briefly describe it here. Two gentlemen,
having suspected fraud at previous stances, brought an electric lamp in
the form of a scarf-pin. The company, including the mediums, sat at
a table holding hands all round, and different "spirits" appeared in
succession, shown by the light of a phosphorescent slate. Suddenly
the electric light was turned on and revealed Husk standing up, leaning
over the table, with white drapery arranged on his head, and the
luminous slate in his right hand, which had been set free by his
neighbour, who was another well-known medium—Rita.
Williams has been more than once publicly exposed, and Rita
and he were involved in a fraudulent materialisation which was
exposed in Holland some 10 or 12 years ago.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Continued from the January Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
will be gratefully received.
B L 82. Visual. Collective. 2nd hand. From Miss Musgrave.—
Her family were expecting a friend on a visit. He sent word that
he was unable to come. On the same day Miss Musgrave, with some
visitors, went to tea at a neighbour's house. The next day these neighbours
March, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 47
called and asked who was the " young man with grey hair " who was with
Miss Musgrave's party, but to whom they were not introduced. Their de
scription exactly fitted the absentguest. Date, " Some years ago. " Recorded
March, 1887.
B L 83. Visual A« P From Miss M. H. Mason.—Her "double "
was seen by her sister out of doors, and by a child in doors, at different
times on the same day. She was absent at the time ; tired and worried and
anxious to be at home, but not more so on one day than another. Her
sister, who also signs the account, did not see the face of the figure. Date
of appearance, April 1886 ; of record, May, 1886.
B L 84. Visual. 3rd or 4th hand. No date. From Mrs. Bullock.—
The narrator's grandmother's servant sees a sailor brother "dripping wet."
She screams and faints. The day and hour are noted, and news is obtained
that the young man was drowned at that time. Recorded, September, 1888.
B L 85. Visual. Ad P" Borderland. —Mrs. Croome narrates that
she took a strong fancy to a young lady whom she saw in church. She heard
that the impression was mutual, though the two never spoke or formed an
acquaintance. Some months after, when lying in bed with a bad head
ache, Mrs. C. had a sensation of something in the room ; she turned her
head and saw this young lady standing at the foot of the bed. The figure
threw a kiss and was gone. Mrs. Croome noted the hour. Some days after
she heard that the young lady died at that time. No date given. Recorded
November, 1888.
B L 86. 2nd hand. —M. A. de Rochas informs us that his friend, M.
Lacorte, opened a newspaper and saw an account of a new play then being
produced in Paris for the first time ; he remarked to his wife, " Why ! I
seem to have seen that." Then, without consulting paper, he described the
whole plot of the play, never having seen it. Date not given. Recorded
August, 1889.
B L 87. Visual. Ad Pn Unrecognised. —Mr. W. Scott informs us that
on going home about 11.30 p.m. May 18th, 1885, he saw the figure of a
woman in front of him. As he approached it disappeared. Arrived home,
he found his mother dying and asking for him. She died soon after mid
night.
2nd hand. Visual. Art Pn. —Mr. Scott also tells us that his sister in
New Zealand wrote home to say she knew their mother was dead, as she had
seen her apparition in her room (by daylight) on May 19th. Both cases
recorded in June, 1887.
B L 88. Clairvoyant Dream. 2nd hand. —Mrs. Joseph Isard relates
that her brother, when in West Indies, dreamt of seeing his father and a
friend at the former's office, talking of an event which happened in his
(dreamer's) boyhood, viz., his running away from home on romantic quest—
seemed to see father showing a handbill that had been printed at the time.
He wrote home an account of the dream, when, on reference to father's diary,
its accuracy was shown. No dates given. Recorded February, 1889.
B L 89. A'1 P Auditory. 2nd hand. —Mrs. H. L. Lane informs us
that her friend Mrs. Martin heard her aunt call her by name three times at
the time of her death. No date given. Recorded January, 1884.
B L 90. Art P3 —Captain G. A. dreams of his brother's death by
drowning at the moment. Narrator, the Rev. Dr. A., copies account from
Captain A.'s letter. Date of dream, February, 1884. Date of Captain A.'s
letter not stated. Recorded by the Rev. Dr. A., September, 1887.
B L 91. Transferred Dream ? 2nd hand. —Told to the Rev. Alfred
Starkey by "Betty" Ogden, a nurse, who is now dead. Mm. Ogden,
sleeping beside her sick child, dreamt that her deceased husband stood at
the foot of the bed. Child afterwards stated that he had seen father stand
ing there. No date given. Recorded about June, 1887.
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1991.
B L 92. Ae Pn Impulse.—Lady Eardley informs us that many years
ago she longed for the advice of a certain old friend at a time of great
perplexity and trouble, and that this gentleman, who was in North America,
was suddenly moved to write and ask what the trouble was, having a strong
and irresistible impression that "something dreadful" was happening.
Recorded, 1890.
B L 93. Baps at Death. —Mrs. Damant informs us that for several
generations sharp raps have been heard in her family when deaths occurred.
She gives two instances in her own experience, and two second-hand
instances. No dates. Recorded in 1884.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Additions since the list in "Proceedings," Vol. VI.
James (Professor William), The Principles of Psychology (2 vols.),
London, 1890
Beenhbim (Professor H.), Hypnotisme, Suggestion, Psycho-
therapie ; Etudes nouvelles Paris, 1891
Charcot (Dr. J. M.), (Euvres Completes. Tome ix. Metallo-
therapie et Hypnotisme, &c Paris, 1890
DuPoTET(Le Baron de Sennevoy), Cours de Magnetisme... Paris, 1840
Gasparin (Comte Ag. de), Tables Tournantes. 2nd Edition, Paris, 1888
Liebeault (Dr. A. A.), Therapeutique Suggestive Paris, 1891*
Gesellschaft fur PsychologischeForschung. Schriften. Heft I.
Leipzig, 1891t
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Additions since the last list ("Journal" for November, 1890).
Beioel (Hermann, M.D.), The Examination and Confession of
Certain Witches at Chelmsford, in the County of Essex
(26th July, 1556). Communicated and prefaced by...London, 1864J
Coleman (Benjamin), Spiritualism in America. With facsimiles
of Spirit Drawings and Writing London, 1861
True and Exact Relation (A) of Witches arraigned and
executed in Essex, who were condemned the 29th July, 1645
(Reprint from the original edition of 1645) London, 1837j
Chevrecl (E.), De la Baguette Divinatoire, du Pendule dit
Explorateur et des Tables Tournantes Paris, 1854
Hartmann (Eduard von), Die Geisterhypothese des Spiritismus
und seine Phantome Leipzig, 1891t
* Presented by the Author t Presented. X Presented by Lady Rayleigh.
No. LXXIX.—Vol. V. April, i89i.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
New Members and Associates 49
Meeting of the Council 50
General Meeting 51
Cases received by the Literary Committee 52
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases 64
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBER.
Professor Dr. Heinrich Hertz, The University, Bonn.
MEMBER.
Hewetson, H.Bendelack, F.L.S.,M.R.C.S., 11, Hanover-square, Leeds.
ASSOCIATES.
Berkeley, Captain H. Fitzhardinge, R.N., Warwick Lodge, Rivers-
court, Hammersmith, W.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Birrell, Mrs., Placilla, Down View-road, Worthing.
Duckworth, A. C., Trinity College, Cambridge.
FitzGerald, Miss, Clareville, Galway.
Gardner, Mrs. Ernest, 1, Pemberton-terrace, Cambridge.
Hughes-Hughes, Mrs., 25, Seymour-street, Portman-square, W.
Prickett, Miss L. M., Southcliffe Sanatorium, Ilfracombe.
Ramsay, Professor William, Ph.D., F.R.S., 12, Arundel-gardens, W.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Brown, Wilbur C., P. O. Box, 2684, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Cheney, Dr. Fred. E., Hotel Bristol, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Colburn, Mrs. Charles H., The Vendome, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Cressey, John P., The Hill School, Pottstown, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
Crocker, Mrs. F. E., P. O. Box, 59, Columbus Junction, Iowa, U.S.A.
Dexter, Mrs. George, Egmont-street, Longwood, Mass., U.S.A.
Duncan, W. A., Ph.D., Congregational House, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Edmunds, MissL.,c/oR. Hodgson, 5, Boylston-pl., Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Evans, Mrs. Edgar B., 8, Chester-square, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Fuller, Miss S. E., 124, West 23rd-street, New York, U.S.A.
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1s91.
Gibbons, J. A., 100, Queen-street West, Toronto, Canada.
Jackson, Mrs. E. B., 244, Dallas-street, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
McEwen, Mrs. D. O, 160, Stirling-place, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
Norris, Hon. C. H., Marion, Ohio, U.S.A.
Sawyer, Hon. Chas. H. Dover, New Hampshire, U.S.A. [M.]
Sawyer, Roswell D., 58, West 57th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Sears, John D., Upper Sandusky, Ohio, U.S.A.
Sims, John O, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Stansell, Mrs. E. T., A-l, High School-terrace, Denver, Colorado,U.S.A.
Stowe, Mrs. Charles E., Simsbury, Conn., U.S.A.
Sutherland, J. G., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A. [M.]
Wake, C. Staniland, 349, North Clark-street, Chicago, U.S.A.
Waldo, Miss S. E., 249, Monroe-street, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
Woodman,Walter, M.D., 64, Sparks-st., Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A. [M.]
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on March 6th, the President in
the chair. There were also present :—Professor W. F. Barrett, Dr. A.
T. Myers, Messrs. T. Barkworth, W. Crookes, F.R.S., Walter Leaf,
F. Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and H. E. Wingfield.
The minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Mr. Sydney C. Scott was co-opted as a member of the Council
under Rule 17.
On the proposition of Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S., Dr.
Heinrich Hertz, Professor of Physics in the University of Bonn, was
elected a Corresponding Member of the Society for the current year.
One new Member and nine new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given in a preceding page, were elected. The election of
twenty-four new Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
At his request, the name of Dr. G. C. Kingsbury, recently elected
as an Associate, was transferred to the list of Members.
A few presents to the Library were on the table, including a bound
volume of Light for 1890, from the London Spiritualist Alliance. A
vote of thanks was awarded to the donors.
It was directed that a copy of Circular III. Edition 2, and of Cir
cular V., be sent round with the March Journal to all names on the
English List, and that a supply be sent to Mr. Hodgson for the
members of the American Branch.
The Finance Committee, as requested, presented a report and an
estimate of Income and a scheme of Expenditure for the current year,
which, after consideration and discussion, were adopted. The report
included a recommendation of the Committee that three moderate
April, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 51
sized Parts of Proceedings be issued during the year, if possible in
March or April, in July, and in November, forming one volume, and
that for the future, successive volumes should be completed annually.
Part XVIII. will be ready before the end of April.
Several other matters of business having been attended to, the
Council agreed to meet at the Westminster Town Hall at 3 p.m., on
Friday, the 17th of April, previous to the General Meeting to be held
on that day.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 44th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, March 6th, at 8.30 p.m., the President
in the chair.
A paper by Baron von Schrenk-Notzing, M.D., of Munich, on
some experiments in thought-transference, was read by Mr. Podmore.
The experiments were carried out with several different percipients,
Dr. von Schrenk-Notzing himself acting as agent, and they consisted
partly in the reproduction of diagrams drawn by the agent and partly
in the guessing of objects, persons, numbers, ifcc, thought of. A selec
tion only of the accounts of experiments was read and those concerned
with drawings were illustrated by enlarged copies hung on a screen.
The paper will, it is hoped, appear in full in the forthcoming number of
the Proceedings, and need not, therefore, be given in abstract here.
The President spoke of his own acquaintance with Baron von
Schrenk-Notzing, commenced on a visit to Munich three years ago,
which Dr. Myers and he undertook with a view to witnessing some
clairvoyant experiments then going on. The primary object of the
visit had not been fulfilled, owing to the serious illness of the clair
voyant, but he was glad that it had enabled him to make the acquaint
ance of so zealous, careful, and intelligent a co-operator in our work as
Baron von Schrenk-Notzing. Commenting on the paper which had
just been read, he drew attention to the differences observed by the
author in the way in which the idea transferred seemed to reach the
consciousness of different percipients, as both interesting and instruc
tive. He also remarked, in reference to Baron von Schrenk's success
in finding percipients, that there was probably a considerable difference
in agents, and that there was reason to think that he had the advantage
of being an exceptionally good one.
A paper by Professor W. James and Mr. Hodgson on a case of
" double personality of the ambulatory type " (that of the Rev. Ansel
Bourne), of which an abstract was given in the Journal for January,
p. 5, was then read by Mr. Leaf.
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1891.
Mr. Leaf at the conclusion of the paper recalled to the recollection
of the meeting similar cases that had been observed in France,
especially that of Emile X., of which an account, abbreviated from
the Revue de VHypnotisms, was given in the Journal for May, 1890,
p. 258. In this case, as in the case of Mr. Bourne, memory of what had
occurred in the secondary state was recovered by hypnotism. He also
pointed out a difference between Mr. Bourne's case and most of the
others in the fact that Mr. Bourne's character and habits in his two
states seem to have been very much alike, whereas in many cases a
very complete change occurs.
Mr. Barkworth raised the question whether the degree of com
pleteness in the alternation of memory between the two states in Mr.
Bourne's case was not peculiar—whether in most such cases the
memory did not extend in one of the states over both, though dis
continuous in the other.
The President said that the degree of separation between the
different consciousnesses varied very much in different cases.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 872. Ae Pn Auditory.
The following case resembles those printed in the Journal for
March, especially Nos. 865 and 866, in that actual words uttered by
the agent were apparently transferred to the percipient, who thus
obtained more precise information than a veridical hallucination is often
able to give.
Mrs. Howieson writes :—
Rostrevor, Winterwell-road, Brixton Hill, S. W. [February, 1891.]
The incident which I promised to relate to you occurred in June, 1883.
My eldest daughter Kathleen, then a child nearly five years old, was absent
from home on a visit to my mother, who lived in Newport, Monmouthshire.
For some months previous to her leaving home, she had been in a weak,
nervous state of health, but an absence of three months in that charming
county, and living almost entirely out of doors, wrought wonders for her.
My mother wrote to me from time to time, saying how well she could climb
the hills, and how her nervousness had given place to joyous glee, as she
watched from a hill top the ships sailing in sunlight up and down the Bristol
Channel, or the wonderfully fascinating, gorgeous sunsets over Twm Barium,
which even now she dreams of.
All my anxiety about her had vanished, and with my little baby three
weeks old beside me, I was quietly sleeping when I suddenly awaked, hear
ing Kathleen call me, in a sharp, terrified voice, " Mamma, oh ! mamma ! "
Forgetting that the child was away, I sat up in bed and called to my nurse,
April, 189i.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 53
saying. "Do see, nurse, what ails Miss Kathleen." " Why, ma'am," she
said, "you've been dreaming, sure you know she's in Newport."
Thoroughly awake, I laughed and lay down to sleep ; but just as I was
dozing off again, I was startled by hearing the child's voice calling down the
stairs from the next floor, where she slept when at home, the same wordp,
"Mamma, oh! mamma!" I simply screamed to nurse, "Oh, nurse, I've
heard her again, and there is something wrong with the child." I trembled
all over, the thing was so real ; and yet so unlikely, that I allowed myself to
be soothed, and talked into silence.
No sooner had nurse settled herself comfortably in bed, and I, broad
awake, was lying wondering about it, when Kathleen's cry broke on my ears
again, a scream, "Mamma, oh! mamma, I've got scarlet fever, I've got scarlet
fever ! " There was no more sleep for me that night. My husband came in
and tried to calm me, in vain, and when the morning came he telegraphed to
Newport, and this is the sequel.
The evening before, Kathleen complained of headache going to bed, and
after she went to bed grew hot and feverish, so much so that my mother
sat up with her, hoping to see her go to sleep. All the night she kept saying,
"I wish my mamma was here," "I don't know why I left my mamma." But
as the small hours of the morning drew on she grew so ill that my father
fetched the doctor. On seeing her he said it was just possible she had
caught scarlet fever, as it was very prevalent just then. Directly the child
heard what he said, the wild scream I had heard broke from her, in the
very words, " Mamma, oh ! mamma, I've got scarlet fever, I've got scarlet
fever ! " And nearly 200 miles away they were flashed to my ears. But how 1
Was it the overpowering longing of the child's spirit that, in its terror, shook
off the clogging body, and bridging, in a moment, distance and time, rushed
to the spirit that it believed would shelter it 1
Kathleen did not have the fever after all, and was well in a few days, but
my mother had such a fright with her that she embraced the first opportunity
to send her home. Bessie Howieson.
Mr. Howieson confirms the account as follows :—
I remember this incident and can vouch for the correctness of the fore
going statement. W. D. Howieson.
Mrs. Howieson's father, the Rev. John Douglas, at whose house the
child was staying at the time, gives the following account of the
beginning of the illness.
February 25th, 1891.
The child and her nurse came on a visit to my house during, I believe, the
summer months of 1883. She had been with us some time, when she was
suddenly taken ill and the doctor whom we called in to attend her pronounced
it scarlet fever or scarlatina. I cannot remember what age she was, but I
suppose she was 5 or 6 years old. We were greatly alarmed on hearing it
was a fever she had caught. She understood what the doctor had said as to
her complaint, or perhaps overheard it, from my dear wife speaking to the
nurse, or my younger daughters, of what the doctor had said of the sudden
illness. She then frequently called out for her mamma, who, of course, was
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1891.
about 150 miles away, residing in London. The child was with me in
Newport, Mon., when ill. This is the substance of what occurred. We
received next day a letter, perhaps a telegram, from Mrs. Howieson, asking
about the child's health, stating she feared she must be ill as she distinctly
heard her call out, "Mamma, I have caught scarlet fever." " Come to me,"
I think, was added. Our reply was the first real information Mrs. Howieson
got of the attack. John Douglas.
Mr. Douglas himself has experienced several hallucinations, some of
which were almost certainly subjective, but, among others, an apparition
of a neighbour who he found next morning had died, unknown to him,
seven weeks before. He and his wife had also heard knocks at the
time of his father's death, and they had lived for some time in a
" haunted house " in the south of Ireland, where unaccountable noises,
apparently of a very violent and persistent kind, were heard often by
themselves and several other people.
Miss Alice Johnson, who had an interview with Mrs. Howieson,
writes :—.
I saw Mrs. Howieson on December 23rd, 1890, and had a long talk with
her about her own and her father's psychical experiences. She gave me an
account, which closely corresponded in all essentials with the one given
above, of her hearing her child's voice, adding that whenever Kathleen had
been away from home since that time, she had always expected to hear her
voice again, but had never done so. Kathleen came in for a few minutes,
and I found that she remembered having been ill while on a visit to her
grandfather, and a few trivial details connected with the illness, but had
forgotten her alarm and her crying for her mother. Mr. Howieson told me
that he remembered the whole incident perfectly well, but there was not
time then for him to give me an independent account.
L. 873. Ae Pn Auditory and Tactile, with accompanying impres
sion as to agent's condition. Semi-collective.
This case (received through the American Branch of the Society),
again belongs to a class of experiences where the agent's thoughts are
known to have been directed towards the percipient and accompanied
by a wish that certain information could be conveyed to her.
There does not seem to be any evidence for the experience having
been "reciprocal," as Mrs. Fremont is apparently inclined to think it
was. As far as we know, Mr. Fremont had no supernormal impression
about his family at the same time that his wife had the impression
about him. It is an interesting feature in the case that Mrs. Fremont's
experience was to some extent reflected on to her sister. No doubt
Mrs. Fremont's face betrayed that something had occurred and led to
Miss Mary Benton's (Mrs. Warren's) exclamation, but it seems pretty
April, 189i.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 55
certain that her sister's impression was more definite than her cousin's,
and perhaps the most probable explanation of it is that it was due to
thought-transference from Mrs. Fremont.
The first account we give is taken from Wide Awake (a periodical
published by D. Lothrop and Co., Boston) for December, 1888, but is
somewhat abridged.
* * * * *
We could not look to hear from Mr. Fremont on the unoccupied line of
country he was exploring that winter of 1853-54 ; he must first reach the
close at San Francisco, and our first news must come by the Isthmus route of
Panama ; at the earliest, midsummer. But in midwinter, without any reason,
I became possessed by the conviction that he was starving ; nor could any
effort reason this away. No such impression had ever come to me before,
although more than once dreadful suffering, and even deaths from starvation
had befallen his other expeditions. This time it came upon me as a fact I
could not turn from. It fairly haunted me for nearly two weeks, until,
young and absolutely healthy as I was, it made a physical effect on me.
Sleep and appetite were broken up, and in spite of my father's and my
own efforts to dissipate it by reasoning, by added open-air life, nothing
dulled my sense of increasing suffering from hunger to Mr. Fremont and his
party.
This weight of fear was lifted from me as suddenly as it had come.
My house was near that of my father, and the younger part of his family
when returning from parties often came to me for the remainder of the night
that the elders might not have their sleep broken. In this way one of my
sisters, and a cousin, came to me after a wedding ball at General Jessup's.
The drive home was long and over rough frozen streets, and it was nearly one
o'clock when they came in— glad enough of the bright room and big wood
fire waiting them. As girls do, they took off their ball dresses and made
themselves comfortable with loose woollen gowns and letting down their
hair, while I, only too pleased just then to have an excuse for staying up
with others, made them tea as we talked over the evening and the bride.
The fire was getting low and I went into the adjoining dressing-room to
bring in more wood. It was an old-fashioned big fireplace, and the sticks
were too large to grasp with the hand ; as I half-knelt, balancing the long
sticks on my left arm, a hand rested slightly on my left shoulder, and Mr.
Fremont's voice, pleased and laughing, whispered my name. There was no
sound beyond the quick-whispered name—no presence, only the touch—
that was all. But I knew (as one knows in dreams) that it was Mr.
Fremont, gay, and intending to startle my sister whose ready scream always
freshly amused him.
Silently I went back into the girls' room with the wood, but before I
could speak my sister, looking up to take a stick from me, gave a great cry
and fell in a heap on the rug.
" What have you seen 1 " called out our cousin, Mary Benton. . . .
I had not yet spoken ; this was all in a flash together. When I said it was
Mr. Fremont—that he touched my shoulder for me to "keep still and let
him scare Susy" — then the poor child screamed again and again. We
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1891.
crushed her ball dress over her head to keep the sound from the neighbours,
but it was difficult to quiet her.
The girls had been distressed by my fixed idea of danger to Mr. Fremont
and knew how out of condition it had made me. Their first thought now
was that my mind had broken down. They soon realised this was not so, as
we discussed the strange fact of my knowing—and so surely that peace came
back to me—that whatever he had had to bear was over ; that he was now
safe and light of heart ; and that in some way he himself had told me
so. We talked long, and the girls were too excited for sleep, though the
unreliable little French clock chimed three. But a blessed rest had fallen
on me and I went off to "a sleep that sank into my soul," deep and dreamless,
from which I did not wake until ten the next day, when my eyes opened to
see my father sitting by my bedside. He had been guarding my sleep a long
time —in fact the whole household were protecting it as the crisis of a fever.
*****
With sleep and appetite strength soon returned, but the true " good-
medicine " was my absolute certainty of safety for Mr. Fremont.
* * * * *
We all talked it over with friends, often. There was no way to verify
what Mr. Fremont's part had been during those two weeks. We must wait
until, his journey over, by summer at the earliest, he should reach San
Francisco, and then the only mail was nearly a month, vid the Isthmus.
But in early April there came to Washington, overland, a Mormon elder,
named Babitt, from the settlement of Parowan in (now) South Utah. Mr.
Babitt brought us letters from Mr. Fremont written at Parowan, and added
many details of personal intelligence.
*****
Now the fact was verified that there had been a starving time ; that it had
lasted through January into the next month ; that the last fortnight had
been desperately, almost fatally exhausting—quite so to [one man]. This
fortnight was the period during which I knew of their starving.
The relief came to them when they got into Parowan—the evening of the
sixth of February—when I was made to know that also, that same night.
Every family took in some of the men, putting them into warm rooms and
clean comfortable beds, and kind-faced women gave them reviving food and
pitying words. Mr. Fremont's letters could not say enough of the gentle,
patient care of these kind women. And of his own " great relief of mind."
After this we heard no more until the twenty-fifth of May, when he
telegraphed from New York as his steamer got in from Aspinwall, and by
set of sun he was again at home.
Soon he was told by my father of what I have been telling you here. His
lawyer-habit of mind had made him minutely verify what we three women
had to tell, but there was a point beyond—the point of Time.
As nearly as we could settle it, two a.m. was the hour I had the flash of
information that all was well again. The girls had stayed out later than
usual as it was an assembly of family friends for a marriage festivity, and the
long rough drive over frozen mud of the old Washington streets was neces
sarily slow. Our old coachman objected to being out after twelve and we saw
April, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 57
with a little quake that it was nearly one when they came in. After that
came the undressing, the leisurely hair-brushing, the long gossip over the
evening as they took their tea ; and this brought it to about two o'clock.
Time did not enter much into our former easy-going Southern lives, and we
were three young women amused, comfortable—and what did it matter an
hour more or less ?
Next morning, when the baggage came, the journal of that time was
taken out and we read the entry for the night of their arrival at Parowan,
the bringing up of the journal to the latest waking hour being a fixed habit.
We read: "Parowan, February 6th, llh. 30m. p.m.," and the brief record of
the arrival, their safety and comfort, and the goodness of everyone to them.
He had been around to each of his party for a thankful good-night, and had
seen them each in warm beds ; he wrote of the contrast to the bad days just
past and of his own quiet room with its fire of logs and " the big white bed "
waiting, him, to which he must go now, for he was "fatigued" and it was
near midnight. Then there followed the wish that I could know of this
comfort and of his mind at ease.
And, at that moment, I did know. For the difference of longitude
makeSjWashington two hours and twenty-three minutes later than Parowan,
so that llh. 30m. p.m. there would be in Washington lh. 53m. a.m.—
" about " two o'clock !
*****
Jessie Benton Fremont.
Mrs. Fremont writes to Mr. Hodgson:—
Los Angeles, California, February 12th, 1889.
It gratifies me that what I have always known to be a singular experience
should interest your society. In answer to inquiries, of those present there
is only now one living witness—my cousin Mary Benton. I have written
for her present address, as early in the winter she went to a grandchild in
Virginia.
Was not the General there 1 How could he know my sister was with me
unless he saw us ?
She heard no voice, saw no form, but instantly knew on seeing me that I
had seen Mr. Fremont. Mary only saw that I "had seen something"—enough
to startle her from her usual balanced repose of mind. But I both heard the
voice, though but in the uttering my name ; felt the light touch on my
shoulder and knew I was to make no warning, for he wanted to make Susy
scream. She was but eight years old when he married into the family and
was always a pet p aymate. Her shrill prolonged scream was his delight,
and he never lost a chance to startle her. She was a sound-nerved, healthy
young thing, just twenty—unmarried, and about equally dividing her life
between her piano and her horse, on which she rode hours daily. This
sister died in 1874. Another sister [Mrs. E. Benton Jones], then at my
father's, knew of it at once.
It was quite the only time I ever knew, or in any way was impressed
with the danger to Mr. Fremont ; though he had had other experiences
of prolonged starvation, and often of deadly danger in other ways. I
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1891.
was in my usual good health—unusual health always and at that age, only
thirty ; my nerves were unshaken. I had my regular occupations of family
life and the usual full life of Washington in winter. My mother's ill-
health made my sister and myself her representatives also. The mornings
were regularly full of the children's lessons, their French governess living
with me, and altogether there was nothing to let morbid fancies grow up,
when suddenly came this certainty of starvation to the party, increasing as
we afterwards knew with the increasing danger. Exercise, more varied
occupation—nothing removed this fixed impression. When, just as suddenly
as it came, it was taken from me.
Why I was so warned at this time, and not at other times, has often been
a question to me. I was at home " among my own people,"—everything in
contented, placid routine of home happiness, and suddenly it was broken, as
it never had been before, by my following in mind the distant exploring
party.
I cannot give any more details. Often I have regretted our not putting
it all on record at the time.
Jessie Benton Fremont.
Later Mrs. Fremont writes :—
Los Angeles, March 15th, 1889.
I send you the enclosed letter from Mrs. Warren—the Mary Benton of
our singular experience—because, as you will notice, she speaks of their
anxiety for me during the long sleep that followed that comforting im
pression.
Jessie Benton Fremont.
The following is an extract from the letter enclosed :—
Muir, Fayette Co., Ky., March 9th, 1889.
I think I fully understand what you want, and will try to give as correctly
as I can my testimony to your " modern ghost story." But to me it is very
real, and your version of it correct, as I remember it that night. I never
shall forget how anxious we all felt until you awoke from that prolonged
sleep. But I little dreamed then that, after the lapse of so many years, I
should be called on to testify to the reality of it. . . .
M. Benton Warren.
Subsequently Mrs. Warren wrote to Mr. Hodgson :—
Muir, Fayette Co., Ky., April 3rd, 1889.
I have your note of inquiry concerning the correctness of the account,
given recently by Mrs. General Fremont in the Wide Awake. I have seen
the account to which you refer, and also had a letter from Mrs. Fremont on
the subject.
I can answer without hesitation that the version given by her of this
incident is a true and correct one. I was a guest in Mrs. Fremont's house
at the time, and an eye-witness to all that she has so correctly stated, under
the head of " A Modern Ghost Story," in the Wide Awake.
M. Benton Warren.
April, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 59
Mrs. Fremont's surviving sister, Mrs. E. Benton Jones, writes to Mr.
Hodgson :—
Paris, March 31st, 1889.
In answer to your letter respecting the article in the Wide Awake by Mrs.
Fremont, I can confirm all she wrote. While, as she says, we were so
accustomed to seeing Mr. Fremont return home safely from his long and
perilous journeys, still that winter we had some uneasiness from the fact
that he did not have his old and trusted guide, Kit Carson, with him. Mrs.
Fremont became very anxious and so much so as to make us all concerned for
her—the belief of the starvation to the party affecting her so much as to
make her unable to take sufficient nourishment herself. So the relief to her
was great when the " vision," as we all felt it to be, came to her.
That there is some curious connection of mind between us and those we
care for cannot be doubted, and has in many cases been well attested. My
father himself, at different times, had that realising sense of another's
presence, though, while a man of fine sensibilities, he was not what would be
called an imaginative man.
I do not recall any other circumstances than those given by Mrs.
Fremont. We were all so thankful to see her mind relieved that it was
hailed with delight.
E. Benton Jones.
General Fremont writes:—
Los Angeles, July 15th, 1889.
Enclosed I send you the promised statement of my share in the
experience related by Mrs. Fremont. I thought it well to sketch briefly the
circumstances which led up to the condition in which I reached Parowan at
the time to which her statement refers.
John C. Fremont.
In November of 1853 I set out on a winter expedition across the
continent. Efforts towards opening up the western country had already
taken practical shape. The long trains of emigrant waggons working along
difficult and dangerous roads were enforcing the necessity of railways to
the Pacific. Organised efforts were being made to accomplish this. As
befals every good measure, strong opposition was being made to this, and,
among other arguments, it was urged that the snows on the wide sweep of
the great plains and in the Rocky Mountains would present insurmountable
obstacles. To ascertain by personal observation and experience what were
in fact the obstructions which the winter of those regions would oppose to a
railway, was the object of this expedition.
Emerging from the settlements of the Missouri frontier, I met at the
outset the approach of an early winter ; but game was abundant on the
prairies, the snow there light, and there was no hardship worthy of note
until we were fairly engaged among the mountains. The line which I had
in view to follow lay across the mountains by the heads of the Rio del
Norte and the Colorados of the Gulf of California. Up to the San Luis
Valley and the head waters of the Del Norte there had been sufficient game,
and for our animals grass enough. But, entering the mountain region of
the Colorado waters beyond, the game suddenly faded, and on that side
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1S91.
there was deep snow, though outside of drifts only some four feet on the
level in small valleys and bottoms among the hills. It proved that in this
region the valleys were barren, only the mountains fertile. We had to keep
to these for what of grass or game was to be had. It became difficult for the
animals to find enough to keep up their strength, and of the few that
remained serviceable the best were kept for the hunters, who had to cover
wide tracts in search of game. The rest of the party were on foot. Shortly,
the men grew weak upon scanty fare, hard work by day and guard by night,
and hunger soon lengthened into starvation. This made progress slow, and
when we issued from the mountains into the valley of the Colorado River
the broken line of our half-starved men, straggling across the naked desert
of the great valley, did not much resemble the well-equipped party of hardy
men which had left the Missouri a few months back. All were now existing
on mule meat. We crossed the river at the head of one of the great canons,
and were soon again involved among the snowfields of the mountains.
There remained now only the bed of the Wahsatch ranges to cross. Here,
for the first and only time in much travelling through inhospitable lands, I
fairly gave out. Going up a long mountain slope, I was breaking my way
through the snow a little way ahead of the party, when suddenly my strength
gave out. All power of motion left me ; I could not move a foot. The
mountain slope was naked, but it just happened that near by was a good
thick grove of aspens, and across a neighbouring ravine the yellow grass
showed above the snow on a south hillside. Saying to Godey, as he came up,
that I would camp there, I sat down in the snow, and waited. After a few
moments, strength enough came back, and no one noticed what had hap
pened. The next day we came upon a good camping ground, when I made
a halt and disencumbered the party of everything not absolutely necessary.
Here I had good observations, and was able to tell my men that we
were only 50 miles in air line from the Mormon town of Parowan, in the
great basin. This certainty of near relief nerved them up to effort, and in a
few days more we forced our way across the last ridges of the Wahsatch
mountains.
With the exception of one man who could not hold out, and died from
starvation just as we came out of the mountains, I had brought my people
safely through. It had been a narrow chance.
At the foot of the last hill we struck a waggon road, leading to the town
of Parowan, and shortly after came upon a camp of Utah Indians.
Among them was the son of a chief whom I knew. At our last meeting I
had given the son a knife. He was pleased to see me, and, remembering,
gave me a dog, which, together with some flour that we traded from the
Indians, made for us all a welcome feast, except for my Delawares. They
made for themselves with the flour a kind of paste with which they filled
up, and in consequence startled the night with many groans. The next day
we reached Parowan. We were received there by all the people with
genuine hospitality, and everything a generous kindness could suggest was
done for our comfort. Good quarters in the town were provided for all, and
fresh clothing, good food, and the luxury of a real bed, made recent hard
ships seem like a bad dream.
April, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 61
That night I made in my notebook the entry of which Mrs. Fremont
speaks. I had some work with the stars which was of special interest to me,
and I sat up by my camp fire far into the night, dreaming of home, thinking
how happy Mrs. Fremont would be if only she could know that I was safe.
I knew that at home the uncertain nature of my journey was well under
stood, and that there was constant anxiety to know how it had fared with
me.
My work over, I returned to my quarters in the town, only a few hundred
yards away. The warm, bright room and big white bed, with all their sug
gestions of shelter and relief from danger, fell in with what I had been
thinking, and made the picture of home rise up like a real thing before me,
and when, as was my habit at the close of a day's work, I took up my
journal, I put there the wish that had possession of my mind—that Mrs.
Fremont could only know that all danger was past and that it was well with
me.
John C. Fremont.
It is an interesting point about the next case that though the agent's
wish to communicate what was passing must have been strong, she can
hardly have wished to impress the actual percipient.
L. 874. Ae P8 Child Percipient.
From Mr. Edward Crewdson, Jun., of Tuckerville, Chester Co.,
Nebraska, U.S.A.
Mr. Crewdson explains that at the time of the occurrence described
he owned two ranches in Nebraska, called the " East " and " West "
ranches. On the former he resided with his family. The other
consisted of three sections, partially separated from one another by a
section of Government land. In order to acquire a piece of this to
connect two of his sections, certain conditions were necessary, of which
continuous residence for six months was one. He was building a
" frame house " there for this purpose, and meanwhile had a sod-house
built and went over every week with one or two of his three sons to
stay a night or two.
He continues :—
This brings me to about March 20th, 1885. My wife expected to have a
baby towards the end of April. March 20th (as nearly as I can remember)
I was leaving the East Banche as usual, with blankets, food, &c., for the two
eldest boys and myself, when the youngest boy Hugh came running out cry
ing and begged to be taken. I forgot to mention that the three girls were at
school in England. Mrs. Crewdson was standing by the buckboard, bidding
us good-bye, and said, " Oh yes, do take Hughie, and I will have a thorough
rest till you come back." So Hughie jumped up and we left. The West
Ranche is 15 miles from the East, and we got there about 6.30. I cooked our
supper, had a pipe, and I suppose by 9.30 or 10 we were all sound asleep.
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1891.
How long I slept I could not tell, but I was awakened by Hughie, who was
sleeping with me, sitting up and crying, ' ' Oh, pa ! pa ! " " What is it, Hughie % ' '
" Oh, pa, there is a little baby in bed with mamma." Now the child had no
idea there was one expected—could have had none, for our children are
absurdly innocent, even the older ones—tawkwardly innocent at times. It
was so strange, and I was so thoroughly awake that I did not go to sleep for
some time, and was on the point of getting up and driving home, but felt that
if there was nothing I should look so very foolish.
In the morning I hurried through my business, telling the last man my
reason for cutting him short. Before I was five miles away from the ranche
a cowboy met me with the news that a baby had been born in the night.
We were without servants at the time, and though my old Scotch foreman
had done his best in sending off for the nearest women and the doctor
(20 miles off), my wife had a very trying time, and it is quite possible that
her intense wish for me may have had something to do with Hughie's
communication.
Hughie is a very sensitive and clever boy—too clever. He wants no
encouragement, but rather holding back ; not delicate in any way—none of
our children are, I am thankful to say—but a sort of child who understands
an explanation before you have said a dozen words ; very excitable ; will wake
up, scream, and shiver if he has been too long in the schoolroom. The
cowboys, of course, got up all sorts of ideas, which I paid no attention to—
such as that they had long known that Hughie knew instinctively if it was
going to rain, especially thunder rain.
The farmer's name to whom I told the incident, before leaving the West
Ranche, is James Whitehead ; his address is Redfern, &c.
Edw. Cbewdson, Jun.
November Wth, 1889.
In answer to inquiries, Mr. Crewdson says :—
Hughie was 4J years old. His exclamation occurred just at the time
or shortly after the birth of our baby. He simply stated it as a fact and did
not say if he dreamt it or not, but, as he jumped up suddenly awakened, it
seems likely that he dreamt it. No explanation was ever asked, nor could
he, I think, have given one.
We wrote to Mr. Whitehead, who now resides at Broken Bow,
Nebraska, and he replied :—
January 27th, 1891.
The circumstances you call upon me to corroborate are substantially as
follows.
Mr. Crewdson, with three of his boys, was at his "West Ranche, "looking
after his interests there. His wife remained at Tuckerville some 18 miles
distant. Some time during the night he was awakened by his youngest boy
Hughie, about 3J years old—nicknamed "Bah"—who said, " Pa,pa, ma
has a little baby in bed with her." "Nonsense, 'Bah.' What makes you
April, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 63
think that ? " asked the father. " Because I saw it laying beside her in the
bed," the child replied.
The next morning, having some business with Mr. C, I visited hisranche,
about one mile distant from my farm. With considerable relish and amuse
ment he related his dream to me. Coming from a child so young, who could
not possibly be aware of the condition of its mother, the time of whose con
finement was drawing near, yet not sufficiently near at hand (as was
supposed) to excite anxiety on the part of Mr. Crewdson owing to his enforced
absence, the dream impressed me at the time as being remarkable. Later
on, the same day, Mr. C. remained at my place, and took dinner, repeating
the dream to myself and family.
Starting for home, while still in sight, he met the young man (Mr.
Morgan) he had left in charge at Tuckerville, who informed him that Mrs.
Crewdson had given birth to a child during the night, about the hour he had
been awakened by the child to hear his dream. Mr. C. hurried on home. Mr.
Morgan, who was on horseback, rode up to my door, and remarked,
" Hughie's dream is true."
Jambs Whitehead.
The next case differs from the preceding ones in that, so far as we
know, the agent had no wish to convey any information about himself
to the percipient or any one connected with her.
L. 875. Ae Pn Borderland. Auditory.
The following account was sent to Mr. H. Venman, an Associate of
the Society, by Mr. Harrison, on the day of the occurrence described.
In an accompanying letter Mr. Harrison says : " Everything happened
exactly as stated." In the absence of detailed correspondence between
the impression and the accident, the evidential value of the case
depends on the exactness of the coincidence in the time of their
occurrence, which seems to be well established.
February 7th, 1891.
I reside with my husband at 15, Lupton-street, N.W. This afternoon I
was lying on the sofa, sound asleep, when I suddenly awoke, thinking I heard
my husband sigh as if in pain. I rose immediately, expecting to find him in
the room. He was not there, and looking at my watch I found it was half-
past three. At 6 o'clock my husband came in. He called my attention to a
bruise on his forehead, which was caused by his having knocked it against
the stone steps in a Turkish bath. I said to him, "I know when it
happened : it was at half-past 3, for I heard you sigh as if in pain at
that time." He replied, "Yes, that was the exact time, for I remember
noticing the clock directly after."
The gentleman who appends his name as witness was present when this
conversation took place.
Louisa E. Harbison.
Witness : Henry Hooton, 23, Bunhill-row, E.C.
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1891.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Continued from the March Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
will be gratefully received.
BL94. Ad Pn Raps at Death. Borderland.—Mr. P. J. Teale informs
us that in July, 1886, he was awakened by hearing three knocks. After an
interval of 10 minutes the knocks occurred again, and Mr. Teale went to the
bedroom door. After another interval he heard them again, and this time
he went to the street door. Mrs. Teale, who was in the same room, heard
nothing, chough Mr. Teale woke her when he first heard the knocks. Next
day news was brought of the unexpected death of Mr. Teale's mother, which
had taken place about 8.30. in the preceding evening. Recorded same
month.
B L 95. Dreams. —Mr. T. Ross Scott has three vivid and horrifying
dreams of a mysterious-looking man, similar to the sketch of Whitechapel
murderer which he subsequently sees in Stuart Cumberland's paper, The
Mirror. The first dream did not correspond with anything, but the last two
were on the same nights as Whitechapel murders. Confirmation from his
sister in the last case. Recorded December, 1889, three months after the
third dream.
BL96. Ad P Visual.—A. R. (housemaid) saw herfiance on August 6th,
1888, at the moment when—according to a letter shown by her two days
later to her mistress—he died, calling her name. This letter is destroyed,
the place of death is unknown, and no death at that date of a person of the
name given appears to be registered in the United Kingdom ; nor is other
evidence of the death forthcoming. We have an account of the apparition
written by A. R.'s mistress, the day after it happened.
B L 97. A P Visual. Borderland. 2nd hand.—Mr. E. F. Wright
informed us in November, 1888, that "some years ago" a Captain Ames
related that when lying awake one afternoon he (the Captain) saw the figure
of his father standing by his berth. He caused a note to be made in the
log. On his return he found that his father had died at the time. Captain
Ames cannot be traced.
B L 98. A<1 P" Visual. 2nd hand.—Naval lieutenant sees apparition
of sister on bridge of his steamer. Vision persists while he makes a
note. Some months afterwards he learns that sister died at the same hour.
This is recorded by Mr. W. Clark Russell in September, 1887. Mr. Clark
Russell tells us that he received the account from the percipient, prefers not
to give the name without permission, and does not know his address.
B L 99. Ae P Visual. Borderland. 2nd hand, good as 1st.—C. W.
Rohner, M.D., and children are out driving in March, 1869. Child of four
falls out of carriage, injures skull, and left temple bleeds freely. Mrs.
Rohner, ill in bed at home, sees apparition of Dr. R. with sad countenance
and a stream of blood running from his left temple over white coat to end of
trousers. Dr. R. adds: "This unwelcome news was thus'gently broached to
my sick wife." Account first appeared in Light, May 28th, 1887.
B L 100.—Mrs. Godber informs us that standing at the window expect
ing Mr. Barker to dinner, she saw him approach and pass front garden. She
retreated to dish up dinner, but as he did not arrive she returned to the
window after some minutes and saw him again approaching. This time it
was the real Mr. Barker. Mr. Barker sent us an account on the day of the
occurrence—October 7th, 1890, and Mrs. Godber sent her account six days
later.
No. LXXX.-Voi,. VI. Mat, 1891.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
New Members and Associates 65
Meeting of the Council 66
General Meeting 66
Hypnotism as an Anaesthetic in Practice in England 67
Cases received by the Literary Committee 6S
Correspondence :—
" G " Cases 77
Clairvoyance Forty Years ago 78
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases 79
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBER.
Dr. Darikx, 6, Rue du Bellay, Paris.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
Kirk, Joseph, 1, Ripon-villas, Upper Ripon-road, Plumstead, S.E.
Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., Smithsonian Institution,Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
MEMBERS.
Nicoll, Augustus, M.B., " Ventnor," Chislehurst.
Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Islands.
ASSOCIATES.
Boyd, C. W., 7, Abbotsford-crescent, St. Andrews, N.B.
Coombe, Miss, Blackburn House, Liverpool.
Cope, Rev. C. H., M.A., 12, Quai des Teinturiers, Bruges, Belgium.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 2, Edinburgh-terrace, Kensington, W.
Laing, R. M., M.A., B.Sc., Boys' High School, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Mulholland, Mrs., 10, De Vesci-terrace, Kingstown, Co. Dublin.
Robinson, Edward, 4, Castelnau-gardens, Barnes, S.W.
Thorold, Edward S., Larkby, Exeter.
Warburton, Rev. Walter T., M.A., The Vicarage, Rock Ferry,
Birkenhead.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Brown, Delass S., 309, Main-street, Peoria, I11., U.S.A.
Carey, Mrs. Arthur, 1, Brimmer-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1891.
Cone, J. W., Union, Wilson Co., Texas, U.S.A.
Evans, Miss M. S., Chester-square, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Ford, Professor Darius R., D.D., Elinora College, New York, U.S. A.
Ghost, A. M., Room 16, Ghost Block, Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
Goodwin, Warren C, West-town Boarding School, West-town, Pa.
Jewett, Miss S. C, c/o Mrs. James T. Fields, 148, Charles-street,
Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Phelps, Orwin A., Gaylord, Mich., U.S.A.
Porter, Charles A., 5, Arlington-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Stebbins, Walter G., 17, St. James'-avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on April 17th, the President
in the chair. There were also present :—Dr. A. T. Myers, Messrs. W,
Crookes, F. W. H. Myers, and R. Pearsall Smith.
The minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
On the proposition of Mr. Myers, Dr. Dariex, of Paris, was elected
a Corresponding Member of the Society for the current year.
Mr. Joseph Kirk and Dr. R. W. Shufeldt were elected Honorary
Associates for the current year.
Two new Members and nine new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of eleven new
Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
The decease of Dr. J. D. Morell, a Member of the Society, was
recorded.
Various matters of business having been attended to, the Council
agreed to meet at the Society's Rooms, at 4.30 p.m., on Friday, the
29th of May.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 45th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, April 17th, at 4 p.m.; the President in
the chair.
Selections were read by Mr. Myers from the material collected
for a forthcoming paper by Mr. Hodgson on the trance phenomena of
Mrs. Piper observed in America.
A paper by Dr. Alfred Backman, of Kalmar, Sweden, describing
some experiments and observations on clairvoyance with persons
hypnotised by himself and with others, was read by Mr. Podmore.
This paper will probably appear in the next number of the Proceedings,
May, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 67
The President, in commenting on it, noted, as a specially interest
ing case, one in which the clairvoyant had apparently been able to
some extent to impress herself on the person whose surroundings she
was perceiving, though the fact that the attempt was being made was
quite unknown to him. The case thus became one of the comparatively
rare but important class distinguished in Phantasms of the Living as
" reciprocal " cases. He also noted, as interesting and somewhat
peculiar, Dr Backman's experience that he could make his clairvoyants
remember after waking the impressions they had received in trance,
and that they could sometimes supplement the information they had
given in trance, through their greater power of co-ordinating their ideas
in a waking state.
HYPNOTISM AS AN ANAESTHETIC IN PRACTICE
IN ENGLAND.
During the last few months there have been some records in the
English medical Press of the successful application of hypnotism by
three Members of this Society, in some cases where pain would other
wise have been acute. Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, of Goole, demonstrated
about a year ago {Brit. Med. Journal, April 5th, 1890, p. 801), to many
of the leading doctors and dentists of Leeds and the neighbourhood,
how practicable it was to produce by hypnotism complete anaesthesia to
the pain of extraction of the stumps of sixteen teeth at one operation,
or to the surgical dressing of a large, deep-seated abscess in the cheek.
To some patients who had been previously often hypnotised, it was
sufficient to send a command by letter that they should go to sleep at
once and obey the dentist's orders during an operation, and such a
command was cheerfully and intelligently obeyed, and no pain felt
whilst three double teeth were drawn. Again, to a large meeting last
February (Brit. Med. Journal, February 28th, 1891, pp. 460-468) of the
Leeds and West Riding Medico Chirurgical Society, Dr. Bramwell
showed a case in which Mr. H. Bendelack Hewetson had performed the
surgical operation for correcting a squint under the anaesthesia of
hypnotism only ; and Mr. Hewetson called attention to the fact that
he had found such anaesthesia complete in many other surgical operations
on the eye. Dr. Bramwell also illustrated the use of patient repetition
of attempts at hypnotisation by giving the history of a patient of his
who had suffered for many months most distressing discomfort from a
disease of the skin, and whom he had tried to hypnotise 67 times
without success. On the 68th trial, however, he had succeeded in pro
ducing complete somnambulism, and in putting an end to the discomfort
entirely and for good.
G8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1891.
Dr. G. C. Kingsbury, of Blackpool, has also found hypnotic
anaesthesia useful in various ways, notably in the case of a girl who
was expecting a dangerous and painful confinement before she was
fifteen (Brit. Med. Journal, 1891, p. 460). He found her a good
subject, and prudently trained her to obey his orders by hypnotising
her twelve times, and satisfied himself of the complete anaesthesia pro
duced. At the first signs of the birth of the child he found no
difficulty in keeping her for four hours in a state of hypnotic somnam
bulism, in which she felt no pain at all, but would receive and obey his
orders. She passed through the whole of a critical period without
consciousness and without danger, and, after the birth of a healthy
child, was awakened to find herself without pain and without recol
lection of pain. A. T. M.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 876. Ae P"
The following instance of a visual impression, of a communication
which the agent was at the moment anxious to make to the per
cipient, is analogous to some auditory cases printed in the Journals for
March and April. It is sent to us by Mr. Robert Lodge, Associate of
the Society. The letters are addressed to him by a relative :—.
50, Adelaide Square, Bedford, February 17th, 1891.
In answer to your request I send you account about the telegram.
On the 27th of April, 1889, we were expecting my sister-in-law and her
daughter from South America. My wife, being away from home, was unable
to meet them at Southampton, so an intimate friend of the family, a Mr. P. ,
offered to do so. It was between Derby and Leicester about 3.30 p.m. My
wife was travelling in the train. She closed her eyes to rest, and at the
same moment a telegram paper appeared before her with the words,- ' ' Come
at once, your sister is dangerously ill." During the afternoon I received a
telegram from Mr. P. to my wife, worded exactly the same and sent from
Southampton 3.30 p.m. to Bedford. On my wife's arrival home about 9 p.m.,
I deferred communicating it until she had some refreshment, being very
tired. I afterwards made the remark, "I have some news for you," and
she answered, "Yes, I thought so, you have received a telegram from Mr.
P. ! " I said, " How do you know 1 " She then told me the contents and
her strange experiences in the train, and that it impressed her so much that
she felt quite anxious all the rest of the journey.
With regard to the above, my wife had no idea of her sister being ill, and
was not even at the time thinking about them, but was thinking about her
own child she had just left at a boarding school. Also the handwriting my
wife saw, she recognised at once to be Mr. P. 's. But then, again, he would
have been writing on a white paper form, and the one she saw was the
usual brown coloured paper. Frepk, L. Lodge.
May, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 69
In reply to inquiries, Mr. F. Lodge wrote as follows :—
The letter I sent you, with account of vision, I wrote from my wife's
dictation. After it occurred in the train she took notice of the hour, and
from the time marked on the telegram of its despatch from Southampton, we
at once remarked it must have occurred as Mr. P. was filling in a form at
Southampton. Mr. P. is now in South America constructing a railway
line, and will not return to England for about a year. The occurrence
was mentioned to him.
Two years having elapsed, my wife could not say the exact time now, but
it was between 3 and 4 p.m., although when it happened, we did notice from
the telegram that the time corresponded. Fbedk. L. Lodge.
The two following cases, in both of which the same percipient was
concerned, come to us through the American Branch of the Society.
In the first, the conscious desire of the agent seems to have been the
predetermining cause of the percipient's impression, and in this it
resembles the preceding case.
L. 877. Ae Pn Motor impulse.
The percipient, Mrs. Hadselle, writes to Mr. Hodgson as follows :—.
28, Bradford Street, Pittsfield, Mass., May 28th, 1888.
Less than two years ago a curious thing happened to me. I had been in
Wash. Co., N.Y., giving half a dozen readings, and was on my way to
Williamstown, where I had spent a part of the summer, and where much of my
worldly goods, in the shape of wearing apparel, was safely stowed in my room
at the "Mansion House." With ticket purchased, I was serenely seated in
the car, ' ' box, bundle, and bag " beside me, the conductor's ' 'All aboard " was
at that instant in my ears, when I sprang to my feet with the force of an
inward command, " Change your ticket and go to Elizabeth (N.J.). Change
your ticket and go to Elizabeth. Change your " Here a gentleman in the
opposite seat—an utter stranger—rose and said: "Madam, have you for
gotten something, can I help you 1 " I said : ' ' Do you think the train will
wait for me to change my ticket 1 " For there appeared to be no alternative.
As I spoke I moved towards the platform ; he followed, and seeing that the
office was but a few steps distant said : " Go, I'll see that you are not left."
I did go, and in a moment more was on my way to Elizabeth, though I had not
before even thought of such a thing. Next morning, on reaching my friend's
house, she threw her arms about me and sobbed out : ' ' Oh, I have wanted
you so." Then she led me to a room where an only and beloved sister lay
in life's last battle. In an hour it was ended.
My poor grief-stricken friend declared then—declares now—that my
sudden change of purpose was a direct answer to her repeated though
unspoken demand for my presence. And who shall say it was not ? I wish
to add that while I had learned by letter of the sister's illness of a chronic
disorder, I did not suppose her case hopeless ; indeed from the fact that no
tidings had reached me lately, was hoping that she was on the road to
recovery, and had I been questioned concerning her that 10th of November,
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1891.
1886, should have replied confidently, " She will without doubt last through
the winter." My friend, by the way, is, much more than I, a believer in
psychical phenomena.
(Signed) C. A. C. Hadsellb.
Mr. Hodgson writes :—
Mrs. G.—the friend referred to—has sent me her corroboration dated
March 5th, 1890. The date of the incident, she states, was November 11th,
1886. She says :—
"I had not expected Mrs. H. ; did not at that time know where she
was, so could not have summoned her had I wished to do so,—tbut in my
trouble there grew upon me a great desire for her presence, and I said many
times, ' If she only would come. If she were only here.'
"My sister's failure at the last was somewhat rapid, but of this Mrs. H.
knew nothing, and when she told me of her sudden change of purpose,
hundreds of miles away, I said, ' The impulse was sent you in answer to my
wish,' or words to that effect."
The gentleman who helped Mrs. Hadselle to change her ticket, the
Rev. James Wilson, then of Greenwich, N.Y., writes in answer to Mr.
Hodgson's inquiries :—
March 20th, 1890.
I recollect the circumstance of " assisting a lady " at Greenwich ticket
office, who exchanged her ticket at the last moment, because of a change of
purpose ; and it was in November, 1886. She sent me a few lines after
wards, detailing certain facts touching a sick friend at the point of her
destination—not clearly recalled at this moment.
J. T. Wilson.
L. 878. Ae Pn Impression.
Mrs. Hadselle sent at the same time another narrative, of which she
said :—
I send you with this a bit of experience which I had years ago—so long
ago indeed as the time Dr. Holland edited the Springfield Republican.
He wrote me that the "Warning" was copied from Maine to California, and
that he received many letters asking if it was authentic. To this he could
safely reply, as I was an old-time contributor to that and other leading
journals. A local paper lately copied it. Many of the then witnesses have
with Dr. Holland and my darling "Eddie " (Kleber Loomis Hadselle) gone
over to the "great majority," but there are several still living who remember
the episode, and no one of my acquaintances doubts or thinks the sketch
overdrawn.
The account is taken from the Berkshire County Eagle, May 10th,
1888, Pittsfield, Mass., and headed "The Unspoken Warning—A
Mother's Experience."
One bitter oold day in winter a merry party of us, nestled down under
furry robes, went to meet an appointment with a friend living a few miles
May, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 71
distant, with whom we were to spend the afternoon and in the evening attend
aa concert to be held near by. The sleighing was delightful, the air keen and
inspiriting, the host and hostess genial as the crackling fires in the grates,
and the invited guests, of whom there were many besides ourselves, in that
peculiar visiting trim which only old-time friends, long parted, can enjoy.
Restraint was thrown aside ; we cracked jokes ; we chattered like magpies,
and not a little of the coming concert, which promised a rare treat to our
unsophisticated ears. All went merry as a marriage bell, and merrier than
some, till just before tea, when I was seized with a sudden and unaccountable
desire to go home, accompanied by a dread or fear of something, I knew not
what, which made the return appear, not a matter of choice, but a thing
imperative. I tried to reason it away, to revive anticipations of the concert ;
I thought of the disappointment it would be to those who came with me to
give it up, and running over in my mind the condition in which things were
left at home, could find no ground for alarm.
For many years a part of the house had been rented to a trusty family ;
our children were often rocked in the same cradle, and half of the time eat
at the same table ; locks and bolts wore things unused, and in deed as in
word we were neighbours. In their care had been left a boy of ten years,
the only one of the family remaining at home, who knew that when he
returned from school he was expected to bring in wood and kindlings for the
morning fire, take supper alone, or with little Clara E., as he chose, and
otherwise pass the time as he pleased, only that he must not go into the street
to play, or on to the pond to skate. He had been left many times in this
way, and had never given occasion for the slightest uneasiness ; still, as this
nameless fear grew upon me, it took the form of a conviction that danger of
some sort threatened this beloved child.
I was rising to go and ask Mr. A. to take me home, when someone said,
" You are very pale ; are you ill ? " "No," I answered, and dropping back
in the chair, told them how strangely I had been exercised for the last few
minutes ; adding, "I really must go home." There was a perfect chorus of
voices against it, and for a little time I was silenced though not convinced.
Someone laid the matter before Mr. A., who replied, "Nonsense ; Eddie is a
good boy to mind, will do nothing in our absence that he would not do if we
were there, and is enjoying himself well at this moment, I'll warrant." This
answer was brought to me in triumph, and I resolved to do as they said,
" not to think about it." But at tea my trembling hand almost refused to
carry food to my lips, and I found it utterly impossible to swallow a mouth
ful. A death-like chill crept over me, and I knew that every eye was on
me as I left the room. Mr. A. rose, saying in a changed voice and without
ceremony, "Make haste ; bring the horse round, we must go right away.
I never saw her in such a state before; there is something in it." He
followed me to the parlour, but before he could speak I was pleading as for
dear life that not a moment be lost in storting for home. "I know," said I,
"it is not all imagination, and whether it is or not I shall certainly die, if
this dreadful incubus is not removed shortly."
All was now confusion : the tea table deserted, the meal scarce tested ;
and my friends, alarmed ax much at my looks as at my words, were as anxioue
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1891.
to hurry me off as they had been before to detain me. To me those terrible
moments seemed hours, yet I am assured that not more than half an hour
elapsed from the time my fears first found expression before we were on the
road toward home. A horse somewhat noted for fleetness was before us,
and with only two in the cutter—the rest stayed to concert, and made Mr.
A. promise that if nothing had happened we would return—went over the
road at a rapid pace. I knew from the frequent repetition of a peculiar
signal that the beast was being urged to his best, yet I grew sick with
impatience at the restraint. I wanted to fly. All this while my fears had
taken no definite shape. I only knew that the child was in danger, and felt
impelled to hurry to the rescue. Only once was the silence broken in that
three mile journey, and that was when the house was in full view, I said,
" Thank God, the house is not on fire." "That was my own thought," said
Mr. A., but there was no slackening of speed.
On nearing home a cheerful light was glimmering from Mrs. E.'s window ;
before the vehicle had fairly stopped we were clear of it, and opening the
door, said in the same breath, " Where's Eddie 1 " "Eddie 1 why, he was
here a little while ago," answered Mrs. E., pleasantly striving to dissipate
the alarm she saw written on our countenances. "He eat supper with the
children, and played awhile at marbles ; then spoke of Libby Rose having
a new picture book, and that he wanted to see it. You'll find him over
there." With swift steps Mr. A. crossed the street to the place mentioned,
but returned with " he has not been there." Eddie was remarkably fond of
skating, and my next thought was that he had been tempted to disobedience.
I said calmly, " We will go to the pond." I was perfectly collected; I could
have worked all night without fatigue with the nerves in that state of ten
sion ; but Mr. A. said, " No, you must go in and lie down. Eddie is safe
enough, somewhere about the village. I'll go and find him." But there
was nothing in the tone as in the words to reassure me.
As he spoke he crossed the hall to our own room and turned the knob.
The door was locked. What could that mean 1 Eddie was either on the
inside or had taken the key away with him. Mr. A. ran round to a window
with a broken spring which could be opened from the outside. It went up
with a clang, but a dense volume of smoke drove him back. After an
instant another attempt was made, and this time, on a lounge directly under
the window, he stumbled on the insensible form of little Eddie, smothered
in smoke. Limp and apparently lifeless he was borne into the fresh cold
air, and after some rough handling was restored to consciousness.
Eddie said, on returning from school, he made a good fire, and as the
wood was snowy thought he would put it in the oven to dry ; something he
had never done before. Then on leaving Mrs. E.'s room he went in for an
apple before going to see Libby Rose's picture book, and it seemed so nice
and warm he thought he would lie down a while. He could give no explana
tion as to what prompted him to turn the key : it was the first and last time ;
but this could have made no difference in the result, for no one would have
discovered the smoke in time to save his life. The wood in the oven was
burned to ashes, but as the doors were closed there was no danger of falling
embers setting the house on fire ; and had we stayed to the concert every
May, isoi.] Joilrnat of Society for Psychical Research. 73
thing would have been as when we left, except that little Eddie's voice would
never more have made music for our ears. Everyone said that with a delay
of five or even three minutes we should have been too late.
(Signed) Mrs. C. A. C. Hadselle.
In reply to inquiries, Mrs. Hadselle informed Mr. Hodgson that the
event took place about 1854, Eddie being then nine or ten years old.
Mr. A. is no longer living, but the lady at whose house the party met,
on being asked by Mrs. Hadselle what she could remember of the
circumstances, wrote :—
Albany, N.Y., January dth, 1891.
I remember distinctly the incident described by Mrs. Hadselle in her
sketch, "An Unspoken Warning." It was at my house that the little party
gathered for the old-fashion afternoon visit and tea. I remember well her
strange condition, arising from anxiety over the child, which had been
left at home. The statement made by her I believe to be true.
M. W. Rogers.
L. 879. Dream.
Sent to us in August, 1890, by Madame A. de Holstein, an Associate
of the Society, in French, and translated by us.
Madame Pokitonoff (of 15, Impasse Helene, Villa des Arts, Paris) dreamt
one night, a few years ago, that the nurse had smothered her little daughter,
who was then a few weeks old. She awoke with a start, woke her husband,
and told him her dream, begging him to go and see what was happening in
the child's room. Her husband went immediately, and he was only just in
time. The nurse, although she had been expressly forbidden to do so,
had taken the child into her own bed to nurse it, and having gone to sleep,
had all but smothered it. Monsieur Pokitonoff drew out the child from
beneath the nurse, blue and not breathing. They had much difficulty in
bringing it back to life again. Three other rooms, the doors of which were
closed, separated the child's room from that of its parents.
The above was related to me by Monsieur Pokitonoff, and confirmed by
his wife.
A. de Holstein.
29, Avenue de Wagram, Paris.
,. (Mathilde Pokitonoff.
* •* ' \J. Pokitonoff.
M. CI. 22.
The following case, just received from America, appears to be an
instance of spontaneous clairvoyance, more or less analogous to some of
the hypnotic cases published in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper on Clairvoyance
in Part XVIII. of the Proceedings. The rapport between Mrs. T. and
her daughter produced by the latter's writing at the time, and the
rapport between Mrs. T. and Mrs. Logue due to their sitting together,
may have had something to do with the percipience. Evidentially,
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, isoi.
the case would, of course, have been stronger had Mrs. T.'s daughter
and son-in-law been identified at the time, and had notes been taken
at the time of the occurrence. The disagreement in detail in the
accounts of the witnesses is doubtless due to want of perfectly clear
recollection of the incident owing to lapse of time.
Mrs. T. writes :—
January 17th, 1891.
I was in Denver, Col., in May, 1888. Four ladies had agreed to meet
every Tuesday afternoon, to sit at a table, " to see what would happen "—
one of them being a "medium" so-called, though not a public one. We
had so met for several weeks, when Mrs. L.'s hand was "controlled" to
write a few lines, to the effect that we would soon be separated, and would
never meet there again. We met the next Tuesday, determining to frustrate
the prophecy. Mrs. L. soon asked me if I had anyone very ill at home.
I said, " Not that I knew of." "I see," she said, "a man lying very ill,
or badly hurt ; there are many around him, much confusion and great
anxiety. I also see a tall, pale lady writing to you ; I think you will be
called away from here soon." I could not connect it with anyone, although
the " tall, pale lady " might be my daughter.
The next morning I received a letter from my daughter in Indiana,
1,100 miles away, that her husband was quite ill—and the next morning
(Thursday) received a telegram that he had died a little after 12 o'clock
midnight—and before that night I was on my way eastward.
My son-in-law, a Presbyterian minister, greatly beloved by his congrega
tion, died after a very short illness of pneumonia ; and the description of
his surroundings (as far as they went) were perfectly correct, even to my
aughter's writing to me, which was taking place at or very near the time
Mrs. L. saw it.
I did not even think of connecting her "vision" with my son, as he
was apparently a robust man, and I had had no intimation of his illness.
How did Mrs. L. see what was passing 1, 100 miles away ? There was no
telepathy, unless she perceived my daughter's thought reaching out to me.
I don't understand it.
Later, Mrs. T. adds :—
January 27th, 1891.
Your note of the 22nd inst. at hand. As evidential value, it would
perhaps be better for you to communicate direct with the ladies present when
Mrs. Logue told me of her clairvoyant "vision." It was a picture presented,
or vision, which she declared, " I saw as plainly as I see you now." She
said the next day, when I met her accidentally, and told her that I had
received news of my son-in-law's illness, "I saw even more than I told
you, but you did not seem to recognise it—I am sure you will be called
away." Others coming up, she did not say what more she saw.
In the confusion caused by receipt of telegram, I did not think of preserv
ing it, nor did I make any "notes," as I was unacquainted at the time with
any possible value they might have in the future. I did not know of th
May, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 75
letter, or rather card, written by my daughter Tuesday afternoon (as it was
not delivered in our house in Denver until Friday morning—I left Thursday
evening) until I reached , and told of my experience, when she told
me that she wrote a card Tuesday afternoon. I found it in Denver last
winter in a drawer, where it was thrown after I left, but I destroyed it with
the other papers and letters before I returned to .
Mrs. Logue . . . stands very high as a conscientious and reliable
woman. She has had many very wonderful experiences through her own
msdiumship, and of a relative (I think) in St. Louis, Mo. ... in
whose presence most wonderful " manifestations " occur.
* S. T.
The following accounts are from the other ladies present :—
Denver, Colo., February 23rd, 1891.
In the spring of 1888 I organised a circle or a class of ladies for the study
and development of clairvoyance, clairaudience, and psychometry. All were
students of spiritual phenomena, meeting one afternoon each week. I will
only speak now of our last meeting, as it proved to be. We usually sat
around a small table, with paper, slates, and pencils for writing. After
sitting quietly for a short time my hand was controlled to write in verse a
few lines which I have forgotten now, but they were a prophecy that that
would be our last meeting. Then almost for the rest of the sitting all
influences seemed to surround Mrs. T. I saw and described several spirit
forms, giving some names, one whom she recognised as her mother, I giving
the mother's name, at the same time repeating the verse of a hymn. Mrs.
T. said it was a favourite hymn of her mother, who repeated it in her dying
hour. So it went on, the influences or controls quoting passages from the
Bible and hymns, all of a consoling nature, as though they were trying to
prepare her mind for a sad event, or for what did follow, the death of her
daughter's husband, but we did not understand it at the time. After sitting
our usual time, we got up from the table. While Mrs. T. was standing
before me talking, a great flash of light passed before my face, seeming to
transfix my gaze, and I saw a room with two persons in it ; one a man lying
on a cot or invalid's chair, quite sick ; the other a woman sitting at a table
and writing hurriedly, and so anxiously it seemed I could read her thoughts
before she penned them down. As to the result of the man's sickness, it
passed before my eyes, and I was once more myself among my class. I
hesitated about speaking to Mrs. T., though I knew it was for her, but
finally said, " Mrs. T., is there any one sick in your family ? " She thought
a moment and said not that she knew ; all were well the last letters from
home. " Why, what do you see ? is it for me?" I then told the class what
I had seen, and received the impression that it was a son of Mrs. T. 's ; that
it was a sudden and serious sickness ; that a letter had been written and was
on the way to her ; she would be sent for and leave the city in a short time,
which all proved true. She received the letter the next day, telling her of
her son-in-law's serious illness. As soon as Mrs. T. received the letter, she
came to me to see if I could tell her any more. I told her to prepare her
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1891.
mind for the worst, that she would receive a telegram to that effect, and
that she would leave the city that night or the next day, which she did.
(Signed) Mrs. M. A. Logue.
Mrs. M. E. Rourke.
Denver, February 27th, 1891.
I gladly comply with your request to write an account of my recollection
of the clairvoyant vision of Mrs. M. A. Logue recounted to you by
Mrs. S. T.
The event occurred about three years ago (the exact date I do not
remember), at the last of a series of sittings of some two months' duration,
in which Mrs. T., Mrs. Rourke, Mrs. Logue, and myself participated
regularly, Mrs. Logue being recognised by those who know her as both an
excellent woman and medium, or sensitive. At this particular meeting, after
a few moments' silence, Mrs. Logue laughed and said, "Well, I don't know
what it means, but I'll give it to you as I get it," and therewith read a
comical little rhyme, which her hand had been used to write, the purport of
which was that this was to be the last meeting of our little circle. Toward
the close of the sitting she saw and described a sick man in an invalid's chair,
and said she thought he was soon to "pass over," and also saw sitting at a
table writing with seeming haste and anxiety, a lady, whom she said she saw
so distinctly that she should recognise her if she should ever see her. She
told Mrs. T. that she would be called away very suddenly, she thought before
the close of the week, on account of this death, which was to occur to some
one nearly connected with her, she thought a son. The next day Mrs. T.
received information from her daughter of the very severe illness of the
latter's husband, whose death occurred before the close of the week, which
event caused Mrs. T. to leave Denver for Ind., and thus was fulfilled the
rhyming prophecy given us at the opening of our circle, as we have never
all met since that day. L. C. D.
We add an account of a seemingly premonitory vision, interesting
as being experienced by the same percipient. As evidence for the
reality of supernormal premonitions, however, the case is far from
strong, because the circumstances were too likely to suggest such a
vision ; as Mrs. Hartzell perceived when told of it.
P. CI. 136.
Richard Hodgson, Esq. Denver, Col., Febmary 23rd, 1891.
Dear Sir,—Can you or some one explain this 1 Some six or seven years
ago I had a dear friend who was a ladies' nurse. At this time she was
engaged, and living with a lady whom I shall call Mrs. K., who expected to
be confined at almost any moment. One night my friend called to see me to
chat a few moments, I living only a few blocks from Mrs. K. I was going
out when she came, going to see a friend. I invited her to go with me.
She said she would if I would promise not to stay long. Promising her I
would not, we went. Arriving at my friend's house, they wanted me to sit
for them. We formed a circle, the lady of the house, her husband, myself,
May, 189].] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 77
and friend. After sitting a short time, I saw the form of a woman stretched
out on a bed as one dead. At first I could not see the face plainly, for about
the faoe or jaws was a cloth, pinned under the jaw on one side of the face,
with one end of the cloth hanging loosely down. I looked at it for a few
moments ; I then could distinguish the features, and as I looked closely, I
recognised the form and features of Mrs. K. It so disturbed me that I made
some excuse and left the table, telling them what I saw, but not telling who
it was or looked like. When I left the house I told the nurse what I had
seen, and that it was Mrs. K. laid out as if she were dead. The nurse
laughed at me, although a medium herself, as well as having full faith and
knowledge in my mediumship, saying, "Now, Mrs. Logue, you only imagine
this because you think I ought to be at home with Mrs. K. " I said, " No,
Mrs. Hartzell." (The name of the nurse.) Arriving at my home, bidding
her good-night, she went on to Mrs. K., whom she found fast asleep, this
being about ten o'clock p.m. The nurse found everything quiet and went to
bed, but not to sleep. In a short time Mrs. K. called to her, telling her to
get up, her hour of trial was at hand. (I will here say that Mrs. K. was a
great, strong Irishwoman, who had given birth to one or two children, and
had no thought of fear as to the result.) She was taken violently sick,
and in about two hours was delivered of a beautiful, big baby boy. But
almost with the birth of the baby, the spirit of the mother was born into
life everlasting. It came so suddenly, so unexpectedly even to the doctor,
that there was no time to summon priest or bishop.
I was sent for, and went to perform the last duties for the dead, and
when I went into the room, there was Mrs. K. on a bed cold in death, and
lying in the exact position in which I had seen her clairvoyantly, some three
hours before, with a cloth pinned around the face or jaw, with one end
hanging loosely down.
(Signed) Mrs. M. A. Logue.
Mrs. E. Hartzell.
In another letter Mrs. Logue adds :—
Such things have been so frequent and are all the time, that I myself
seldom speak of them unless I am brought right in contact with the parties.
CORRESPONDENCE.
" G " CASES.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir,—I would like to know the reason why the large and, in my opinion,
most interesting class of cases coming under the " G " division seem
absolutely tabooed both in your Journal and Proceedings. No doubt Mrs.
Piper and Dr. Phinuit are both useful and interesting in their own sphere as
throwing light on a very important and obscure branch of our Society's
researches, but to the general public, to the people whose interest and
sympathy we are striving to enlist, they are somewhat tedious if not
absolutely unreadable, whereas after-death appearances and the phenomena
accompanying them are not alone most interesting and instructive to all, but
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1891.
at the same time encouraging to persons having witnessed similar phenomena
to bring them forward for investigation.
If the Society had a dearth of material I would not grumble, but such, I
believe, is not the case, as Professor Alexander's most interesting paper read
at one of our quarterly meetings will testify.
Leaving, however, out of consideration the interest or otherwise of such
narratives, we must consider the amount of valuable evidence lost to the
Society by neglecting to publish what we have got.
When percipients see that their narratives are slighted, and refused that
place in the records of the Society which their supreme importance demands,
it is no wonder that the accounts of such phenomena contributed become
gradually less and less, and will, I believe, ultimately entirely cease, as readers
will learn that these phenomena which most interest them are of no interest
to the Society.—I am, sir, very faithfully yours,
W. Johnson-Roberts (A.S.P.R.).
146, Pembroke Road, Dublin.
April 17th, 1891.
[Our correspondent is quite mistaken in supposing that "G" cases are
tabooed in the Proceedings or Journal. The last volume of the Proceedings
(Vol. VI.) contained two papers on Phantasms of the Dead (" G " cases), and
Vol. V. contained one paper on the same subject. Further, fourteen cases
of the "G" class were printed in the last volume of the Journal. Another
group of cases is now being reserved for a further paper which Mr. Myers
has in preparation, as we do not usually print in the Journal cases which
are likely to appear soon in the Proceedings.
Our correspondent's reference to Professor Alexander's paper, however,
suggests that he is not thinking only of "G" cases, but also of accounts of
alleged movements of objects without contact. If so, he will be glad to learn
that a series of narratives of this kind, including Professor Alexander's,
which have been before the Committee formed to consider the phenomena
commonly called Spiritualistic, have been put together by Mr. Myers and are
now ready for publication in the next number of the Proceedings. The
greater part of this paper has been read at different times to meetings of
the Society.
There is one part of our correspondent's letter with which we feel bound
to express disagreement. We do not think that the articles in our Proceed
ings should be composed to suit the tastes of the general public. We are
glad that popular articles should be written in magazines familiarising the
general reader with the subjects of our inquiries ; but as a Society with
scientific aims we have to address ourselves primarily, not to the general
reader, but to those who genuinely wish to ascertain the truth by indepen
dent study and are willing to go through the labour required to attain this
result.—Ed.]
CLAIRVOYANCE FORTY YEARS AGO.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
SIB» After my paper on the Evidence for Clairvoyance in the Part
of the Proceedings just issued was ready for printing off, and when no
May, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 79
addition could be made without delaying publication, some further facta
oame to my knowledge about the case of clairvoyance at Peterhead,
(Proceedings, XVIII., pp. 49-54) ; which, though they do not add to the
evidence for clairvoyance, are of some interest, and which I should, therefore,
be glad to be allowed now to lay before Members of the Society.
It appears that Mr. Reid's account of the hypnotic seance of April 23rd,
1850, published in the Aberdeen Herald of May 18th, 1850, ends with the
following sentence, not published in my paper :—a
" He [Park] also visited the vessel Traveller of this port and was told that
she had got her bows injured among the ice."
Mr. Boyd writes as to this :—
" I have no recollection of having heard, and I cannot find on inquiry,
that the statement by the clairvoyant that the Traveller had sustained damage
from the ice had been proved to be correct ; and probably it had not been so,
and the vessel had not been injured. But, I find that in 1848, two years
previously, that vessel (the Traveller) sustained serious injury to her bows
from the ice while in Greenland, which must have been widely known in
Peterhead in 1848, and it no doubt was so to Reid and Park in 1850.
Certainly the Traveller sustained no important injury in 1850."
It seems probable, therefore, that Park's statement about the Traveller
was founded on a reminiscence, and this adds force to the suggestion
that his statement about the injury to Oardno's hand may have had a
similar origin. It remains remarkable that this latter statement should
have proved true, as well as the two statements about the large amount of
oil obtained and the communication between the captains of the Eclipse and
Hamilton Eoss,
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick,
April, 1891.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Continued from the April Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
will be gratefully received.
B L 101. Ad Pn Visual. Borderland. 2nd hand, equal to 1st. Mr.
A. P. Graves writes that his wife, now dead, saw a light and recognised it as
meaning that her friend, Miss Jenny Johnston, known to be dangerously ill,
was dead. The time was noted by Mr. Graves, and Miss Johnston was
found to have died at that hour. Date, 1884. Recorded 1890.
B L 102. A<1 Po Borderland. 2nd hand.—Mr. T. A. Young tells us
that his uncle, when a little boy, saw his father beside his bed, dripping with
water. The father was drowned "about that time." Date, about°1860
Narrated May, 1890.
B L 103. A^Pn Borderland. 2nd hand.—The same narrator tells us
that when a friend of his died a sister-in-law of the friend, living 300 miles
away, heard raps on her bedroom door three times running, and then saw
him pass the door. Date, about 1865. Recorded May, 1890.
B L 104. Dreams. Indian stories, sent by Sir Archibald Campbell.
2nd hand, as good as 1st.—1. An Indian, named Bear, away on a hunting
expedition with Sir A. C, dreams that his stores have been broken into!
This had happened on the day of the night when dream occurred. 2.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1891.
Another Indian dreams that Bear wants him, some days before the latter's
expected return. He asks Sir A. C. for a canoe, and fetches Bear, whom
he found dying of cold. Date, 1862. Recorded April, 1890.
B L 105. An P» Impression. Borderland. —Miss A. Harriss informs
us that she wrote unexpectedly to a friend. When they met next day the
friend stated that about the time she was writing he was unable to sleep for
thinking about her. Recorded within a week, November, 1885.
B L 106. Ad Ps Borderland. 3rd hand, as good as 2nd.—Miss
L. W. Eden informs us that in the winter of 1858 an officer on H.M.S.
Conqueror told her that Corporal Holmes was much upset by a vision or
dream of his mother, in which she seemed to bid him "good-bye." Some
days later, the same officer told Miss Eden that a letter had arrived announc
ing the death of Holmes's mother, which occurred at the same hour as his
impression. Recorded in 1889 or 1890.
B L 107. Ad Pd 2nd hand, as good as 1st.—Colonel C. P. Hicks
relates that when Mrs. Hicks was dying, in October, 1887, she suddenly said,
" Poor Eddie—he is looking very ill—he has broken his leg—he has had a
fall—poor Eddie," and she indicated that he wanted to be let into the
room. Colonel Hicks learnt, after his wife's death, that his son Eddie died
in Australia on the same day. He did not break his leg, but he was riding
in a rough country and succumbed to fever and thirst. Recorded in
December, 1889. We have confirmation from Miss Hicks, and have also
examined a letter from Australia announcing the son's death.
B L 108. Ad P» Visual. Borderland. 2nd hand, as good as 1st. —
The same informant tells us that when in India, "about 1866," he was
awakened one night by their nurse entering the bedroom. She explained
next morning that she had seen her husband at the foot of her bed, he
beckoned, and seemed to disappear at the Colonel's bedroom door. The
following day a letter came from the regimental doctor at Lucknow,
announcing the death of the husband ; he died of cholera, on the night of
the vision. Narrated in December, 1889.
B L 109. Ad P<» Dream.—Mrs. Stevens informed us in 1890 that
" about 27 years ago" she dreamt of an accident in quite calm weather to
the mainmast of the ship in which her son was travelling. Her son after
wards wrote that the mainmast did break on that day, and in calm weather.
B L 110. Ad Ps Dreams.—Dr. A. J. Manson states that when his
father, his stepmother, and his great-uncle died he dreamt of the deaths in
each case before the news arrived. No dates are given. Recorded 1888.
PHOTOGRAPHING INDIAN CONJURERS.
We have seen allusions in more than one newspaper to an alleged
case of photographing an Indian conjurer during his performance, with
the result that the marvels which the audience supposed themselves to
be witnessing produced no effect on the sensitive plate. The inference
drawn is that the audience were hypnotised and hallucinated. Such
an experiment carefully made would obviously have important bearings
on our investigations, and we should be very glad to know particulars.
But we have been unable to discover on whose authority the state
ment rests, or whether it has any claim to credence. If any of our
readers can throw light on the subject or put us in the way of
obtaining further information we shall be grateful.
No. LXXXI.—Vol. V. June, 1891.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
New Members and Aasociatea 81
Meeting of the Council 82
General Meeting 83
Photographing Indian Conjurers 84
Cases received by the Literary Committee 86
Two New Cases of Spontaneous Change of Personality 03
Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood 96
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Graham, William, 19, Ashley-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
Graham, Mrs., 19, Ashley-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
ASSOCIATES.
Bazley, Sir Thomas S., Bart., J.P., M.A., Hatherop Castle, Fairford,
Gloucestershire.
Bovill, Mrs. Alfred, 9, St. Andrew's-place, Regent's Park, N.W.
Humfrey, Miss L. R., 8, Hyde Park-mansions, London, W.
Nicolson, Sir Arthur, K.C.I.E., C.M.G., British Consulate General,
124, Andrassy-street, Buda-Pesth, Hungary.
Pennington, Mrs., The Bays, Gleneagle-road, Streatham, S.W.
Tanner, Ernest, 3, Windsor-terrace, Penarth.
Webber-Smith, Colonel James, 27, Shaftesbury-avenue, London, W.
Whitehead, John, Esplanade, Guernsey.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Allen, Rev. T. E.,63, Glenham-street, Providence, Rhode Island, U.S.A.
Carleton, Will M., 420, Greene-avenue, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
Croswell, James G., 6e, 45th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Eddy, Miss Mary E., 265, Benefit-st., Providence, Rhode Island, U.S.A.
Esterly, Mrs. G. M., Whitewater, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
Fullerton, C. W., 94, Dearborn-street, Chicago, U.S.A.
Parker, G. H., Bank of Montreal, Brockville, Ontario, Canada.
Rumsey, Mrs. B. C, Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
Ryan, Carroll, 289, St. Martin-street, Montreal, Canada.
Shed, Z., 832, 17th-street, Denver, Colorado, U.S.A.
Sheets, John G, Cincinnati Sanatorium, College Hill, Ohio, U.S.A.
Vaughan, Miss Virginia, 20e, 43rd-street, New York, U.S.A.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, ism.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on May 29th, the President in
the chair. There were also present: Colonel Hartley, Dr. A. T. Myers,
Messrs. T. Barkworth, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore, S. C. Scott, and
H. A. Smith.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Two new Members and eight new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of twelve new
Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
The name of Mrs. Mulholland, recently elected, was, at her request,
transferred from the list of Associates to that of Members.
Two books presented to the Library were on the table, for which
thanks were accorded to the donor.
It was decided that the date of the General Meeting in July should
be altered from Friday, the 10th, to Friday, the 17th.
Various matters of business having been attended to, it was
agreed that the next Meeting of the Council should be at the West
minster Town Hall, at 3 p.m., on Friday, the 17th of July, previous to
the General Meeting on that day.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 4Gth General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, May 29th, at 8.30 p.m., the President
in the chair.
The President, after a few remarks on a paper by Mr. Alfred
Russel Wallace in the Arena, in which Mr. Wallace brought forward
spirit photographs as a proof of the objectivity of apparitions, and
challenged the Society to deal with the evidence for it, called on Mr
Podmore to read a paper by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick on " Spirit Photo
graphs." It was shown in this paper, among other things, that the
principal professional spirit photographers had been guilty of fraud in
the matter, and that in the case of Mr. Beattie—the disinterested
investigator whose private experiments were regarded by believers in
spirit photographs as the most important that had been made—it
seemed possible that he had been imposed upon by his assistant.
There remained a single photograph obtained by Professor Wagner,
of St. Petersburg, where trickery seemed very improbable, but where
Mrs. Sidgwick thought the mark resembling a deformed hand, which
appeared on the plate above the figure of the medium, might be due
to an unnoticed reflection off the wall or furniture.
Mb- W. Leaf said that it was remarkable that there were so few
June, 18UJ.J Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 83
accounts published of experiments in spirit photography in these days
when the taking of photographs had been made so easy for amateurs.
He had examined the reproductions of Mr. Beattie's photographs given
by M. Aksakof in his Animismus und Spiritismus. Anyone wishing
to trick and having access to a modern gelatine plate could make
similar marks by means of a finger wet with a little ammonia, and in
other ways. He said that he had himself visited the studio of a
supposed spirit photographer, some accounts of whose photographs
have been published. She had declined to see him herself, having been
told by her " guides " to keep in retirement, but had allowed him to
examine her studio, and he had there seen two negatives which in
combination made a " spirit photograph," which he also saw. Whether
this very palpable evidence of the manufacture of " spirit photographs "
had been left for his inspection by design, he could not, of course, say.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then discussed certain " Problems of Per
sonality." Reminding his hearers of the success of Professor James'
and Mr. Hodgson's experiment of hypnotising Ansel Bourne, in order
to revive the memory of his secondary or " A. J. Brown " condition,
he pointed out that this was an application of hypnotism in what he
considered its most significant aspect,—namely, as an empirical method
of reaching the subliminal self—those strata of the personality which
lie below the threshold of ordinary waking consciousness.
The speaker urged that very many phenomena, apparently isolated
and disparate, might be rationally colligated by regarding them as
" messages " sent up from the subliminal to the superficial or empiri
cal self. These messages might be nonsensical, as in dream or delirium,
or they might contain new truths,—as in telepathic and clairvoyant
cases,—but there was a general resemblance between the modes of
manifestation of the false messages and the true. All such messages,
falsidical as well as veridical, might be divided into four classes, with
reference to their modes of manifestation,—the way in which they
rose into the cognisance of the superficial self. There was first a class
of impressions, neither definitely sensory nor definitely motor, but
capable of being developed into either of those classes. Secondly, there
was a class of sensory messages—visual and auditory phantasms, and
the like. To these, as distinguished from the motor messages, the title
of passive automatism might be given. Then came the motor messages
—automatic writing and the like—which constituted active automatism.
And, lastly, there were cases like Ansel Bourne's, where the "messages"
—alike sensory and motor—had usurped the place of the superficial
consciousness.
After some further discussion of these " messages " with reference
to their content, the speaker read a curious case, sent by Mr. Hensleigh
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June. ism.
Wedgwood, where a long message had been automatically written as
to facts alleged to have occurred in 1605—which facts were afterwards
verified as having actually occurred,—although there was good reason
to believe that the automatist had never become aware of them by
ordinary methods.
Some questions were asked about what Mr. Myers had said, after
which
Mr. Barkworth spoke of the great need of more experiments. In
particular he suggested that it would be very interesting to ascertain
whether any memory of what had occurred during unconsciousness
caused by an accident or by anesthetics could be recovered by
hypnotism. This was an experiment which medical men might have
opportunities of trying.
Mr. W. Boyd, who sent to the Society an interesting case of
clairvoyance, published in the last number of the Proceedings, made a
few remarks on the importance of any good evidence about psychical
matters being brought forward and published, if only because the
publication of one case led to the discovery of others.
PHOTOGRAPHING INDIAN CONJURERS.
We have received several communications in answer to the note on
this subject, which we printed in the last number of the Journal,
most of which point to an article published in the Chicago Daily
Tribune for August, 1890, as the original authority for the statements to
which we referred. In default of further evidence it must, we think,
be concluded that the writers who have given currency to these state
ments had no better evidence for them than a fictitious narrative,
subsequently, as will be seen, avowed to be such.
The article in question, which occupies nearly two columns of the
paper, sets forth how Mr. Frederick S. Ellmore, " son of W. S.
Ellmore, a well-known coffee broker of this city ... a pleasant-
faced, light-haired young man of 26 ... an '86 Yale man," made
a two years' trip round the world, and being a rather enthusiastic
amateur photographer, carried his beloved kodak with him. In Paris
he joined a college class-mate, a young New Yorker, George Lessing, an
artist, and together they went on through Europe and Asia.
The article continues with an account of an interview with " a
Tribune man," in which Mr. Ellmore is made to describe how he and
Lessing in India were constantly on the alert for some first-class
juggler, and at length at Gaya came across a fakir. Ellmore had been
impressed by the theory that the explanation of all these alleged super
June, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 85
natural performances would be found in hypnotism, and they proposed
the following plan to test his theory. While the fakir was going
through his performances, Lessing was to make a rapid pencil sketch
of what he saw, Ellmore at the same moment taking a snapshot with
his kodak.
The article goes on to describe the mango trick, the production of
a baby under a shawl, and a boy climbing a cord thrown up into the
sky.
"I had no facilities," continues Mr. Ellmore, "for developing the kodak
films, and it was these Lessing took with him, as well as a thousand or more
other negatives, to be developed. The fakir pictures, with a few others, I
received this afternoon. After the fakir's departure, Lessing filled in his
sketches and these he left with me. You'll see by comparing the ones
Lessing made with the photographs that in no instance did the camera
record the marvellous features of the performance. For instance, Lessing's
sketch shows the tree grown from the bush, while the camera shows there
was no bush there. Lessing saw a baby and so did I, and he has got it in
his sketch, but the camera demonstrates that there was no baby. Lessing's
sketch of the boy climbing the twine is evidence that he saw it, but the
camera says there was no boy and no twine. From which I'm compelled to
believe that my theory is absolutely correct—that Mr. Fakir had simply
hypnotised the entire crowd, but couldn't hypnotise the camera."
The article was accompanied by six woodcuts illustrating the alleged
differences between the photographs taken by the kodak and the
sketches made by the artist.
Mr. Hodgson writes :—.
I saw the article shortly after it appeared, and was satisfied that it
was a fabrication. I saw the mango trick frequently when in India, and
learned the details of its modus operandi. It is an ordinary, though very
dexterous, sleight-of-hand performance. I did not see the other tricks
described (or mis-described) in the article. The story of the boy climbing
the rope and disappearing is, in one form or another, very old, and I made
many inquiries in India concerning it, but failed to meet any person who
had witnessed anything that might have served as a foundation for the story.
Colonel Olcott stated that ho had met a person who had seen it, and added
that on one occasion a somewhat distant spectator had climbed a tree whence
he could see the juggler's movements but could not "catch" the juggler's
words. The near spectators were said to have averred that the juggler with
a knife pursued the boy up the " rope " and disappeared. That the bleeding
limbs, trunk, &c., of the boy fell from "nothing." That the juggler then
appeared again, descending the rope, and that the fragments of the boy joined
themselves together and became whole. The spectater in the tree saw only
that the juggler was cutting up a vegetable belonging to the pumpkin order.
Colonel Olcott vouchsafed the explanation that a " mesmeric glamour " was
thrown by the juggler over those spectators who could hear his words. I was
unable to ascertain whether the story originated in the hallucinations of some
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1891.
hypnotised witness, or whether it is merely a gross misdescription of some
clever sleight-of-hand performance.
Be this as it may, the coup de grace was given to the above article from
the CJiieago Daily Tribune by the following statement, which appeared in
the same paper in its issue of December 6th, 1890 :—
"The article on hypnotism referred to . . . was written for the
purpose of presenting a theory in an entertaining form. The writer believed
that hypnotism might be the secret of the art of the Indian jugglers, and
embodied the idea in a sketch. The principal character was Mr. F. S.
Ellmore (sell-more), and the writer considered that the name would suggest
to a careful reader that it was a ' sell. ' It seems, however, that a
number of people who read the article in the Tribune and in the exchanges
that copied it accepted it as a solemn fact, and that it was eagerly seized
upon by students of hypnotism as a demonstration of the perfection to
which the science has been developed. While the sketch was a fancy one, it
is suggested to those who recognised it as such that the idea contained in it
might profitably be tried to prove whether the creations of the juggler be
phantoms or realities."
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 880. Ad Pn Visual. Successive and Reciprocal.
The following case is from a lady known to me, and in whose care
and accuracy I have confidence. The initials, &c, have been altered,
as Mrs. O. thinks that some members of the agent's family might
object to the publication of the true names. For the same reason the
actual percipient, Mrs. O.'s sister, has thus far been unwilling to write
her own account of the incident. It will be seen, however, that Mrs.
O.'s evidence is as good as first hand, since she was informed of the
apparition before the death was known.—F. W. H. M.
On New Year's Day, 1873, my family wont to a dance at Mr. K.'s, at K.
House. My father was Mr. K.'s chaplain, and our house was at a distance
of about 7 minutes' walk in the park. We returned home at night, my
father remaining at K. House, whore he had rooms. Mr. K. was an old man,
and known to be in failing health, but there was no present anxiety about
him. My sister C. slept in the same room as I did, and my sister L. in an
adjoining room alone. C. and I had gone to sleep, when we were suddenly
awakened by L.'s bursting into our room, at about two o'clock, and calling
out, " Oh, Mr. K.has been in my room ! " She said that he had come in
while she was reading a novel in bed. She heard his footsteps up the stairs,
and saw him come in and go to the window, where he stood looking out for
a few moments, and then went away. Wo said that this must be all non
sense ; but she insisted that she had not been to sleep.
We went to sleep, but were again awakened in a couple of hours by a
groom, who came from the great house, taking telograms to the village, to
June, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 87
say that Mr. K. was dead. Ho stopped at our house by the way to give us the
news. My father told us next day that Mr. K. had died of failure of the heart's
action. My father was sent for as the old man lay dying, and he said : " I
have been to the Cottage, and your darlings are well." He was very fond of
all of us, and particularly attached to the Cottage, which he had designed
and built himself, largely for the sake of the view from the side of the house
where my sister L. slept. He used often to come to our house for rest and
quiet. He died at 2 a.m., and in a thunderstorm—as tradition says that that
family always do.
Very shortly afterwards, but before we had talked about these facts, the
policeman who watched in the park told us that that night he had met in
the park one D., a carpenter employed at the great house, who had said,
"I have had such a turn, I expect I shall get the sack, I have just met Mr.
K. in the park." The fact was that D. had been staying on at the house
after the servants' ball to court the kitchenmaid, to whom he was engaged,
and he was afraid that Mr. K. would be angry at this. The policeman
replied to D. : "Yes, I have just seen Mr. K. go up the steps," i.e., the
steps which led to our cottage. We afterwards saw D., and he told
us the same story. Both D. and the policeman said that Mr. K. was
wearing a tall hat and an inverness cape, which was his usual outdoor dress.
D. is dead. The policeman's name was W. ; but we have lost sight of him.
My sister L. is now in India. She perfectly remembers the incident, but
has been unwilling to write an account lest Mr. K. 's family should dislike it.
My sister C. has a similar reluctance. She also remembers the incident
perfectly well. My father is dead ; my mother is old, and not in a condition
to write, but remembers tho incident perfectly well.
May 2nd, 1891.
Wc give next a very definite case of prophecy fulfilled.
P. 137.
The following appeared in the Beligio-l'hilosophical Journal for
November 1st, 1890 :—
STATEMENT OF DR. SUDDICK.
For some time past we have been holding spiritual seances, or circles,
regularly every Tuesday and Friday evening at our home in Cuba, Mo., and
have gotten and are getting many messages, truthful and otherwise, although
the untruthful ones are few comparatively and are generally so from known
causes, such as misunderstanding of question asked, inharmony in circle,
&c., &c. Most remarkable was a "Prophecy and its Fulfilment," a
hurried statement of which appeared in the Better Way of October 18th.
Two friends had called in, namely, Charles II. Cottnam, bookkeeper for the
firm of Newman and Jones, general merchants, and James E. Hollow, jun.,
of the firm of Hollow and Son, dealers in stoves, hardware, and furniture,
both doing business at this place. They, my wife, and I sat around a small
walnut centre table, placing our hands on its top surface in tho usual manner,
and in about ten or fifteen minutes the table began to move, indicating the
presence of our spirit friends, or some intelligence with the power to move
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1891.
it, and answer questions intelligently, as we found by asking. The lamp was
sitting on a piano in the corner of the room, turned down so as to make a
subdued or mellow light, but not so low but that we could see what time it
was by our watches as we sat at the table, or jot down the communications
as they were spelled out.
Mr. Cottnam had a friend, Mr. Chris. Varis, a prominent hotel keeper
of St. James, Phelps County, Mo., and a former resident of this place. His
disease was a chronic affection of the throat. Mr. C. had called on him a
few days previous and found him very weak and sinking fast. He could
take no solid food, and all the nourishment he got was by painful swallow
ing a little eggnog or milk. His attendant physician, Dr. Headlee, of St.
James, told Mr. Cottnam that he thought Mr. Varis could live but a few
days at most, and from his appearance Mr. Cottnam was of the same opinion.
After many other questions were asked and answered, the table answering
by tipping two of its feet two or three inches off the floor, and then striking
it again, once for no, twice for don't know, and three times for yes, Mr. C.
asked, "Do you know my friend Chris. Varis, of St. James, Mo.?" "Yes."
"Is he any better than when I was with him last?" "No." "Is he worse?"
"Yes." " Will I have time to get to him before he passes out if I take
the next train?" "Yes." " Will he live over to-morrow ? " "Yes." "Do
you know when he will pass out ? " "Yes." Then the table rocked back
and forth slowly, the feet striking the floor forty times, making forty distinct
raps, much to the surprise of all present, as we were expecting him to pass
out much sooner. We counted, and found that the time indicated would be
October 8th ; so to make sure we were right we asked, ' ' Will he pass out
on October 8th ? " "Yes." " In the forenoon ? " "Yes." " Will a
telegram be sent to me on the morning of the 8th to that effect ? " " Yes.'
A night or two after the above described seance Mr. Cottnam sat at
another house with different sitters, and received the following confirmation
of the above. He says : "We had been sitting only a few minutes when
the table began to move. I asked, ' Is the spirit demonstrating a friend of
mine?' 'Yes.' (Indicated by three distinct tips of the table.) 'Will
you spell your name ? ' ' Yes. ' The alphabet was called in the usual way,
and the letters signalled by tips spelled Ben Walker. ' Are you my friend,
Ben Walker, of St. Louis?' 'Yes.' 'I was not aware of your demise;
when did you pass out ? ' Three distinct tips. ' Doos that mean that it
has been three days since you passed out?' 'Yes.' 'Is your body buried ? '
'No.' ' Will it be buried to-morrow ? ' 'Yes.' ' Do you know my friend
Chris. Varis ? ' ' Yes. ' ' Will he pass out on October 8th ? ' ' Yes. ' 'Are
you sure of this ? ' ' Yes. ' "
Mr. Cottnam was not aware of the death of Mr. Walker, and rather
doubted the truth of the message about him. The Globe Democrat of the
next day, however, confirmed the truth of his death and stated that the
interment was deferred until his son arrived from a distant city.
The prediction about Mr. Varis became an open secret, and was talked
of freely through the town from the morning of August 30th until October
8th, when a telegram camo over the wires informing Mr. C. that Mr. Varis
died that morning at six o'clock.
June, i891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. M
I append a letter from Dr. Headlee, the physician who attended Mr.
Varis, which corroborates the account just given. I also send the signatures
of twelve of our best citizens in further confirmation, and the signatures of
the sitters. Many more names could be obtained, but I judge the following
to be sufficient.
Cuba, Mo. S. T. Suddick, M.D.
Dear Doctor,—About a week previous to the death of Mr. Chris. Varis
I was in Cuba, and a friend was inquiring about him . I told him that on the
evening before I did not think ho would survive the night, but on that morn
ing he had rallied a little, that the chances all wore that ho would not last
twenty-four hours. Ho then told me that he (Mr. V.) would live until the
eighth day of October, and that he would die on that day ; this he did, dying
at 6 a.m.
Mr. Varis was sick about seven or eight months and for the last throo
was expected to die at any time. —Respectfully yours,
St. James, Mo., October 18th, 1890. S. II. Headlee.
Cuba, Mo., October 15th, 1890.
To all whom IT may CONCERN :—This is to certify that we, the under
signed citizens of Cuba, Mo., did, prior to the death of Mr. Chris. Varis, of
St. James, Mo., which occurred on the morning of the 8th of October, 1890,
hear a prophecy to the effect that he would die on the morning of that day.
We heard that his death was foretold at a seanco, at the house of Dr. S.
T. Suddick, in the town of Cuba, Mo., on the night of August the 29th, or
forty days prior to that event.
S. T. Suddick, M.D.
I received message for Cottnam October 8th, from St. James.
Chas. C. Kent,
Telegraph Operator at Cuba.
JAS. E. Hollow, jun., one of the circle of August 29th.
Lonostreet Simpson, Clerk in Store.
I. P. Brickey, Proprietor Cuba Hotel.
E. A. Evans, Real Estate Agent.
F. R. Hardesty, Druggist.
W. T. Hunter, Blacksmith.
C. H. Cottnam, one of the circle of August 29th.
Dr. V. L. SHELr, Dentist.
Dr. J. H. Martyn, Physician and Surgeon.
Geo. Askins, Hotel Clerk.
Mrs. Louise Farley Suddick, one of the circle of August 29th.
J. A. Rost, Shoemaker.
J. A. Caims, Clerk in Store.
B. F. Johnson, Notary Public.
The letter from which the following is an extract, and of which
the original was sent to Mr. Hodgson by Dr. Suddick, fixes the date of
the seanco.
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1891.
Cuba, Mo., August 29th, 1890.
D. B. Ferryman,
Bonne Terre, Mo.
Dear Friend,—
*****
30th. We had a nice little circle last night, in our parlour, and good
phenomena, so far as table-tipping goes. Myself, wife, and two neighbours
composed the circle. There were about a hundred questions asked, and all
were answered correctly, so far as we know.
One gentleman was requested to go to a sick friend, and was told the
number of days he would live, &c. , &c.
*****
S. T. SUDDICK.
(This extract appeared in the Religio-Philosophical Journal.)
Dr. Suddick says that the letter was returned to him at his own
request, and writes :—
You will find that the first seven or eight lines were written August 29th
and the remainder of the letter on the 30th, or part before and part after
the sitting.
Mrs. Suddick sends the following account of the sitting.
Cuba, Mo., November 9th, 1890.
Replying to your favour of the 5th inst. , requesting my confirmation of
the " prophecy " of which my husband wrote, I can say that I was one of
the sitters ; the seance having taken place at our house. There were two
other sitters besides my husband (Dr. Suddick) and self, namely, J. E.
Hollow, jun., and C. H. Cottnam. The message was given in answer to
questions put by Mr. Cottnam concerning his friend Mr. Varis. He
did not call the name of the latter at the time of the sitting, but only
spoke of him as " my friend," and I, for one, did not know at the time to
whom he referred. (I think perhaps the other sitters did.) I heard
casually the next day through a neighbour lady that Mr. Varis, of St.
James, was expected to die at any time, and associating the two incidents, I
concluded that he was the sick friend of whose demise Mr. C. had been
questioning the "spirits," and on inquiring found that I had surmised
correctly.
At the sitting, Mr. Cottnam asked a number of questions about his sick
friend, among which were, " Will he be alive when I arrive there 1 " "Will
he die to-morrow 1 " "Will he die the day after ? " &c. After receiving
negative answers to the last two—and perhaps the question whether ho
would live a week was asked,—I do not distinctly remember—he requested
the controlling power to rap once for every day that his friend would yet
live, and the table rapped forty times : each of the sitters counted the raps
as they were given distinctly by the table rising one side off the floor and
striking down again. On counting the forty days from that date we found
that the time of his death as prophesied would fall on the 8th of October.
(The date of the prophecy was August 29th. ) Mr. C. asked if the 8th of
October was the day on which he would die, and the table rapped three
June, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 91
times, the conventional signal for "Yes." He then asked if the demise would
take place in daytime or at night ; in the forenoon or afternoon, &c., and
received answers that it would bo in the daytime, and in the forenoon.
At several other seances held at the home of Mr. Brickey and other
places, these questions were again asked, and the answers repeated that Mr.
Varis would die on the morning of October 8th, as at the first sitting. Of
these dates I am perfectly confident.
It may, and it may not, be superfluous to add, that, unlike my husband,
I am not a confirmed believer in the spiritual origin of those phenomena
which we have from time to time witnessed, such as movements of the
table by some unknown power ; intelligent answers to questions ; messages
given through the alphabet, &c., but have been undecided whether to
attribute them to telepathy, thought-transference, or some other unknown
mental or magnetic quality residing in the sitters themselves, or whether,
as so many believe, it is really through the direct agency of the disembodied.
Wishing your Society much success in its rational and most scientific way
of dealing with these occult problems, —I am, very truly,
Louise F. Suddick.
Mr. Hodgson has also received letters from Mr. I. P. Brickey, Mr.
E. A. Evans, and Mr. J. A. Bost confirming the authenticity of their
testimony quoted above. Mr. Brickey states that it was at his house
that the seance at which the prophecy was confirmed was held.
Mr. Evans writes :—.
Cuba, Mo., November UK, 1890.
Touching the matter cited in yours of the 4th inst. , I desire to say that
my signature subscribed to the published statement of Dr. Suddick, relative
to the prophesied death of Chris. Varis, of St. James, Mo., is authentic.
Further, in this connection I desire to say that I never attended a seance, as
it is called, I believe, in my life, have no experience in that line, and have
no personal knowledge upon which to base belief nor unbelief of Spiritualism.
But I was told by parties that met at Dr. Suddick's residence, some weeks
before the demise of Chris. Varis, that by raps with, or on a table, I do not
know which, they were told that Varis would die in 40 days, or October 8th,
and he did die on the date as given.
Eugene A. Evans.
There remained an important question to determine : whether Mr.
Varis had known of the prophecy, making it possible that it had
brought about its own fulfilment. The following letter and statement
give the result of Dr. Suddick's inquiries on this point :—
Cuba, Mo., December 29/-d, 1890.
I received your recent letter several days ago, but thought it would
perhaps be more satisfactory to you and your Society for me to go and see
Mrs. Varis, widow of Mr. Chris. Varis, myself. So yesterday (Sunday) I
boarded the noon train, and on arriving found Mrs. Varis and her two
daughters, young ladies, very intelligent and clever people. On introduc
ing the subject, just a shade of vexation passed over Mrs. V.'s face, and
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1S91.
she made haste to say, "Wo are not Spiritualists, and knew nothing of
the prophecy until we saw it in the Crawford Mirror, at least two weeks
after Mr. Varis' death. I was very much vexed, as we believe nothing in
such foolishness.'' . . .
I explained that the parties who had signed their names to the paper
had not intended it to appear in the local Press. Mrs. V. said she had felt
very badly about having her husband's name bandied about in that way in a
newspaper, but when Mr. Cottnam explained the matter, and Dr. Headlee
said he knew of the prophecy, and that the morning of the 8th of October
had been specified as the time in which he should die, a week or more
before his death occurred, she felt that there must be some truth in it, as she
could not doubt Dr. Headlee.
"Mrs. Varis, did your husband know anything about the prophecy before
his death ? "
"No, indeed," she said, "none of us knew anything about it until two
weeks after his death."
" Might not Dr. Headlee have said something to him about it during one
of his visits without your knowing it 1 "
"Oh, dear no," she said, "I was always present at these visits, and know
no such talk occurred at any of them. No, I am positive Dr. Headlee never
mentioned it, and that Mr. V. never knew it."
I then wrote up the little memorandum enclosed, and she signed it, or
rather her daughter did, at her request, in my presence. . . .
I then went out and found Dr. Headlee, and he said in answer to my
questions :—
"No, I know positively that Mr. V. knew nothing of the prophecy ; no
one in St. James knew anything of it but myself, and I did not want him to
find it out." S. T. Suddick.
To ALL whom IT MAY concern :—This is to certify that I am positive
that my husband knew nothing whatever of the prophecy of his death, made
at a Spiritual circle held at the home of Dr. S. T. Suddick, in Cuba, Mo., on
August 29th last. We did not hear of it for about two weeks after his death.
We are not Spiritualists.
(Signed) Mits. A. Varis.
We may add that Spiritualistic seances (without professional
mediums) are very frequently held in Cuba, Mo., which is, we under
stand, a town of some 550 inhabitants; and that other prophecies have
been made which have come true, as the following letter written by Dr.
Suddick to Colonel Bundy, editor of the Religio-Philosophical Journal
(and received from Colonel Bundy by Mr. Hodgson on October 28th,
1890), will show. They are, however, decidedly less striking than the
instance we have given, and it would be difficult to estimate their
evidential value without a precise statement of the number of pro
phecies that have not come true.
We had a sitting about a month ago, spirits stating that a "woman would
June, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 93
die in Cuba on October 20th," but they would not spell the name. Miss
Annie Long died here that day.
Parson Stillwell, a very old gentleman, was quite feeble, and a few nights
ago at a circle someone asked how long he would live. The spirits spelled
out, "He will die to-night." In the morning he was dead.
The spirits kept parties in Cuba posted in the wheat market, noting all
the changes from to three or four days ahead, all this fall. Thousands have
been made here.
TWO NEW CASES OF SPONTANEOUS CHANGE
OF PERSONALITY.
Cases of permanent spontaneous change of personality are still
sufficiently rare to deserve record in this Journal. Two cases observed
by Professor Charcot are reported (with the authorisation of his name)
in the Journal de Medecine et de Chirurgie, 1891, Tome LXIL, and
copied thenoe into the Revue de VHypnotisms, May, 1891, from which
place I translate and abridge them. No names are given in the reports.
Dr. Charcot's First Case.
Here is a girl entirely natural in aspect ; sewing, talking, answermg
questions, at any rate if the interrogation is not pushed far ; and yet there
exist in her two separate personalities ; she is in a secondary state. Let us
call this actual state B, as opposed to the primary state A, which can be
artificially reproduced. In state B she walks well, without limping ; she
suffers from complete superficial analgesia (no part of her skin can feel pain) ;
she retains the muscular sense, but taste and smell are modified, and the
visual field is diminished.
By carefully questioning her, one discovers that her answers are some
what defective on certain points : she has forgotten her age and her place of
education. In this state she is somewhat heavy, and although she sews with
ease she has difficulty in writing, and cannot perform the simplest arithme
tical operation. She is attached to another young patient, and lately went
with her to the theatre and remembers the play fairly well.
In this state B she presents all the characters of what M. Charcot terms
" le grand hypnotisme." A sudden noise renders her cataleptic, and she
is roused from catalepsy by blowing on her eyes. By blowing on her skin
the "contracture somnambulique " is produced; a contraction of the sub
jacent muscles which no one can produce by an effort of will. Her mental
characteristics also resemble those of artificial somnambulism. She is
extremely suggestible ; is intoxicated by being told that she is drinking
champagne from an empty glass, &c. If she is told to see a red cross
(imaginary) on a white card, and another card is then substituted, she sees a
green cross on this second card ; and so with other complementary colours,
with a precision which one cannot suppose due to a knowledge of the law of
contrast. She also constructs a suggested portrait from slight points de
repere, &c.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1891.
Let us now see her in state A. This state sometimes returns spon
taneously, and is at any time easily induced by energetically telling her
to awake. There is a very slight hysterical attack, which might easily pass
unobserved, and tho condition is then completely changed. In state A the
patient suffers from a hysterical disturbance of the movements of walking,
and stands with difficulty. The analgesia is now only partial ; the field of
vision is modified ; catalepsy and somnambulic contracture can no longer bo
induced.
On the psychical side, memory has returned, and the patient recalls the
events of her youth, and can work a sum in arithmetic. But she has com
pletely forgotten all that passed in state B. When her young friend is pre
sented to her she regards her as a stranger, and has no recollection of the
visit to the theatre, or of the piece played. Suggestion is no longer possible.
State A, however, never lasts long ; and after 15 or 20 minutes the patient
has an invincible tendency to fall back into state B, which appears to be
more agreeable to her, and from which she is never drawn without a protest.
Once returned to state B, she presents the same phenomena as above
described, and entirely forgets what has passed in state A. The previous
history of this patient can be briefly given. Her father was a drunkard,
and subject to hysterical or epileptic attacks ; her mother was excitable ;
she has had an uncle insane. She underwent a typhoid fever at fifteen ;
and shortly afterwards, after an emotional shock, began to suffer from
violent hysterical attacks. One day it was remarked that she sometimes
seemed different from her normal self ; soon afterwards, about a year ago,
she was received at the Salp6triere.
At present she generally wakes in the morning in state A, but soon
passes into state B, in which condition she remains all day ; in the evening
she re-enters state A before going to sleep. It is evident that she is not far
from being a perpetual somnambule, or rather vigilambide, —for she has by
no means the look of a person asleep.
Dr. Charcot's Second Case.
'M. Charcot's second case was at first very difficult to study, because no
way of transforming state B into state A had been discovered, and the spon
taneous change took place only at long intervals. A method of transforma
tion has now been discovered, and the case has much gained in interest.
This second patient also is a hysteric, who entered the Salpetriere 10
years ago, and has lived almost continually in state B since 1885. In that
state she presents an absolute general anaesthesia, and the loss of the mus
cular sense is so complete that she falls as soon as her eyes are closed. Her
hearing and smell are nearly normal ; but she is colour-blind and distin
guishes no colour but red, —a symptom fairly common with hysterical
women. She has also hysterical attacks from time to time, but much less
violent and less frequent than in her earlier state.
In her state B, which is now habitual, she only knows her name because
it has been taught to her afresh. She knows nothing of her past history,
her family, &c. She remembers the Exhibition which she visited in state
B but knows nothing before 1885. Another young patient has taught her
to read, write, and cipher in state B, and (with some difficulty) to knit.
June, 18o1.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 95
As with the patient in the first case, the phenomena of "le grand
hypnotisrae " are readily produced with this second patient in her state B.
But her colour-blindness gives a special interest to the experiment of the
complementary colours. As she can only recognise red, we can suggest to
her to see a red cross on a white card. When this card is changed for
another white card she immediately sees on the second card a green cross.
And yet if a really green object is shown to her she cannot tell its colour.
She thu3 can only see green as a complementary colour, and subsequent to
a suggestion.
It is possible to transfer her into condition A by a kind of objurgation ;
and the transition, as in the first case, is marked by a hysterical attack,
rather more severe than in the former case. In state A she is at once
transported five years back, and the last five years disappear altogether from
her existence. Her life seems to end in 1885, at the time when sho passed
into state B, and she recounts all manner of details about her early history,
and recollects a physician whom she has not met since 1885. She saw
him without recognition, a moment previously, in state B. She remembers
the staff of the Salpetriere as it was in 1885, but does not recognise the
persons who are actually around her every day. She recognises the patient
who serves as governess to state B, but imagines that that patient has only
been a month in the hospital, which was true at the date when her own state
A yielded to state B ; and at the same time she has forgotten all that that
governess taught her ; she can neither read, write, nor sew, but has relapsed
into the illiteracy of her normal life, in which she could not read or write.
She has forgotten the Exhibition and the Eiffel tower—everything, in short,
which has occurred since 1885.
Furthermore, she is now colour-blind with the right eye only ; the left
eye sees colours normally. Sensibility, which, in almost all its forms, had
completely disappeared in state B, returns on the right side, and she can
stand erect with her eyes shut. Catalepsy and suggestibility can be no
longer induced. Yet certain suggestions made in state B persist into state
A ; for instance, having been made by suggestion in state B to see a cap with
a red feather on the head of one of the students, she still sees the absurd
headdress in state A, and cannot look at the student without laughing.
State A never lasts long with this patient, and after a quarter of an hour
or so she repasses into state B with a slight hysterical attack lasting for a few
seconds. All the phenomena already described as characterising her state B
are at once reproduced. Like the previous patient she prefers state B to
state A, and resists the attempt to transfer her to state A. Her history
resembles that of the first patient ; after a series of violent attacks she passed
into state B in 1885, and since that date has seldom spontaneously relapsed
into state A.
These two cases seem to me noticeable for the very close analogy
which they show between a spontaneous secondary state and the
hypnotic state. These patients closely resemble Dr. Jules Janet's
patient, MarcelUne, with whom the secondary state was originally
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1891.
induced by hypnotism, but became quasi-permanent when she was left
unawakened in the hypnotic trance.
They thus illustrate what I believe to be an important fact,
namely, that the phenomena which the various methods classed under
the name of hypnotism induce are not novel or isolated symptoms, but
rather an empirical reproduction of symptoms, most of which have
often occurred spontaneously.
The balance of advantages and drawbacks between the state A
and the state B in these two subjects is not to us very obvious. Yet
in each instance—and this is usually the case in changes of personality
of this kind—the subject herself decidedly prefers state B. May we
not consider the gradual transference from state A to state B as a kind
of healing effort of nature, rather than as a degenerative change ?
F. W. H. M.
OBITUARY.
MR. HENSLEIGH WEDGWOOD.
The death of Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, which occurred on June
2nd, at the age of 88, deprives our Society of one of its most helpful
members, and some among us of a staunch and honoured friend.
Mr. Wedgwood's interest in this class of subjects dated, I think, from
the year 1873, when he was already seventy years old. During a long
and intellectually vigorous old age he made these inquiries his principal
interest. On the formation of the S.P.R. in 1882 he consented to be
one of its Vice-Presidents, and since that time he has frequently con
tributed observations or narratives of value. He was not always in
agreement with the critical method adopted in our Proceedings ; and
criticisms from his pen on what he regarded as undue rigour have from
time to time appeared in these columns. But no difference of opinion
ever checked his steady good-will ; and wherever the completeness of
evidence depended upon his own exertions he spared no pains to attain
it. A remarkable case of automatic messages read at our last meeting
—four days before his death—had been carefully prepared by him only
a few weeks ago.
Age and infirmity, indeed, seemed to have no effect upon his steady
devotion to the pursuit of truth. His correspondence retained all its
courteous promptitude and serene impersonality when he was suffering
under physical troubles which would have absorbed the whole attention
of most other men.
Of his good work done in other directions—philological and
antiquarian—tthis is not the place to speak. Cousin and brother-in-
law of Charles Darwin, a member of a family group noted for the
unusual proportion of men of eminence which it has given to the world,
his intellectual achievements paled beside those of his more famous
kinsfolk. But in moral nature he was not easily to be surpassed ;—in
the candid uprightness, the unobtrusive beneficence, the immutable
spirit of honour, which made one feel, if all men were like him, how
simple and noble a matter the life of man might be.—F. W. H. M,
No. LXXXII.—Vol. V. July, 1891.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
New Members and Associates 97
Meeting of the Council 97
General Meeting 98
The Case of " Edina" t 100
Cases received by the Literary Committee 105
Experiments in Thought-transference, by Mr. Kirk ill
A French translation of " Phantasms of the Living " . . 126
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases „ 127
Supplementary Library Catalogue 128
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, Hawthorne Lodge, Ashvale, Surrey.
DAbbadie, Antoine, 120, Rue de Bac, Paris.
Micklethwait, Richard K., Ardsley House, Barnsley.
ASSOCIATES.
Allen, Frederic, Sidmouth-road, Newcastle, Staffordshire.
Bell, Bainbridge R., The Rectory, Cheltenham.
Daniel, A. M., B.A., Temple Chambers, London, E.C.
Pretious, Mrs. W. T., Newnham House, Loughton, Essex.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 29, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Stewart, Mrs. Charlotte A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Wedd, N, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Jefferson, J., Buzzard's Bay, Mass., U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Baker, Dr. Smith, Winston-building, Utica, N.Y., U.S.A.
Brooks, Alexander O, c/o P.R.R., Jersey City, N.J., U.S.A.
Burge. Miss Maria L., 132, Montague-street, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Everett, Torrey, Council Bluffs, Iowa, U.S.A.
Rand, Mrs. J. L., 49, ELirkland-street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Smith, Horace J., 6, East Penn, Germantown, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Towner, Judge J. W., Santa Ana, California, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on July 17th, the President in
the chair. There were also present : Professor W. F. Barrett, Colonel ^
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, MM.
Hartley, Dr. A. T. Myers, Messrs. W. Crookes, F. W. H. Myers,
Sydney C. Scott, R. Pearsall Smith, and H. E. Wingfield.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Three new Members and seven new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of one new
Member and seven new Associates of the American Branch was also
recorded.
A Minute was made recording the death of Mr. Hensleigh Wedg
wood, respecting whom an obituary notice appeared in the last number
of the Journal. Information was also received of the decease of Mrs.
Barrett, a Member of the Society.
The name of Dr. H. D. B. Kingston was, at his request, transferred
from the list of Members to that of Associates.
The Assistant-Secretary reported that, in accordance with a list
furnished by Mr. B. Hodgson, a surplus copy of various parts of the
Proceedings had been despatched to 522 libraries of colleges and public
institutions in America, through the agency of the Smithsonian
Institution.
It was further resolved that means be taken to send surplus copies
to Colonial college libraries, to be accompanied by a copy of the
" Objects," and of the Contents of the Proceedings.
Some other matters of business having been attended to, it was
agreed that the next Meeting of the Council should be at 19, Bucking
ham-street, Adelphi, W.C., on Friday, the 2nd of October, at 4.30 p.m.
GENEBAL MEETING.
The 47th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, July 17th, at 4 p.m., the President in
the chair.
The President gave an address on the progress of the Census of
Hallucinations, of which he stated that 9,276 answers had been col
lected in England, and 2,822 in France. He proceeded to discuss the
proportion of veridical hallucinations, and in other respects to compare
the results obtained in England with those obtained previously by Mr.
Guroey, and with M. Marillier's in France. He finds that the pro
portion of apparitions at the moment of death to those of recognised
living people does not appear to differ very materially from that found
by Mr. Gurney.
Mb. F. W. H. Myers then concluded his address (begun May
29th), on " Problems of Personality," the substance of which will, it
is hoped, appear in our Proceedings. The speaker reviewed the
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 99
various classes of automatic and subliminal messages in their relation
to the primary memory of the automatist.
In the first place, some of these messages, like the " inspirations
of genius," or the brief apparitions which showed no purposive action
of their own, seamed to be assumed without any perceptible break
into the superficial chain of memory.
Secondly, in certain cases, a subsidiary or concurrent chain of
memory was manifested, as, for instance, in ordinary automatic writ
ing, where the messages written exhibited an intelligence involving
memory, but not necessarily interfering with the automatist's primary
intelligence and memory, which might be occupied with other matters
while the message was being written.
In the third place, the secondary chain of memory sometimes
became sufficiently dominant to alternate with the primary,—as in
such cases as those of Mme. B., Felida X., Ansel Bourne, <fcc.
In the fourth place, there were sometimes indications that a fusion
of memories had occurred, or at any rate that the subliminal memory
was wider in its scope, and represented the individuality more
completely than the superliminal.
The question of the various origins of automatic messages was then
once more discussed. It was concluded that, while at our present stage
of knowledge it was very difficult to distinguish what the subliminal
self might have itself acquired through the exercise of clairvoyant or
similar powers from what it might have acquired by telepathic impact
from other intelligences, yet there was reason to suppose that both
these factors must be taken into account. Indeed, the very existence
of the clairvoyant powers of the subliminal self indicated a realm of
laws under which even direct communication from discarnate intelli
gences lost much of its antecedent improbability.
Oases forwarded from America by Mr. Hodgson (automatic message
to Mrs. Bryan and another), were then read, which seemed to imply
communication from deceased persons.
The President then invited discussion on the papers read.
Mr. Edward Maitland observed that he saw no difficulty in
assuming the agency of deceased persons in the cases quoted by Mr.
Myers. He had had instances of writing in handwritings unknown to
the writer, and giving information also unknown.
Mr. Barkworth thought that though we have evidence for the
existence of the different " personalities " we had no warrant for
assuming an underlying " individuality " as Mr. Myers had done. Nor
was he able altogether to follow him in his view about messages being
sent up to the primary consciousness. He thought it more strictly in
accordance with known facts to suppose that the active p^rsjonalitv is ^
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, isai.
laid at rest when the other manifests itself. Not only in sleep, but
when fatigued or abstracted, images or broken sentences would
present themselves to the mind as in dreams. Quiescence of reason
seemed to be all that was required to enable us to perceive the emotions
of the passive consciousness, which are, perhaps, continually going on
though we do not know of it. By postulating two different personali
ties or memories many difficulties in understanding the working of our
minds were removed. He would not sit down without again urging
members of the Society to experiment on the passive consciousness by
crystal gazing, automatic writing, and, with due reservations, by
hypnotism.
Professor Barrett agreed about the importance of experiment
ing, and thought the Society greatly indebted to Mr. Myers for theories
that might guide experiments. He went on to describe a remarkable
case of automatic writing, which had come under his own observation
and which he hoped might some day be published. Though much that
was written in this case came from the automatist's own mind, some
things written seemed clearly to point to the operation of an external
intelligence.
THE CASE OF "EDINA."
During the last year certain letters signed " Edina " have appeared
in Light, giving an account of messages apparently written automati
cally by " Edina's " daughter, which messages, as Edina held, contain
many facts with which the young lady herself has never been normally
acquainted.
Through the courtesy of the editor of Light I obtained an intro
duction to " Edina," and have had much correspondence with him,
throughout the whole of which he has shown himself ready and
anxious to give me the fullest information with regard to these mes
sages. I also had the pleasure of making his personal acquaintance
last summer.
The investigation of the messages, however, promised to be a lengthy
matter, and I was unable to give the necessary time to the task. I
was fortunate enough to obtain the assistance of Mr. J. J. Withers,
Maltravers House, Arundel-street, Strand, a graduate in honours of
King's College, Cambridge, and one of the partners in a well-known firm
of London solicitors. I had known Mr. Withers for some years, and
felt a complete confidence, which the event, I think, has fully justified,
that any task which he undertook would be executed with thoroughness
and care.
In May, 1891, Mr. Withers sent me his report. I informed "Edina"
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 101
that it was of a negative character, and he preferred not to see it,
although I offered to send it to him. He has, however, written a letter
to Light of June 26th, giving an account of the affair, and implying
that Mr. Withers was not competent to perform his task. I have no
wish for controversy with "Edina," and I in no way feel myself aggrieved
by his letter ; but in justice to Mr. Withers it has been thought fitting
that some grounds on which his negative conclusion was based should
be put on record in this Journal.
Miss B., says Mr. Withers, aged 23, has been deaf since she was 8 years
of age. It has been asserted in the above-mentioned articles that lately
Miss B. has written messages from spirits of departed persons. Although in
the articles themselves there is no specific statement of claim, yet it is fair,
after reading the articles themselves, to formulate the claim of " Edina " as
above mentioned.
The evidence consists of a large number of the original writings made by
Miss B. ; secondly, written and oral information supplied by Mr. B. her
father ; and thirdly, personal observation.
As regards the letters themselves they are as a rule written in hands
which, to one who is not an expert in handwriting, appear dissimilar ; but in
no case have I had before me the writing of a person made in his lifetime to
compare with the writing which is alleged to be made by his spirit. The
writings, however, of the various spirits seem to remain characteristic,
and we are able to say, therefore, that each individuality has its handwriting,
whatever the individuality may be, be it real or fictitious. When tested,
however, as mentioned below, the writings themselves appear of little value
as either evidence for Spiritualism or against it.
Mr. B. endeavours most conscientiously to be accurate, but I am afraid
that his anxiety to prove his case makes it imperative that we should strictly
examine every piece of his evidence. Take one instance. In the number of
Light published on July 5th, 1890, Mr. B. says : " My daughter never heard
of such a person as Professor Wilson." That statement is misleading, for
the late Professor Wilson is still well-known in Edinburgh, and there is a
statue of him within a quarter of a mile from Mr. B.'s house. The presump
tion is very strong that Miss B. did know of the existence of Professor
Wilson. In the same article he mentions the fact of the existence of the
statue, but he does not seem to think it possible that Miss B. should have
seen it ; why, I am unable to gather.
Again, all through the articles he suggests that Miss B. is deaf and can
not, therefore, be supposed to have the ordinary intelligence of a normal
person. On this supposition the editor of Light, in a comment which he
makes on one of the letters, says : " That a deaf lady who could not have
heard any facts by normal means should write out facts respecting a man with
whom she was quite unacquainted is in itself singular." Now, the fact is
that Miss B. has been deaf since she was 8 years old, but she is an exceedingly
good lip-reader, and, in my presence, Mrs. B. dictated to her 37 words and
out of all these she only made one mistake. I do not count the errors in
spelling, which I will refer to afterwards. I have given these instances to
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
prove that Mr. B. 's evidence, although he wishes it to be accurate, must be
received with strict caution.
I will now state the facts concerning the messages which I hold to be
proven. I have examined 60 of the messages which Miss B. has written.
Of these 60 messages 56 consist, roughly speaking, of statements as to
matters which had been previous to the time of writing admittedly within the
knowledge of Miss B. or within the knowledge of one at least of her
family.
In Light " Edina " makes a difference between knowledge of Miss B. and
knowledge of the family, on the ground of the deafness of Miss B. This
distinction must be treated, for evidential purposes, as non-existent, as Miss
B. is a good lip-reader.
I likewise do not distinguish between past and present knowledge, as such
a distinction is immaterial.
First, I will give two messages characteristic of the 56 above mentioned.1
They are as follows : —
(1) David Livingstone, the African traveller : "I wrote you a few days
ago • and your pen went of the wrong line of another spirit I am quite
pleased with Stanley marriage and Miss Dorothy Tenant : he met her many
years ago and of course their marriage was kept a secret before he went
astray as African explorer. I saw him put a wreath on my stone and I was
sorry indeed to see Stanley was not very well. And he is a lucky man. You
will know I belonged to Lanark and I went a great deal on the desert plain
but oh, my dreams were of home, fain wad I be tae my ain countrie, but they
buried me in London.3 The blacks of Africa some were good to me but
half of them were rather noisy. Well, I did all I could to do something to
teach them, and as you see in the Map of Stanleys his places are dotted in
red. You will see some interesting pictures of some mishaps I had in Central
Africa. My thistle4 and prayer book, but when finished praying my
thoughts were of home to the dear ones who were waiting for me, but alas
my God took me away to dwell in his own story (?) and when your days are
done may we meet in that Heaven above where there is no pain troubles or
any more travels in the desert plain but travel the golden streets of Heaven
where flowers bloom on the roadsides. Such flowers are made to grow in
Eden are far prettier than those on earth. So farewell young friend who I
have just had the pleasure of writing through the spirit Lord till we meet
again. "David Livingstone."6
1 The handwriting of these messages is not always easy to read ; and it is possible
that the text given may be slightly inaccurate.—F. W. H. M.
2 " A Spirit " had previously written as " George Livingstone " !
3 Miss A. had visited Livingstone's grave in Westminster Abbey in 1876.
* Miss A. had been at the presentation of the freedom of the City to Stanley, and
had especially visited a statue of Livingstone in which he was represented with a
thistle in his buttonhole.—J. J. W.
6 To this Livingstone case I may append another note from personal knowledge.
The statement that "their marriage" (that of Mr. and Mrs. Stanley) "was kept a
secret before he went astray as African explorer " is altogether erroneous, as there was
no marriage (I), nor engagement to be married, until Mr. Stanley's return from Africa.
The marriage in Westminster Abbey on July 12th, 1890r was, undoubtedly, the first
which had taken place between the contracting parties. Nor is it true to say that
Mr. Stanley personally placed a wreath on Livingstone's stone. —F. W. H. M.
JvUy, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 103
After analysing another message, Mr. Withers turns to the four
cases which did not relate to matters of which Miss B.'s family were
supposed to be cognisant. He says :—
Miss B. has read many "messages" from one "Proffesor (stc) Sandring-
ham." The messages in themselves, though voluminous, have nothing
remarkable in them, dealing as they do principally with the little details of
the life of "Edina's" family. But as this "spirit " seemed an obliging and
friendly one, he was pressed to give some details of his life on earth, and ho
gave the following facts :—
(a) His name was Professor George Islington Sandringham, M.B.,
R.S.C.P.C.-G.
(b) He was born at Kendal in 1841.
(c) He died four years ago aged 46.
('T) When at Oxford he took first honours for proficiency in medicine.
(e) Died in Germany and was buried in Kendal.
This at least is tangible at first sight and if proved true might be of usej
Asked what the letters after his name meant, he answered : " Royal Surgical
College Physician College of Germany." Asked what college he was at at
Oxford he replied: "The College of Medicine in Oxford and Germany.
There is one named the Royal College of Medicine, and was called by a few
students in my days, but I cannot give any more information."
Pressed further, he stated that he would " let the Society hunt about if
they are particular about my whereabouts."
The Society happened to be anxious and tested the "facts" with the
following results as far as tangible.
(a) At another time he stated that his name was George Frederick
Sandringham.
(6) George Islington Sandringham was not born at Kendal in 1841, or
between 1837 and 1846, or anywhere else in England at that date.
(rf) He did not take first honours in proficiency in medicine, as he did
not matriculate between 1715 and 1885.
(e) He was not buried at Kendal between 1884 and 1886, as far as I can
discover.
Another communication, signed, " Robert Digbye," gives a faulty
reproduction of Pope's epitaph on Robert and Mary Digby, which
appear in the editions of his collected works. " Now Pope's poems,"
Mr. Withers continues, " are so universally met with that it must be
assumed that Miss B. or any other person has at some period of her
life seen and read them." . . . "The headnote to the epitaph in
the published edition gives all the information which Miss B. gives us."
On another occasion Miss B. reproduced approximately the inscrip
tion on a fine tomb in the Church of Holy Rood, Southampton. Mr.
Withers has not yet found this inscription in print, but so large a
number of books and articles on epitaphs have appeared, especially
articles in such magazines as Sunday at Home, Good Words, and the
like, that he has found it impossible to check them all.
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
I pass on to the last specimen of the four cases out of sixty in
which the messages contained facts of which none of Miss B.'s family
were cognisant. In this case, which Mr. Withers analyses at length,
a communication came professedly from Professor Wilson, which con
sisted mainly of an almost exact reproduction of a footnote in Mrs.
Gordon's biography of Professor Wilson, published about 1860, and
which " Edina " had read, though he had apparently no specific recollec
tion of these facts. The message consisted of a series of dates,
statements of marriages, &c. ; and no one, I think, will contend that
the coincidence was accidental.
Such cases are not infrequent with automatic writing, and may be
explained on several hypotheses :
(1) The writer may not really be writing automatically, but con
sciously reproducing facts acquired for the purpose. This, of course,
would be the view of an ordinary jury.
(2) The writer may be a true automatist, and the message may be
due to the revival of memories, forgotten by the superficial self, but
persisting in the sub-conscious or subliminal self. That this does
sometimes actually happen I think that our published cases prove.
(3) The knowledge of the book may have been acquired clair-
Voyantly by the sub-conscious self—tor, if anyone prefers so to express it,
communicated by some spirit—who, obviously, need not be the spirit
professing to give the message. Or the message might be derived
telepathically from the mind of another living person.
(4) It is also, of course, conceivable that a bond fide spirit may give
a messaget largely coinciding with some printed account. But to make
this hypothesis admissible the message should surely be other than a
string of statements such as " Andrew Wilson married Miss Aitken,
died 1812. Elizabeth Wilson married Sir John McNeill, G.C.B."
I think that few unbiassed readers will consider that the above
case needs either the third or the fourth of these hypotheses.
A point has been made of the handwritings of these messages. On
this matter Mr. Withers observes :—
Apart from the actual communications, I have examined the handwritings
of these various " spirits " who have written. I have had in all 92 original
spirit signatures. Of these 59 appear in a list written by Miss B. when
she had not the former writings of the same spirits before her. Of these
59 I have duplicates of 16, and accordingly these 16 which appear in the
independent list I can check by the other instances of the same signature.
I find of the 16, in 5 cases the two signatures of the same spirit are alike, in
5 cases doubtful, neither like nor unlike, and in 6 cases distinctly unlike.
Of the 33 signatures not in the independent list, 4 occur twice and so I
can check them. Of these 4 duplicates no two signatures are alike, 1 pair
are of doubtful likeness, and 3 pairs are distinctly unlike.
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 105
As regards " Edina " himself, Mr. Withers adds ::—
All through the investigation "Edina" himself has acted in the most
open and kind way, giving every facility for examination. It would perhaps
have saved trouble if he had been a little more critical and not so
anxious to believe ; but his bona fides are absolutely beyond doubt, and the
thanks of the Society are due to him for his public spirit and kindness in
allowing the question to be investigated. I can only thank him personally
for his kindness, and hope that even this report may be of some little use to
him.
John J. Withers.
May mh, 1891.
I will add that I, personally, should have been particularly glad if
these messages had proved of a convincing character. I have been
engaged for years in collecting automatic messages, and in publishing
them from time to time. I should naturally wish to believe all that
"Edina" believes about these communications. But a wish is one thing
and a bias is another thing ; and I think that no one without a very
strong bias could regard this series of messages as conclusive proof of
the agency of any mind external to the automatist's conscious or
unconscious self. If such cases are to be discussed at all, they must be
discussed according to well-considered, intelligible canons of evidence.
No personal feeling whatever need here be involved,—except the grati
tude which I concur with Mr. Withers in expressing towards an
informant so painstaking, courteous, and candid as " Edina."
Frederic W. H. Myers.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G. 199. Dreams.
Professor Barrett having heard that Mrs. Parnane, living at Raheny,
County Dublin, had had some remarkable dreams respecting the
manner of her son's death, went to see her and writes as follows :—a
Mrs. Parnane is a poor but respectable old woman, with an intelligent
and honest face ; she gave me the following account of her dream :—
'' Some ten years ago her son John left home and went to sea ; a sailor friend
gave him a discharge which bore the name of R. Allen, so he took that name
and by it was always known. He wrote occasionally, but the last letter from
him was two years ago last June, saying he was going in the ship Glengoil, and
he did not like the crew. She fretted about him a good deal and one night
in August, 1889 (the date she is sure of was August 10th, 1889), she dreamt she
saw her son standing by her side nearly naked and his face all ' bubbled
with water as if sprinkled with meal. ' He said nothing and disappeared. She
awoke ; and in the morning told her daughter (who is a Mrs. Macdonald,
living near her at Raheny) that her son was dead and she had seen his dead
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
body ; she thought he had been wrecked. Her daughter told her not to
mind as she was only fretting. In November, 1889, she heard her son was
dead, that he had had a fit, but afterwards the captain wrote and told her he
would send further particulars when he reached port. But she heard nothing.
In January, 1890, she had a vision in her sleep of three men standing over and
looking down at the dead body of her son, whom she saw lying on the deck
murdered. There was no blood on the body, but she felt he had been killed.
The man at his head was dark and had flannels on, and had something in his
hand like a soda-water bottle in shape, but not made of glass. The man at
his feet had a fireman's blue jacket on, and the one at his side was well-
dressed and ' had a dust coat and a ring on his finger and had a sandy
complexion.' Mrs. Farnane then said : 'I went up to Mr. Chatterton in the
morning and told him what I had seen, and said I could get no rest till I
knew about my son. So Mr. Chatterton wrote for me and at last got a copy
of the log of the Glengoil for the 7th August, 1889, which stated that my son
had been killed by the donkey-engine man, and that the man had been put
ashore at Gibraltar to take his trial. Since then I have had no dreams nor
sight of my son, except one night when I thought I saw him standing near
me, looking sorrowful, and he said, 'God help you.' But a queer thing
happened about February, 1890. One night I had gone to bed when I heard
a voice calling me to get up, so I went to the door, and opened it ; someone
with brown clothing on pushed me back, but I saw no one, I mean there was
nobody really there. So I stirred the fire and sat up all the rest of the night
and told Mr. Chatterton next day."
I went to see Mrs. Farnane's daughter, Mrs. Macdonald. Unfortunately
she had gone from home for the day, but Mrs. Farnane promised to get me her
recollection. The copy of the log was sent to the "Seamen's Union, Cardiff"
in order to get her son's things, as the vessel was there, and it has never been
returned. The names of the owners of the vessel are, I find, Messrs. Lindsay,
Gracie and Co. , Newcastle-on-Tyne. Mrs. Farnane's husband worked as an
under gardener at Lord Ardilaun's for 29 years.
April 1th, 1891. a W. F. Barrett.
Mr. Chatterton writes corroborating the above as follows :—
Belmont, Raheny, Co. Dublin, April 17th, 1891.
. . . It is all true, but there are some omissions which, if put in,
would have strengthened the Spiritualistic case.
* . * * * * #
I had been endeavouring to persuade Mrs. Farnane that her son died of
fireman's apoplexy, but she would not be comforted and her persistence
brought the facts to light.
Professor Barrett saw Mr. Chatterton in June, 1891, and writes :
" [He] says the old woman has forgotten some of the more striking
things she told him ; unluckily he has got no note of them."
In reply to inquiries made through the owners of the vessel, the
captain wrote as follows :—
2, The Shrubbery, Topsham, April 21st, 1891.
Gentlemen,—I have received your letter of the 20th inst., with enclosure,
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 107
copy of the letter you have received re the death of R. Allen. The copy of
the log could be obtained by applying to the Board of Trade (or Register-
General of Seamen). Ship's deck log would not give any particulars of tho
occurrence. It is the official log that particulars are in. It is quite a
mistake to say the man was murdered. There is no doubt in my mind that
the cause of death was heart disease. The man had been drinking during
the day, while at Point de Galle, and in the afternoon, soon after leaving
there, he commenced a quarrel with the donkeyman, Thomas Ellis. I
believe that Ellis struck, or pushed him, and he (Allen) fell down dead in an
instant. Ellis was committed for trial at Gibraltar, and was discharged in
prison. And I understand that he was acquitted. I have not seen or
heard of him since.
The vision part of the letter does not correspond with the facts. No
man would be wearing a dust coat for certain. In fact, the officers and
myself were dressed in white drill clothes, the weather being too hot to
wear any other sort of clothes. The complexion corresponds with myself
and chief officer. But neither are in the habit of wearing a ring at sea.
—I am, gentlemen, your obedient servant,
H. E. Holman.
The following is an extract from the Official Log Book :—
Ship Glenguil of the Port of Leith. 7/8/89. 4.45 p.m. Latitude 5t55
north. Longitude 80 '06 east. Richard Allen (fireman) was quarrelling with
Thomas Ellis (donkeyman) on the deck forward in the presence of John
Curry (fireman), William Magrigor (fireman), and John Wilson (fireman).
Thomas Ellis struck the said Richard Allen, and the latter fell down and
appeared to be fainting. But he did not recover consciousness any more,
and died immediately.
rH. E. Holman, Master.
Signed -j R. W. Fowler, First Mate.
iG. Raines, Engineer.
It may be interesting to compare with above the 2nd hand account
originally received.
Two years ago an old woman came to a friend of mine and handed him a
letter addressed to her which she requested him to open and read, as she
was unable to read. lie found the letter was from a shipping company,
informing the old woman that her son, who had been a stoker on board one
of the company's vessels, was dead, &c. Her reply was : "I know he is
deUd because he is tormenting me every night, but I think he was murdered
from what I see every night." Her story was that she frequently saw her
son lying on the floor of some place where there were a lot of chains
lying about, and that a man came with a soda-water bottle and struck the
son on the head and killed him.
Chatterton—my friend—wrote for a copy of ship's log, and found that the
son had been killed by a man in the forecastle with a belaying pin—which
had a round top—and that the ship landed the murderer at Gibraltar, where
he was tried and sentenced to penal servitude for manslaughter,
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
Is this a case for the Psychological Society 1 This occurred at Raheny,
two years ago. All parties are alive. Chatterton has taken everything down
in writing.
L. 881. Visual.
A case somewhat similar to this in respect of repeated impressions was
fully recorded in the German magazine Sphinx for February, 1891, pp. 85-87.
Briefly it was as follows : Herr Mutschlechner, who writes in Sphinx
under the pseudonym of Walter, met, as he thought, on September 24th,
1890, in the Kurgarten of Gorz, where he and his family were staying, an
old friend of his wife's father, who had for years been unable to leave his
room in Munich. Herr Mutschlechner turned to speak to him, but could then
no longer see him. On the 26th of September he again saw, as he thought,
this old gentleman walking in front of him, but he lost sight of him at the
next side-walk before he could overtake him. This is corroborated by
Frau Mutschlechner, who herself subsequently had two dreams suggesting
the death of the gentleman in question. In November they learnt that he
had died on September 26th, and in the same letter were informed of brighter
prospects for their own future which they owed to the deceased.
We have received letters authenticating the case and giving real
names, &c., from the editor of Sphinx.
The following is a more ordinary case of an apparition at the time
of death.
L 882. Ad P" Visual. Borderland.
From Mrs. Marshall, 50, Eaton-place, Brighton.
November, 1890.
The foliowing is a case, coming within the range of my own experience, of
a lad of 17 years appearing to his godmother at the moment of his death.
The lad was dying of consumption, and wrote to me to come to him. He
was hundreds of miles distant from where I was residing at the time.
On this particular evening I retired to rest much earlier than usual, as I
felt a severe cold coming on. I was in bed at a quarter-past eight, and at 20
minutes to nine I saw standing at the door, illumined by a soft light
which appeared to emanate from his person, and thereby rendered him
visible, as the room was dark. An ecstatic expression lit up his countenance,
and he appeared to be habited in his usual day wearing apparel. I felt
intuitively that it was a phantom, although real appearance, and was daily in
expectation of receiving news of his departure. On the third day from this
occurrence I got a letter informing me that he had died at the very time I
saw him.
Mr. G. A. Smith writes :—
November 21st, 1890.
I have seen Mrs. Marshall to-day. She showed me the lad's letter dated
February 5th, 1866, in which he expresses his desire to see Mrs. Marshall ;
he only writes the first page, it is concluded very despondently by his
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 109
mother. Mrs. Marshall was at Monkstown, Co. Dublin, at the time, and the lad
George was at Monkstown, Co. Cork. Mrs. Marshall is confident that
she had not been asleep when she had the vision ; it was about 8.30 or 20 to
9 on a Sunday in March, 1866, about a month after the receipt of the above
letter. About three days after the vision she received a letter announcing
George's death, which took place at 20 to 9 on Sunday. The mother died in
1885. Mrs. Marshall is sure that she was not thinking of George at the
time. She has had no other hallucinations, but [on one occasion she had a
dream that impressed her a good deal about a friend being in trouble, an
accident which proved fatal having happened to the friend, apparently at the
same time.] Mrs. Marshall mentioned her experience to others at the time,
but these persons are not living now.
Later, Mr. Smith wrote :—
May 28th, 1891.
Having ascertained from the register of deaths, Dublin, that the date of
George 's death was February 18th, 1866, I saw Mrs. Marshall again
this afternoon and asked her to explain the discrepancy. She said that
having her memory only to rely upon she was not surprised to find that
she was a month out. She is absolutely certain that her experience was on
a Sunday, because she remembers church was interfered with by her cold. I
find that February 18th, 1866,.was a Sunday. Mrs. Marshall is confident
that at the time she noticed the exactness of the coincidence ; the news of
the death came not later than three days after her vision.
The next is a case of a complicated apparition—a kind of vision
at the time of the death of the person seen, but in which the details of
the vision are not veridical.
L. 883. Ad Pn Visual. Child percipient. Second hand, as good
as first.
The following narrative was obtained for us by Mr. G. E.
Humphreys, of Caius College, Cambridge, who is personally acquainted
with Mrs. A. He took down the account from her and witnessed her
signature :—
March 12th, 1891.
About the year 1858 I was living in Jamaica. My son J. was then
about seven years old. One evening I was at the piano in the drawing-room,
playing the accompaniment for my children, who were grouped round at
my back and singing an old song called " The Old English Lady. " Suddenly
J. stopped singing and called out, "I see Grannie, dressed in white, with
a spud in her hand, under the cedar tree." I stopped playing and told him
to go on singing. Again he repeated, "I see Grannie, dressed in white,
with a spud in her hand, under the cedar tree." I took it to be just a child's
fancy, and the singing went on after this as usual. The candles were lighted
in the drawing-room, and the piano was placed so that the children and I
were facing the open door which opened on to the dark verandah. The
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
verandah was closed in with jalousies. I at once understood J. to be
speaking of a cedar tree near a pond in the garden of an estate where
my mother was then living. She was in the habit of taking a spud into
the garden to dig up weeds, and the child may easily more than once have
seen her as he described. [The estate in question] was 40 miles away from
our house.
I thought nothing more of it. The next morning, about six o'clock, a
mounted messenger arrived with the news of my mother's death. She must
have been alive at the time J. declared he saw her in the garden, but
was no doubt ill in her room. She died of a malignant fever, very suddenly,
and we had had no previous news of her illness.
At the same time, or shortly afterwards, my sister C. was taken
ill with the same fever. She lay for some time in a dangerous condition and
was not expected to recover. During this time J.'s nurse came to me
one morning, saying that during the night he had several times called out,
" I see Aunt C. riding up and down on Prince." A long verandah
was outside the nursery and it was up and down this that the child said he
saw his aunt riding. Prince was her grey pony.
When I heard this, I at once concluded in my own mind that my sister
was dead. She did not die then, but was at the point of death, the doctors
having given up hope. She recovered and lived for years afterwards.
(Signed) H. A.
In answer to our questions, Mr. Humphreys sends the following
further information :—
Jamaica, May 4th, 1891.
1. Mr. J. A. was not only not in the habit of seeing visions at that time
but doe3 not appear to have seen anything of the kind, either before or
since. These are the only two instances known.
2. He must have known of his aunt's illness at the time he saw her
riding up and down the verandah. Mrs. A. says, however, that she never
mentioned to him or in his hearing the connection there was in her
own mind between his vision of her mother and the death. As I stated,
the vision occurred in the evening. At (or about) daybreak next morning
Mrs. A. was awakened by her husband asking her if she could bear
to hear bad news. She had no idea who it was of whom the bad news
was to be. It was not until she heard of her mother's death that she
remembered J.'s visions. She was particularly careful never to allude to it in
his presence, being afraid of encouraging any such possible tendency in him.
3. Mr. A. has " some sort of hazy recollection" of the matter, due most
probably, as he says, to having been told of it afterwards by his mother. No
corroboration appears possible. Mrs. A. was anxious to make little of it,
and said nothing of it to Mr. A. until he was almost grown up. Mr. A.
senior has been dead many years.
Mr. J. A. strikes one as being in every way the reverse of " visionary "
or "imaginative."
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Ill
MR. KIRK'S EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE
FROM A DISTANCE. (L. 863, continued.)
The present communication from Mr. Kirk is a continuation of the
account given in the Journal for February, 1891, of his experiments in
thought-transference.
In the present series a time has always been fixed at which the
percipient, Miss G., should sit in the dark waiting for an impression.
The success obtained is greater, we think, than may appear at first
sight ; although in those experiments at least where the percipient was
at Pembroke and the agent, Mr. Kirk, at Plumstead, little more than
somewhat indefinite appearances of light seem to have been transferred.
That these appearances were due to chance is unlikely, because Miss
G. has not had any impressions of the kind when Mr. Kirk was not
attempting to impress her (except on one occasion, described below,
p. 114, when he has reason to think the impression was due to his
action). That they were due to her expectation of seeing something is
improbable, because on the only two occasions when he felt that he
was not succeeding in impressing her, and recorded at the time in his
notebook that he expected a failure, and on those occasions only, she
had no impression whatever.
The success would, no doubt, be more striking could Mr. Kirk
count on producing an impression when Miss G. was not expecting one
at all. But, though he has sometimes succeeded in doing this, as
mentioned in his former paper, he generally fails ; probably because it
is impossible, without prearrangement, to secure that the percipient
shall be in the quiescent condition with suitable light, itc., which seems
necessary for the success of the experiment.
The following brief tabular statement of the experiments may help
the reader to estimate them. We have purposely omitted from it all
mention of the disposition of the lights, movements of the agent's eyes,
tfcc. These and other interesting circumstances are wisely noted by
Mr. Kirk, and may quite well, as he supposes, have affected the results.
But we think it will require many more experiments to prove this ;
and in order at the present stage to answer the question whether Miss
G.'s experiences were due to chance or to Mr. Kirk's exertions, it seems
best to confine ourselves to the simple consideration that he was
endeavouring on each occasion to transfer the impression of a bril
liantly lighted object of a certain form,
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
NO. OF
EXPERIMENT.
Object looked at
bt Agent.
12
13
14—1st part
Square picture, dark,
with light mount.
Rectangular white card
with letters C A on
it, A smudged.
White disc with small
black square patch
in centre, on black
card.
Same as Experiment 1.
Rectangular white card
with letters C A T on
it.
White disc with dark
spot in centre on
black card.
Word COD with rec
tangular line round
it on white card.
Letter A on white disc
on black card.
Same as 8, but interrup
tions ana expected
failure recorded.
Same as 8, but interrup
tions and probable
failure recorded.
Same as 8.
Same as 8.
White card with design
in centre.
White card with dark
ring on it, in centre
of which were 5
spots.
Impression received
by Percipient.
Dull light shining
through square win
dow.
Faint luminous appear
ance almost forming
a square at times.and
with crescent . like
form like letter C
near centre.
Luminous appearance
taking form of disc
at times,with a small
triangle in centre.
Faint luminous appear
ance.
Light which sometimes
seemed to concen
trate into brighter
centre.
Reflection had rays of
light as though
strong light shining
through small orifice.
Momentary flashes of
light.
Faint luminous appear
ance with bright
constantly changing
figures in centre,
sometimes nearly up
right lines,sometimes
unequal curves.
Distance between
Agent and Percipient,
and other Remarks.
Miss G. at Plumstead,
400 yards.
No impression.
No impression.
Luminous patch with
small bright dashes
appearing and dis
appearing.
Similar to above, but
brighter.
Miss G. did not sit up
. for this, but saw pale
wavy light, while ex
periment was going
on just before she
dropped asleep.
Sometimes 2, some
times 3 very bright
spots on a pale
ground, with occa
sionally a complete
circle round them.
Miss G. at Pembroke.
Miss G. at Plumstead, 400
yards. She had been
shown the diagram
and knew it was to be
used. She did not
know the experiment
would be divided into
parts.
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research 113
NO. OF
Experiment.
14—2nd part
15—1st part
2nd part
16—1st part
2nd part
3rd part
Object looked at
by Agent.
Naked candle in window
between curtains,Mr.
Kirk trying experi
ments inafter-images,
4c.
Word SALT in black
on small white card
on larger black card
on white card larger
still.
Word KIRK on white
disc on black card.
White disc with letters
JOE on it (not in
line), on black card
board.
White disc with letters
K 1 R K mi it (not in
line),oncream colour
ed cardboard.
White square board
with ring surround
ing cross, in angles
of which were large
spots.
Impression Received
by Percipient.
Distance between
Agent and Percipient,
and other remarks.
Small disc composed of
bright fine circular
lines, quivering and
almost revolving.
Nothing appeared till
this part was over.
Luminous patch, faint,
with very bright dots
and lines, whose
arrangement as
sketched by Miss G.
has someresemblance
to word Kirk as it
was on diagram.
Small disc with bright
lines flashing within
it.
Bright lines on a faint
background ; no disc.
Three very bright spots
in a pale luminosity.
Miss G. at Plumstead,
400 yards.
Miss G. at Plumstead,
400 yards. She had
been led to think a
quite different dia
gram,whichwasshown
to her, would be used.
What she saw seemed
to her to have no re
semblance to it. She
was not told whether
the experiment would
be divided into parts.
To these we add for reference the four similar experiments recorded in the
February Journal.
(6)
(7)
(8)
(»)
Lamp shade seen from
below, inner rim illu
minated.
Oblong white card with
letters C A on it.
White disc standing in
bay window between
two white curtains.
White disc with round
spot in centre.
A streak of light like
reflection with deep
shadow above.
Oblong luminous ap
pearance with wavy
cloud-like movement
within it.
Bright reflection as if
a strong light shone
through a bay win
dow and lighted the
curtains.
Luminous clouds, which
several times concen
trated into a bright
disc.
Miss G. at Plumstead,
400 yards.
Miss G. at Hfracombe.
Miss G. at Plumstead,
Looking at this list it will be seen that :—
(1) In each case, except the two (9 and 10) where Mr. Kirk expected
failures, and the first half of Experiment 15,1 a luminous appearance
was seen by the percipient.
1 We may remark that in some cases it is more than 10 minutes after Mr. Kirk
begins the experiment before anything is perceived by Miss G., and that in the case of
Experiment 15 only 10 minutes were allowed.
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
(2) When Miss G. was at Pembroke and Mr. Kirk at Plumstead,
she did not have definite impressions of form ; but in the majority of
cases when she was no further off than her own house at Plumstead—
400 yards from Mr. Kirk—some approximation to the form of the
bright object looked at by him was perceived by her. This seems to
show that distance has some effect on the success of the experiments.
(3) In no instance where Miss G. saw a definite form could it be
called distinctly wrong (unless possibly in the second part of Experi
ment 14).
(4) In two of the three instances in which the experiment was
divided into parts, Miss G.'s impression changed the right number of
times, though the fact that there was any change on the agent's part
was unknown to her.
These facts, taken with those mentioned above, afford, we think,
a very strong presumption that telepathy was at work ; and if the
experiments do not appear brilliantly successful, it must be remembered
that we have very few systematic courses of experiment with agent
and percipient at so great a distance from one another to compare
them with.
The following description given by Mr. Kirk, in a letter, of his
mental attitude while experimenting, is worth noting. He says :—
"I ought to tell you that, while making an experiment, I do not simply
look at the diagram and think of the percipient. I transport myself
[mentally of course] into her room and actually see her ; and I often succeed
so far as to carry on the experiment in her room. This was difficult at first,
but now I have no difficulty in being in two places at the same moment."
In this connection we may appropriately describe the occasion on
which Miss G. had an impression of light when Mr. Kirk had no
intention of producing one on her. He was trying to produce an effect
on Mr. and Mrs. G. A. Smith at a distance, with no particular result.
In the course of his experiment he twice used a magnesium light to
illuminate his diagram—the second time was about 11.45 p.m. He
had a distressing headache and found it difficult to fix his attention.
This is his account of what took place :—.
"In spite of myself, I could not help taking Miss G. into this ex
periment. . . . Several times, to my annoyance, I awoke to the
consciousness that I was fixedly experimenting on Miss G., instead of my
two percipients who were patiently sitting. ... On Monday evening
Miss G. asked me what had taken place during the experiment on Sunday
night with Mr. and Mrs. Smith. I told her how I could not help including
her. She said, ' I am glad to hear that, as, at first, I was inclined to think
that what I saw was purely imaginary, and I have a dread of thinking that
I should be liable to subjective hallucinations. I had been in bed some
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 115
minutes, and was just dropping to sleep, when I was startled by a sudden
blaze of light which seemed to sparkle and rise and fall. It completely
awoke me, and I sat up in bed and examined the window to notice whether
the appearance came from that direction : but it did not. I, of course, was
not thinking of you. I struck a light to look at my watch, and found the
time between a quarter and ten minutes to 12.' "
Mr. Kirk would be very glad to receive criticisms and suggestions
from anyone interested in his experiments, which he is still continuing
under varied conditions. He also asks us to say that he will be glad
if any lady or gentleman willing to act as percipient to him will write
to him.
The following is his account of the experiments :—
2, Ripon-villas, Upper Ripon-road, Plumstead.
Of the experiments described in this paper Nos. 4 to 13 inclusive have
been made with Miss G., between Plumstead and Pembroke (South Wales),
myself acting as the agent in each instance. Dates and hours are recorded,
and notes of the experiments made independently by agent and percipient.
My notes of each experiment, with the exception of Nos. 1, 2, and 3,
have been witnessed by my wife as having been written before I received
Miss G.'s report.
The phenomena which have been incidental to these experiments (as also
to some of those printed in the Journal for February) are, to the percipient :
(1) luminous appearances in every instance ; (2) momentary or rapid flashes
or dashes of light, continuing for some minutes ; (3) bright and constantly
changing appearances—such as rolling clouds of light—in the centre of
faintly luminous background ; (4) rays of strong, bright light, as though
projected through a small orifice ; (5) radiation, or reflection, or diffusion
of light.
As probably influencing these characteristics, the visual impressions of
the agent will be found to be of importance, e.g., flickering of the flames of
the lanterns, causing moving shadows on the face of the disc, the effects of
which may have distorted its shape to the eyes of the percipient. It has
not been found necessary to keep the body rigidly in one position during the
experiment,1 nor the eyes on the diagram with a fixed stare. The latter, in
fact, has been found impossible to do, owing to the fierce glare of light
thrown on the diagram, and relief has had to be sought by removing the
eyes from the diagram to various parts of the room, and back to the diagram,
alternately. These movements of the eyes have probably, in some instances,
been the cause of the percipient seeing "flashes" or "dashes" of light,
and also the after-effect, or after-image, of the diagram, of which Experi
ment 1 seems to be a remarkable instance.
1 As a matter of fact, I have frequently walked about the room, keeping my eyes,
at the same time, on the diagram. I have also frequently altered the focus of my
gaze by approaching close to the diagram (my eyes not being more than 12 inches from
it) and then gradually withdrawing backwards to a distance of four or five yards,
noting the effect of the after-image of the diagram on the face of the diagram itself.
All these movements may have affected the visualisation of the percipient.
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, lsoi,
It must be pointed out that where black or blue letters have been on the
diagram they have been seen by me as black or blue letters mixed up with
fiery, moving clouds, in the centre of the white disc or board. These
luminous, moving, cloudy appearances are due to a defect in my vision, and
their apparent transference suggests that the transference has its origin in a
physical or material cause.
For about five years, immediately past, I was troubled with a pheno
menon of retinal vision in seeing things either blurred or doubled. Thus, a
new moon appeared to me as two new moons ; a person's features were
blurred and rendered almost unrecognisable, even at a short distance ; a
man's legs were presented to me as four legs blended ; and a thin post, such
as a flagstaff, became two distinct posts. To restore a normal focus, I had
to wear specially constructed glasses ; and it is only within the past few
months I have been able, without experiencing much inconvenience, to dis
pense with these glasses. Still, the visual defect is, at times, especially in
strong light, present, and I have experienced it more or less, in every one of
my experiments ; and to endeavour to overcome this tendency I have had
to resort to a constant rapid blinking of the eyelids ; but this has only
resulted in momentary restoration of clearness of outline ; and when an
experiment has been of long duration, the blinking process has entirely failed
in its purpose, even for an instant. Besides this tendency to blur the letters,
the eyes became unsteady—shifting—and the visual combination has resulted
in my seeing bright, central cloud-like movements, the black letters or black
design in the diagram being, nevertheless, plainly visible. Again, it has not
been found possible to confine these luminous clouds to a central point.
Whenever a determined attempt has been made to keep the eyes steadily
fixed on a diagram they have been drawn away to another part of the card
board in use by an exceedingly quick involuntary movement, which carried
the luminous after-effect with it as a trail of light.
There is one invariable phenomenon attending these transfers of light
which, I think, it is essential to record in view of a prospective theoretical
investigation, since it bears upon an unsettled question as to whether
telepathic transference is due "primarily to sensation or primarily to idea."
In every instance of these experiments the white face of the disc, &c.,
has been seen by the percipient as faintly luminous, while the black spots,
&c., have been seen brightly luminous—in other words, the complementary
colours, say, or visual after-impressions of the white and black, have been
presented to the vision of the percipient. Now, when I am looking at a
white disc with, say, a black spot on it, my sensation or idea of the combina
tion is that the white is white, and that the black is black—not the comple
mentary colours or hues, as seen by the percipient ; and if the transfer is
due to sensation or idea, why are not the white and black transferred as
white and black? That this is not the cise would seem to demonstrate that
the percipient's visualisation is not affected by either sensation or idea.
There would appear to be a submerged activity at work transmitting, when I
am looking at the white and black diagram, the impression of light it is making
on my brain—not, it would seem, on my mind,
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 117
Experiment 1.—'October 19th, 1890. 10.30. Object of transfer: A
picture about 18in. square, narrow gilt frame, white border inside frame to
edge of picture 4in. wide. Picture : coloured lithograph of child with white
antimacassar thrown coquettishly over its head, on a very dark background.
Gas full on with lighted lamp, also bull's-eye lantern concentrated on picture.
Blinked eyes many times, removed eyes from picture, casting after-impression
on various parts of the room. Closed experiment 10.50.
Miss G.'s report:— "Soon after 10.30 saw light reflections in various
directions ; cannot describe them better than by saying it seemed as if a dull
light were shining through a large square window. About 10.45 a small
bright light appeared with radiations, almost as if a burning glass were being
used ; in about two minutes it suddenly and entirely disappeared."
Analysis. —Except to one "behind the scenes," there would appear to
be little or no connection between the object set for transfer—a picture—
and the " dull light shining through a large square window." An outsider
would probably fail to see a success in the experiment. Yet it was, I think,
a remarkable success. It should be borne in mind that my experiments are
solely directed towards ascertaining the effects of the transfer of light. If
you will place a patch of dark paper on a white surface, gaze at them for a
minute and then lift your eyes to the ceiling or cast them elsewhere, you
will see that the after-image of the dark patch will be more or less luminous,
while the white border will appear of a bluish shade. Now, my picture was
square, had a dark centre and a white border. Miss G.'s window was square,
with a dull light shining through the centre. The square window, then, was
my square picture ; the dark centre of the picture was the dull light in the
centre of the square window ; the dark centre of the picture having been
transferred sufficiently luminous to be distinguishable from the fainter lumin
osity of the white border. Since the subject of the picture (the child) was
not transferred (being absorbed probably by the fierce lights employed),
Miss G. , I think, may well be excused for likening the appearance to a window.
But the window is described as large. Well, your estimate of the size of the
after-image of the object you gaze at will depend upon the distance of the
surface on which you cast it. If you look beyond the object, the after-image
will give the idea of being larger than the object itself ; but if, on the contrary,
you look at the after-image nearer to yourself, it will appear smaller than
the object. My picture during the experiment was set upright between the
arms of an easy-chair, which was placed midway between the end of my
dining-table and the bay window, and not more than three feet from my eyes ;
and as I cast the after-image sometimes on the dark window curtains, some
times on the wall and ceiling of the room, it seemed magnified in size.
Now for another feature. From my notes you will see that I removed
my eyes from the picture, casting after-impressions of it on various parts of
the room. Miss G. reports that she saw light reflections (of her window) in
various directions, so that it seems as though my after-images were quite
distinct to her perception.
1 My notes of this experiment were made the same night, and no conversation
respecting it occurred between Miss G. and myself before I received her written
report.
liS Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
There is one more feature to be noticed. At' the end of the experiment
Miss G. reports that she saw a " small, bright light with radiations, almost
as if a burning glass were being used."
In re-hanging the picture, my head would be between it and the gas
globe, and, as I always make a point of concentrating my mind on Miss G.
up to the last moment, the "small, bright light with radiations" was probably
the light of the globe, and, if so, was, of course, quite an involuntary
transfer, since I had not the globe in my mind, but the picture only.
Experiment 2.—December 2nd, 1890. 11 to 11.30. Object : White
cardboard (17in. by 12in.), with black letters C A in centre. Letter A
smudged.
Two bull's-eye lanterns—no other lights—placed close to diagram on
small table in bay window. Usual process of blinking eyelids, &c.
Miss G.'s report:—"Saw faint luminous appearance, at times almost
forming a square about 18 inches, for a few seconds 1 a design which I
cannot describe better than by calling it crescent-like appeared near centre."
[In answer to subsequent inquiries, Miss G. stated that she saw the crescent-
like form turned the right way for the letter C.]
Experiment 3.—December 5th, 1890. 11 to 11.20. Object : White disc
in centre of black covered cardboard ; small square black patch of paper in
centre of disc. Usual process of blinking eyelids, &c.
Miss G.'s report:—t"Luminous appearance similar to Tuesday's, but
taking form of disc at times, when a small triangle appeared in centre."
These three experiments were made in Plumstead, the distance from
house to house being about 400 yards.
Experiment 4. — "Plumstead to Pembroke. Saturday, January 24th,
1891. 10.30 to 11.15. p.m. Object : Picture of child with white antima
cassar over its head (same picture as in Experiment 1) placed in recess
of dining-room. Picture hung in centre of recess. On each side of
picture, fixed in opposite corners of recess, are two black wood fancy
brackets. On each bracket placed a piece of lighted candle, so that
each candle threw a side light on face of picture. Two bull's-eye lanterns
so placed at distances as to form reflections on picture. One gas globe
burning. Lanterns so arranged as not to overwhelm picture with light.
As picture hung against a light-coloured wall paper it was not so distinctly
denned as though the background had been dark. Sat facing picture
and candles at a distance of about four or five feet. Same process of
rapidly blinking eyelids and casting after-images of picture and candles
on walls and ceiling was gone through as in former experiments. Varied
the process occasionally by looking directly at each lighted candle, casting
after-images about the walls, which reminded me of a series of fireworks.
On the table in the recess were piles of books ; but attention was solely
directed to picture and candles. Occasionally got up and stood close to
1 "For a few seconds" does not mean that the " crescent-like " form was only
Seen once during the time occupied with the experiment. It is the rule that the
design of the diagram appears at intervals of a few seconds, corresponding, perhaps,
with the number of the breaks in continuity of the luminous current. The details
of what Miss G. really sees are not given, perhaps, as fully as might be desirable,
but I cannot do otherwise than give her exact words.
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 119
picture, throwing a stronger light on it at same time with a bull's-eye lantern
held in my hand. In no instance did the after-image of picture appear
otherwise than luminous. The dark square in centre was luminous ; the
white border of bluish tint ; the gilt frame was luminous, same as dark
centre square. Do not expect, however, that anything was seen but the
candle lights, or exhibition of 'fireworks.' Written before hearing from
Miss G.—Witness (Signed) E. Kirk."
Miss G.'s report :— "25/1/91 (following morning). Last night saw only
faint luminous appearance—nothing definite. Soon after hearing eleven
strike, it seemed as if gas, or other light, was suddenly extinguished."
Remarks from notebook:—"MissG.'s report, though short, is fully descrip
tive of the actual result. The latter was not quite as I had anticipated, but
was more surprising. The light of the candles seems to have asserted its
presence to the exclusion of every object in the recess. It will be found on
looking at an object placed centrally between two lights that the latter will
claim the most prominent attention of the eyes. Although I could see the
picture distinctly, as also the after-images (luminous only) yet the after
images of the candle flames always accompanied those of the picture, and
appeared as two blurred clouds of light. I gather from the report that
Miss G. saw nothing but a luminous appearance—a persistent patch, or
diffusion of light. That this luminous appearance was real, is proved by her
remark, viz., that soon after eleven it seemed to her as if gas or other light
had been suddeidy extinguished. That is, she was suddenly left in the dark. *a
Now, at about three orfour minutes after eleven, I blew out the candles, thus
making the coincidence complete. It would seem from the experiment that
the combined candle light held entire possession of the field of vision. I
may add that, as I have recorded 11.15 as the time occupied with the experi
ment, I employed the remaining minutes in a catch trial on Miss G. That
is, I cast the reflection of one bull's-eye lantern on the white disc of a
diagram, on the chance of impressing her while going to sleep. This was a
failure."
This example of the phenomenon of the dominance of candle light is not
the first I have noticed. It occurred in two previous experiments with Miss
G. , but which I have to regret I have not recorded. In the first experiment
I placed a naked candle light in front (within a couple of inohes) of the
same picture, casting after-images of the flame in various directions, and
occasionally lifting my eyes from the flame in a vertical line to the ceiling
of the room. This caused an unbroken line of light, very similar to the
upward flight of a sky-rocket. Miss G. describes all this as something
like fireworks—the rockets being plainly seen. The picture itself was not
seen.
For the second experiment I placed the same picture on a chiffonier,
standing upright against a shelf which runs across it, leaving a space of
several inches between the back of the picture and the back of the chiffonier,
1 Mies G. has since told me that this effect of being suddenly left in the dark was
what did actually strike her at the moment. She nardly knows how to describe
the luminosity she saw, but its disappearance was as sudden and realistic as though
someone had really turned off the gas in her room.
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
On the board of the latter stood various table articles, such as white stone
ware egg and cruet stands, silver toast-rack, teapot, &c. On these bright
articles I concentrated the light of two bull's-eye lanterns, which brought
them into high relief. But in order to show up plainly the ornamented
back of the chiffonier, I stood a lighted candle behind the picture. This not
only had the desired effect, but also cast its reflection on the wall and a bit
of the ceiling—a prominent patch of light.
Now, bright as the reflection from the bull's-eye lanterns made the other
articles, it was only a prominent patch of light that was seen by Miss G.,
and this was seen very vividly.
Experiment 5. —This experiment, though somewhat more clearly defined
than the last, still exhibits the characteristic feature of the design in the
diagram being transferred as diffused and radiating light, noticeable in our
long-distance experiments. At a shorter distance (judging from Experi
ments 1, 2, 3, 14, 15, and 16) the form of the diagram presented to the percipient
is more defined. These diffused and radiating effects of my long-distance
transfers would appear to suggest a loss of force in travelling ; that is, that
the initial impulse given to the vibratory current by the brain of the agent
becomes spent in its course, and only reaches the brain of the percipient as
diffused or radiating light, and sometimes in the form of "dashes" or
"flashes" of light. Still, these luminous appearances are very far removed
from flashing lights before the eyes which affect many persons. There is an
unmistakeable resemblance to the form of the design, persistent during each
experiment, and which ceases when the agent ceases to operate.
"January 28th, 1891. 10.30 till about 11. Plumstead to Pembroke.
Object : Square cardboard, made pure white with whitening, the letters
CAT in black in centre of board. Two bull's-eye lanterns only (no gas,
no lamp) placed side by side on end of dining-table nearest the diagram—
about four or five feet from. Had difficulty in keeping the letters from
running into each other, though not so great as usual. Cast after-images on
walls and ceiling ; blinked eyes rapidly ; broke off several times to look at
clock. After-images of black letters intensely luminous, while the white of
the board appeared a very dark blue. Written before receiving Miss G.'s
report. —Witness (Signed) Emma Kirk. January 30th." 1
Miss G.'s report :— "29/1/91. Result of experiment last night scarcely
more satisfactory than on Saturday. [Experiment No. 4.] Saw light
which, at times, seemed as if concentrating into brighter centre, but nothing
sufficiently defined to describe."
Miss G. adds : ' ' This report has been returned with following questions. "
(1) " Was the light you saw continuous the whole time of experiment, or
was it seen at intervals only ? " Answer : "Continuous, but slightly varying
in clearness." (2) " Were there any shiftings of the light in various
directions?" Answer: "Not decided shiftings, but sometimes waverings."
(3) " What shape was the light, in the middle of which the brighter light
seemed to concentrate ? Was it oval, oblong, square, or diffused, or what 1 "
Answer : "Diffused—am glad you suggested that word, it explains it better
than any other, and I may not have thought of it at this moment."
1 Miss G.'s reports were not sent immediately after being written by her.
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 121
Remarks from notebook:t—"In this experiment, the letters CAT were
transferred as they appeared to my eyes—blurred—while the white square
board became diffused light. The latter was continuous (though the centre
light was fainter at intervals) which, from my experience, leads mo to
suppose that the diffused light was the after-image of the percipient's gown
vision, because, as I have noted, I broke off several times to look at the
clock. The after-images experienced by myself were, apparently, not
observed."
Experiment 6.—"January 31st, 1891. 10.30 till 11. Plumstead to
Pembroke. Object : White disc with dark blue spot in centre of square
cardboard, with black paper from edge of disc to edge of board, similar to
diagram used in Experiment 3. Diagram placed in bay window between two
white curtains. Two bull's-eye lanterns only (no gas, no lamp) close to disc
on small table in bay. Sat on couch about five feet from diagram most of
the time. After about twenty minutes removed one lantern to end of dining-
table, and placed it on a pile of books. Usual process of blinking eyelids
rapidly to keep the bright disc from becoming blurred. Cast after-images
on walls and ceiling. Occasionally slowly closed and opened eyes to produce
effect of dissolving views. Was not quite up to mark for experiment,
being considerably depressed. Expected result—possibly faint radiations or
momentary glimpses of imperfect discs. Written before receiving Miss G.'s
report. —Witness (Signed) Emma Kirk."
Miss G.'s report:—"1/2/91. Last night the transfer experiment was
unlike any made lately ; the reflection was much smaller, and had rays of
light which, at times were very bright, as though a strong light were casting
them through a small orifice ; the reflection seemed to move toward the right.
I think it lasted about twenty minutes."
Experiment 7.—" February 18th, 1891. 10.30 till 11. Plumstead to Pem
broke. Object : The word COD in dark blue within a square border (or
frame) of dark blue, on a white ground, on a square cardboard. Two bull's-eye
lanterns. Blinked eyes as usual to maintain as steady a gaze as possible. After
a time the letters became blurred, frequently rendering them as a fiery cloud.
The after-images of letters and borders within the square very luminous ;
the white background faintly luminous, of a bluish shade. Sat farther away
than usual—about fourteen feet. This distance was adopted to enable mo to
focus the whole word, as I had previously found that at a nearer distance of
five or six feet the middle letter, O, was the most prominent of the three
letters, and almost eclipsed the C and D when the after-image was cast on
wall or ceiling. The greater distance rectified this to some extent, the
word becoming, so to speak, more compact. Each time I found my eyes
shifting, and thus causing the after impression (luminous) to run into the
letters, I either blinked my eyelids rapidly to regain the focus, or closed
them to rest the eyes, or threw the after-image on wall and ceiling for the
same purpose. Written before receiving Miss G.'s report. —Witness
(Signed) Emma Kirk."
Miss G.'s report :—" 19/2/91. Last night, from 10.40, experiment almost,
if not quite, a failure. Saw only momentary flashes of light ; they returned
1 22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
several times during about fifteen minutes,i always to the right of me as I sat
watching."
Remark from notebook :— "Momentary flashes of light, which returned
several times during about fifteen minutes. These flashes were due, probably,
to the blinking action of my eyelids, and also the sudden return of my gaze
to the diagram from casting the after-images on wall or ceiling to rest the
eyes; this has tho effect (to me) of flashes of light."
Experiment 8.—" February 21st, 1891. 10.30 to 10.45. Plumstead to
Pembroke. Object : Letter A, dark blue paper, in centre of white disc in
black frame. Two bull's-eye lanterns close to diagram, also candle between
lanterns. Candle flame was shaded from my eyes by a book. This diagram
stood on a black painted desk, and the candle and lanterns on the open lid
to bring them on a level with the disc. Usual process of blinking eyelids,
casting after-images, &c. Written before receiving Miss G.'s report. —
Witness (Signed) Emma Kirk."
Miss G.'s report:—" Saturday night, 21st. Luminous appearance very
faint, with bright and constantly changing figures (if I may so call tho varia
tions in centre), sometimes being nearly upright lines, then unequal curves,
but shapes so indefinite I really cannot more accurately describe them."
Remarks from notebook:— " I may remark here that the flame of the candle
was very unsteady, and threw off a great deal of smoke, which frequently
interfered with the shape of the disc, giving it appearance of wacering. The
letter A was seen only as 'nearly upright lines.' There were 'changing
figures' or 'variations,' confined, be it observed, to tho centre of tho
diagram." It may be pointed out that the "unequal curves" (of the disc)
mentioned in the report were probably due to the unsteadiness and smoke
of the candle flame, as also to the shifting of my eyes, and rapid blinking of
eyelids, &c. There was a very near approach here to seeing the letter A
distinctly.
Experiment 9.—" February 25th, 1891. 10.30 to 10.50. Plumstead to
Pembroke. Object : Same diagram as last (February 21st.). This experiment
was conducted under many interruptions from noises in my house and next
house. . . . Attention greatly distracted—could not concentrate my
mind steadily on Miss G. . . . Should not be surprised if a total
failure. Written before receiving Miss G.'s report. —Witness (Signed)
Emma Kirk."
Miss G. wrote on the following morning : " Did you try last night ? If
so, it was a complete failure."
Experiment 10.—" February 28th, 1891. 10.30 till 10.50. Plumstead to
Pembroke. Object : Same as in experiment of Wednesday (25th). Inter
rupted by F from 10.30 to 10.45 ; only five minutes' steady silence.
Usual phenomena. Tried hard to ignore the noises caused by interruptions
but am afraid of a successful issue. Written before receiving Miss G.'s
report. —Witness (Signed) Emma Kirk."
This was, again, a total failure. Miss G. received no impression at all
either on February 25th or 28th.
i It must be mentioned that these, and other quotations of time are only estimated
by Miss G., as she could not refer to her watch in the dark.
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 123
Experiment 11.—"March 4th, 1891. 10.30 to 10.50. Plumstead to
Pembroke. Object : Same as diagram used from February 21st. Diagram
placed on black desk with two bull's-eye lanterns standing on end of dining-
table, about five feet from diagram. Same process of blinking eyes, casting
after-images on wall, curtains, &c. Slightly interrupted by movements in the
house. Written before receiving Miss G.'s report.—Witness (Signed)
Emma Kirk."
Muss G.'s report:—"5/3/91. Last night the luminous patch was only
faint, with small, bright dashes, not continuous, but appearing and disappear
ing in quick succession."
Remark from notebook :—" In regard to these rapidly appearing and dis
appearing 'bright dashes,' see remarks on experiment February 18th, 1891."
Experiment 12.—" March 7th, 1891. 11 to 11.50. Plumstead to Pem
broke. Object : Same diagram as used from February 21st. Diagram placed
on table in recess resting against books. Two bull's-eye lanterns. Sat on
couch facing disc, about nine feet from. No interruption, but occasionally
found my mind wandering to last interview with Mr. G. A. S. Succeeded,
however, in keeping Miss G. pretty well in mind, and several times managed
to locate myself in the room where she was sitting. Same process as usual
of blinking eyelids rapidly, casting after-images on walls and ceiling, occa
sionally throwing my eyes off and on diagram to produce flashes of light.
Should think something was seen, such as flashes and possibly momentary
glimpses of vanishing and reappearing of disc.—Written before receiving
Miss G.'s report.—tWitness (Signed) Emma Kirk."
Miss G.'s report:—"8/3/91. Last night very similar to Wednesday
[Experiment 12], but brighter ; still the changing was too rapid to allow me
to distinguish any particular form. "
Experiment 13.—March 11th, 1891. 10.50 to 11.20. This experiment
is not detailed, as Miss G. did not sit up to watch for the effect. Her report
is as follows :—
" 12/3/91. For last night no report worth recording. It was too cold
to sit until 11. [i.e., Miss G. went to bed.] Became very sleepy before that
time ; soon after the hour struck, however, I saw a pale, wavy light, but
fell asleep almost directly."
Experiment 14—"April 12th, 1891. 11 to 11.20 (about). Plumstead,
house to house [about 400 yards : Miss G. having returned from Pembroke].
Object : Square cardboard, all white ; design in centre. Thus :—
"1st part. Placed in bay window between curtains. Two bull's-eye
lanterns, closely focussed to diagram, combined lanterns making very bright
irregular oval light over design. Usual blinking of eyelids, casting after
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, iS9i.
images, &c. Used a book to intervene between diagram and eyes, occasion
ally, to cause break of continuity. In this experiment Miss G. was allowed to
see the diagram beforehand, in order to test how far previous knowledge of
it would influence her imagination. Lasted 10 minutes.
2nd part. Miss G. in ignorance of what I intended to transfer. Naked
candle light in bay window between open curtains ; no design : this to
try effect of blinking eyelids and other movements, &c. Written before
receiving Miss G.'s report. —Witness (Signed) Emma Kirk."
Miss G. 's report :— " Monday, April 13th, 1891. Wishing to kuow whether
seeing the diagram previously would make any difference to the clearness of
the transfer, at my request Mr. K. rather reluctantly showed me, yesterday
afternoon, the one he intended using last night.
" I did not see it any more distinctly. The five dark blue spots in centre
of white disc were not all visible at one time ; sometimes, I caught only two,
then three in various positions, as very bright spots on a pale ground, with
occasionally a brighter circle round them.
" This is the only time I have known what Mr. K. was going to try, and
feel convinced expectancy made no difference to the experiment.
"After about ten minutes a change came. I saw a small disc which
seemed composed of very bright fine circular lines, which quivered and
almost revolved."
The feature of the receding and again advancing into view of the spots
and circle is identical with the physical process which may be observed on
looking intently at an after-image. In this instance the after-image will
remain distinct for a few moments, then gradually fade (one or two spots
more quickly than the others), then all the spots will return and presently
blend into one luminous spot which, in its turn, will open out, separating
spot by spot into five spots ; and this process will continue until the after
image dies away.
In regard to the second part of the experiment, Miss G. confesses that
she was unable to describe its appearances and eccentricities of movement.
What occurred on my side was this :—Looking fixedly, at first, at the*
candle flame, it presented to me the appearance of diffused faint light
surrounding the flame ; after gazing as long as I could endure it, I lifted the
eyes about six inches over the flame and began a revolving movement which
caused circular (irregular) after-images of the flame ; then returning my gaze
to the flame, I blinked rapidly, which produced dancing and quivering
motions in abundance. These, with other eccentric movements I continued
to the end of the experiment, and, in a subsequent conversation with Miss
G. I elicited, indirectly, that these were similar to the eccentricities she
saw, but was unable to describe. Anything more opposite in character
than this change from a diagram to a candle flame could hardly be devised ;
yet each was seen accompanied by the features corresponding to the move
ments of my eyes.
Experiment 15. —The following experiment is divided into two parts, my
intention to do so not having been communicated to the percipient. Miss
G. was at Plumstead in her own house, about 400 yards from mine.
"28/4/91. 11 to 11.30. First part. Object ; The word SALT in black
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research, 125
letters in small white card (4jin. by 3in.) on square black ground (8in. by
8in.) on white square board (17in. by 12in.) Two bull's-eye lanterns about
four feet from. Tried to keep eyes steady, and succeeded to some extent,
as the after-images were clearer than usual ; but still the letters were blurred
occasionally.
Second part. Object: the letters KIRK, in dark blue on white disc
on black board, latter same size as in first part : letters same size. Lanterns
and other incidents same as first part.—Written before having Miss G.'s
report.—J. K. Witness.—E. Kirk."
Miss G.'s account :—" 28/4/91. x Last night had arranged for experiment
at 11, but began to think something had prevented one being made, as for
ten or twelve minutes nothing appeared, then saw a luminous patch, faint,
but with very bright dots and lines. " [Thus :—]
It will be seen from Miss G.'s report that, of the diagram used in the first
part nothing whatever was seen, although my attention was in no degree
less concentrated on it than in the second part. The diagram, however, was
not so brilliant under the light of the lanterns as that of the second part,
from the fact that the white surface on which the letters were placed was
only about 4|in. by 3in., and rested on a black ground ; while the letters
in the second part were surrounded by a large disc of white (whitening)
7^in. in diameter.
The diagram as seen by Miss G. in the second part, when the smallness
of the letters and the distance of percipient from agent (400 yards) are taken
into consideration, must be deemed as highly satisfactory—since it is the
first time I have attempted to transfer letters so small as these ; and the
result, to me, is surprising. I have no doubt that, but for the constant
blinking of the eyelids, and consequent unsteadiness, or wavering (or
" dancing " as Miss G. describes the phenomenon) the word itself would have
been distinctly read. As it is, the strokes depicted by Miss G. (the sketch
is her own) as having been " very bright," are of the same direction of slope
as in the original 2 while one spot (out of two) which was nothing more than
a flat-headed dark steel drawing pin, was also seen.
28 is a mistake for 29.
5 Mr. Kirk sent us this original, showing the holes where the diagram was pinned
to the disc and the word Kirk written in plain sloping capital letters ljin. high.
The illustration is not an accurate transcript of Miss G.'s sketch, but it gives an
idea of what she saw. —Ed.
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1801,
Experiment 16.—"4/5/91. 11 to 11.30. Miss G. at Plumstead (400yd,
off). Object ! 1st part. The letters q j, in bright blue, in centre of
white disc on black covered cardboard, , , , 2nd part. The letters
K
I R in bright blue on white disc ... on square board, faced with
K
cream-coloured paper with faded gold spots on it. 3rd part. White square
board with bright blue diagram in centre. [The diagram consists of a ring
with a thick little cross in the centre, in each of the angles formed by which
is a large round spot.] Two bull's-eye lanterns used for each part, and
placed within 12 inches of diagrams. Each experiment was very bril
liant to me, the blue giving a golden after-image something resembling
red-hot iron. Tried to keep gaze steady as possible, but blinking eyelids
and sudden shifting of eyes would occur. Practised a ruse on Miss G. with
the object of testing the influence of expectancy. Gave her to understand
she might look out for a diagram which I showed her beforehand, and which
she closely examined under the light of a lantern in my dining-room, the gas
being put out for the purpose. This just two hours before beginning the
experiment. Declined to tell her whether or not I should divide the experi
ment into parts. I made it impossible for her to see the three diagrams
used, as I designed them after she left my house. Written before receiving
Miss G.'s report.—Witness (Signed) Emma Kirk."
Miss G.'s report :—"5/5/91. Last evening Mr. K. showed me a design,
saying, 'Look well at this, I want again to test the effect of expectancy.'
Very soon after eleven I saw a small disc with brighter lines or dashes flash
ing within it, but, although I tried to trace a resemblance to what he
had shown me, quite failed and was equally disappointed ; after a few
minutes it changed, the disc vanished, bright lines, taking no definite shape,
appeared on a faint background, still quite unlike the design I was wishing
to see. Lastly came very bright spots [Miss G. drew three spots] in a pale
luminosity ; the whole time was from about 11 till about 11.30." [Illustrations
are given with the remark :—] "All were more or less darting or dancing."
Joseph Kirk,
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING" TRANSLATED.
A French translation of parts of Phantasms of the Living has
appeared under the title of Les Hallucinations Tdlepathiques, par MM.
Gurney, Myers, and Podmore. Traduit et Abrigides ' Phantasms of the
Living ' par L. Marillier, Maitre de Confirences a VEcole des Hautes
Etudes, avec une preface de M. Charles Richet. The translation, which
is much abridged, forms a volume of xiii., 395 pages octavo, and is
included in the Bibliotheque de Philosophie Contemporaine, published
by Alcan, 108, Boulevard Saint Germain, Paris. The price is 7fr. 50c.
The inclusion of this translation in so well-known a series as that of
the Philosophie Contemporaine is likely, we hope, to secure attention
July, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 127
for it in many quarters whioh the original work has not yet reached.
We may add that M- Marilliar is thoroughly familiar with the English
language, and that the translation, which has been revised by Mr.
Podmore, is very accurate.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
{Continued from the May Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
will be gratefully received.
B L 111. Double. Collective. 2nd hand.—Mrs. Du Gue hears from
a lady friend that she and her daughter once saw the double of a lady whom
they were visiting. The double closely followed its original, and exactly
imitated its actions. No dates given. Related September, 1889.
B L 112. A« Ps Dream. —Mrs. Brown dreams that her brother-in-
law and her sister (Mr. and Mrs. Wheeler) have come to Australia. They
both seem very sad. She writes account of dream, and sends it to her sister,
who is in England ; she also makes a note in a birthday-book. About the
time of the dream Mr. and Mrs. Wheeler had just decided to leave England
and settle in Australia, and they were very sad at the prospect. Mrs. Brown
had no reason whatever to expect that they would come. Mrs. Wheeler
confirms. Mr. A. W. Dobbie has also verified entry in birthday-book.
Date of dream, February 24th, 1889 ; recorded September 8th, 1890.
B L 113. Ad Ps Dream. 2nd hand.—Miss S. A. M. narrates that
Mr. A. B., her uncle (deceased), dreamt of an old and attached farm-servant
walking towards an old shed. At its entrance he turned and waved his
hand beckoningly to dreamer. The dream was told in the morning. The
old man was afterwards found to have hung himself in that shed on that
night. Date of dream, autumn of 1857 ; narrated by Miss S. A. M. in 1890.
B L 114. An Pn Auditory.—Professor Oliver J. Lodge records what he
thinks may be "a very minute thought-transference experience—but not
beyond chance. " Walking to college, he heard his name dimly called ; he
stopped and looked back, to see 20 yards off a friend walking fast and try
ing to overtake him. When this friend came up Professor Lodge remarked
that he had heard him call, but the pursuer denied calling, saying that he
thought he could overtake him without. Professor Lodge replied, "Then
it was thought-transference ! " But he adds that " it may conceivably have
been some stray noise interpreted in that way."
B L 115. Ae Pn Thought-transference. —Mrs. Brockbank informs us
that in 1850 she and an aunt slept at the house of some friends. On retir
ing to rest an unaccountable feeling possessed her mind, associated with the
word "gunpowder." She told her aunt, but that lady only ridiculed the
idea. Next morning their host informed them that he had been extremely
uneasy overnight, for he suddenly remembered that his young grandson had
put away some powder in a drawer in their room. He was anxious to come
and tell them, but his wife restrained him. Recorded October, 1890.
B L 116. Ae Pn Impression. 2nd hand, as good as 1st.—Mrs. X.
informs us that in 1857 she observed one of her pupils, a girl of 10 or 11,
weeping bitterly. The child explained that she was sure that there was
something the matter with her father, though she had heard from him
two or three days before. Three days after this it was known that the
father, pressed financially, had left the country, no one knew whither, and
it was probable that his departure took place very shortly before the
daughter's distress showed itself. She never saw him again. Recorded 1890.
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [July, 1891.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last list ("Journal" for March).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Archives du Magnetisme Animal. Publiees par M. le Baron
D'Henin de Cuvillers. (8 vols. ) Paris, 1820-3
Berillon (Dr. Edgar), Les indications formelles de la Suggestion
Hypnotique, en Psychiatrie et en Neuropathologie Paris, 1891
Cagliostro, Memoires Authentiques pour servir a l'Histoire du
Comte de. 2nd Edition 1785
Cagliostro Demasque' a Varsovie. Par un Temoin oculaire 1786
Chevreul (E.), De la Baguette Divinatoire Paris, 1854
D'Henin de Cuvillers (M. le Baron), Le Magnetisme Eclair^
ou Introduction aux Archives du Magnetisme Animal, Paris, 1820
Pitres (Professor A.), Lecons cliniques sur 1'Hysterie et
l'Hypnotisme. (2 Vols.) Paris, 1891
Thouret, Extrait de la Correspondance de la Societe Royale de
M£decine relativement au Magnetisme Animal Paris, 1785
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Carus (Dr. Paul), The Soul of Man. An Investigation of the
Facts of Physiological and Experimental Psychology, Chicago, 1891
Edmunds (J. W., and George T. Dexter, M.D.), Spiritualism,
Vol. I., 10th Edition New York, 1854
Vol. II. 4th Edition New York, 1855
Fraser (Colonel A. T.), Darkness and Light in the Land of Egypt ;
An Indication to Antiquity of Invisible Sources of Energy in
the Physical Universe ....London, 1891*
Essays from the Unseen. Delivered through the mouth of
W. L., A Sensitive, and recorded by A.T.T.P London, 1885
Ghostly Visitors. A series of Authentic Narratives by "Spectre-
stricken," with an introduction by " M.A. (Oxon.)" London, 1882
Houghton (Miss), Chronicles of Spirit Photography London, 1882
" M.A. (Oxon.)," Spiritualism at the Church Congress ...London, 1881
Oliphant (Laurence), Memoir of the Life of. By Margaret O. W.
Oliphant. 2 Vols London, 1891
Pallister (John), Memoir of Mrs. Jane Pallister Hull, 1834t
Priestley (Joseph, LL.D., F.R.S.), Original Letters by the Rev.
John Wesley Birmingham, 1791t
Wallace (Alfred Russel), D.C.L., LL.D., Are there Objective
Apparitions ? (The Arena, Vol. III., p. 129.) What are
Phantasms, and why do they appear ? (The Arena, Vol. III.,
p. 257) Boston, U.S.A., 1891
Hallucinations Telepathiques (Les), par MM. Gurney, Myers et
Podmore. Traduit et Abrege' des "Phantasms of the Living "
par L. Marillier Paris, 1891
Kant (Immanuel), Die Macht des Gemuths durch den blossen
Vorsatz seiner krankhaften Gefiihle Meister zu sein. Edited
by Dr. C. W. Hiifeland (13th edition) Leipzig, 1864];
* Presented by the Author.
t Presented by Mrs. Sidgwick, J Presented by Dr. C. L. Tuckey,
No. LXXXIII.-VOL. V. Octobeh, 18
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
New Members and Associates 129
Report of Council Meeting *.' " .'* 130
Professor Lodge's Address at Cardiff . . . . .. ".131
Cases received by the Literary Committee 134
Correspondence: "Negative Hallucinations" 144
A Society for Psychical Research in Sweden 144
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBER.
Dr. Alfred Backman, Kalmar, Sweden.
MEMBERS.
Allan, Thomas S., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S., Ed., Salford House, Tonbridge,
Kent.
Hutchison, Rev. R. P., M.A., Martyr Worthy Rectory, Winchester.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
Hayes, Joseph W., 1, George's-street, Enniscorthy.
ASSOCIATES.
Alexander, S., M.A., Lincoln College, Oxford.
Boorne, Herbert H., Sydenham House, Reading.
Briggs, Mrs., Rawdon Hall, near Leeds.
Bulmer, Mrs., Field House, Sleights, R.S.O., York.
Cox, Mrs., 9, Bessborough-street, South Belgravia, S.W.
Dixon, Hugh N, M.A., F.L.S., Wickham House, East Park Parade,
Northampton.
Finch, Heneage Wynne, Jun., The Manor House, Stokesley.
Fisher, Rev. J. Hartman, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas.
Garbett, Edward H., Barcombe House, Hull.
Inglis, Rev. D., Douglas, Isle of Man.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 5, South Bank-terrace, Surbiton.
Nutter, Mrs., Fairseat, Wrotham, Kent.
Oakeley, Miss H. D., 97, Warwick-road, Earl's Court, S.W.
Robinson, Dr. William Newman, Kadina, South Australia.
Russell, Mrs. Rosetta, Golden Mead, Chislehurst.
Vian-Williams, Rev, H., 3, Waterloo-place. North Shields.
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oot., 1891.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMEBICAN BRANCH.
Chanler, Mrs. Winthbop, c/o Messrs. Morris and Steele, 16, Exchange-
place, New York, U.S.A.
Leonard, Thomas, 628, 22nd-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Lee, Mrs. Mary Holland, Shrewsbury, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Haverhill Public Library, Haverhill, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, The Enoch Pratt Pree Library of Baltimore City, Balti
more, U.S.A.
Librarian, Theological Seminary Library, Rochester, New York,U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Lincoln, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Littlefield, John, c/o Messrs. S. S. White and Co., 12th and Chest
nut streets, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Perkins, Franklin R., 294, Linwood-avenue, Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
Perkins, Mrs. A. T., 112, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Rollings, Rev. Henry, Manitowaning, Ontario, Canada,
Totten, Mrs. Enoch, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on October 2nd ; the Pre
sident in the chair. There were also present : the Rev. A. T. Fryer,
Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. T. Barkworth, W. Crookes, W. Leaf,
F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and H. E. Wingfield.
The Minutes of last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
On the Proposition of Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Dr. Alfred Backman,
of Kalmar, Sweden, was elected a Corresponding Member of the
Society for the current year.
On the Proposition of Professor Barrett, Mr. J. W. Hayes, of
Enniscorthy, was elected an Honorary Associate for the current year.
Two new Members and sixteen new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of thirteen new
Associates of the American Branch, including the Librarians of five
Public Libraries in their official capacity, was recorded.
It was agreed that General Meetings of the Society should be held
at the Westminster Town Hall, on Friday, October 30th, at 4 p.m.,
and on Friday, December 4th, at 8.30 p.m. Also that the Annual
Business Meeting of the Members of the Society should be held at 3
o'clock,, on Friday, the 29th of January next, at the Westminster
Town Hall, to be followed by a General Meeting, at 4 o'clock.
Various other matters of business having been attended to, it was
agreed that the next Meeting of the Council should be at Westminster
Town Hall, on Friday, October 30th, at 3 p.m., previous to the General
Meeting on that day.
Oot„ 1891,] Journal of Society for Psychical Research 131
PROFESSOR O. J. LODGE'S ADDRESS AS PRESIDENT OF
THE PHYSICAL SECTION OF THE BRITISH ASSOCIA
TION AT CARDIFF.
It is an epoch worth noting in the history of Psychical Research
when it for the first time finds a place in an address by a President of
a section of the British Association,—and this has occurred since the
issue of the last number of our Journal. Professor Lodge brought it
forward in his address as President of Section A at Cardiff in August
last, and claimed for it a right to consideration by physicists.
We cannot here reproduce the whole address—nor even that portion
of it which refers to our subjects. For a full report we must refer our
readers to the Report of the British Association meeting at Cardiff
when that is published. But we may give some idea of what was said.
After discussing various matters belonging to orthodox physics,
Professor Lodge proceeds to take a " wider range " and " to speak of
a topic which is as yet beyond the pale of scientific orthodoxy." He
first argues against the attitude of mind of those who would hinder
free inquiry, or who hesitate to avow an interest in unorthodox
subjects, concluding that :—
Caution and slow progress are extremely necessary ; fear of avowing
interest or of examining into unorthodox facts is, I venture to say, not in
accordance with the highest traditions of the scientific attitude.
He proceeds to "try to state what this field is, the exploration of
which is regarded as so dangerous."
I might call it the borderland of physics and psychology. I might call
it the connection between life and energy ; or the connection between mhid
and matter. It is an intermediate region, bounded on the north by psycho
logy, on the south by physics, on the east by physiology, and on the west by
pathology and medicine. An occasional psychologist has groped down into
it and become a metaphysician. An occasional physicist has wandered up
into it and lost his base, to the horror of his quondam brethren. Biologists
mostly look at it askance, or deny its existence. A few medical practitioners,
after long maintenance of a similar attitude, have begun to annex a portion
of its western frontier. The whole region seems to be inhabited mainly by
savages, many of them, so far as we can judge from a distance, given to
gross superstition. It may, for all I know, have been hastily traversed and
rudely surveyed by a few clear-eyed travellers ; but their legends concern
ing it are not very credible, certainly are not believed.
He goes on to explain why and how the subject should be
approached by physicists.
A vulnerable spot on our side seems to be the connection between life
and energy. The conservation of energy has been so long established as to
have become a commonplace, The relation of life to energy is not under
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., isoi.
stood. Life is not energy, and the death of an animal affects the amount of
energy no whit ; yet a live animal exerts control over energy which a dead
one cannot. Life is a guiding or directing principle, disturbing to the
physical world but not yet given a place in the scheme of physics. The
transfer of energy is accounted for by the performance of work ; the guid
ance of energy needs no work, but demands force only. What is force ?
and how can living beings exert it in the way they do 1
By what means is force exerted, and what, definitely, is force or stress 1
I can hardly put the question here and now so as to be intelligible, except to
those who have approached and thought over the same difficulties ; but I
venture to say that there is here something not provided for in the orthodox
scheme of physics ; that modern physics is not complete, and that a line of
possible advance lies in this direction.
I might go further. Given that force can be exerted by an act of will,
do we understand the mechanism by which this is done 1 And if there is a
gap in our knowledge between the conscious idea of a motion and the libera
tion of muscular energy needed to accomplish it, how do we know that a body
may not be moved without ordinary material contact by an act of will ? I
have no evidence that such a thing is possible. I have tried once or twice
to observe its asserted occurrence, and failed to get anything that satisfied
me. Others may have been more fortunate. In any case, I hold that wo
require more knowledge before we can deny the possibility. If the conser
vation of energy were upset by the process, we should have grounds for
denying it ; but nothing that we know is upset by the discovery of a novel
mode of communicating energy, perhaps some more immediate action through
the ether. It is no use theorising ; it is unwise to decline to examine pheno
mena because we feel too sure of their impossibility. We ought to know the
universe very thoroughly and completely before we take up that attitude.
Again, it is familiar that a thought may be excited in the brain of another
person, transferred thither from our brain, by pulling a suitable trigger ; by
liberating energy in the form of sound, for instance, or by the mechanical
act of writing, or in other ways. A pre-arranged code called language, and
a material medium of communication, are the recognised methods. May
there not also be an immaterial (perhaps an ethereal) medium of communi
cation ? Is it possible that an idea can be transferred from one person to
another by a process such as we have not yet grown accustomed to, and know
practically nothing about 1 In this case I have evidence. I assert that I
have seen it done ; and am perfectly convinced of the fact. Many others
are satisfied of the truth of it too. Why must we speak of it with bated
breath, as of a thing of which we are ashamed 1 What right have we to be
ashamed of a truth ?
And after all, when we have grown accustomed to it, it will not seem
altogether strange. It is, perhaps, a natural consequence of the community
of life or family relationship running through all living beings. The trans
mission of life may be likened in some ways to the transmission of mag
netism, and all magnets are sympathetically connected, so that if suitably
Oct., 1s9L] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 133
suspended a vibration from one disturbs others, even though they be distant
ninety-two million miles.
It is sometimes objected that, granting thought-transference or telepathy
to be a fact, it belongs more especially to lower forms of life, and that as the
cerebral hemispheres develop wo become independent of it ; that what we
notice is the relic of a decaying faculty, not the germ of a new and fruitful
sense ; and that progress is not to be made by studying or attending to it.
It may be that it is an immature mode of communication, adapted to lower
stages of consciousness than ours, but how much can we not learn by study
ing immature stages 1 As well might the objection be urged against a study
of embryology. It may, on the other hand, as W. F. Barrett has suggested,
be an indication of a higher mode of communication, which shall survive our
temporary connection with ordinary matter.
I have sjioken of the apparently direct action of mind on mind, and of a
possible action of mind on matter. But the whole region is unexplored
territory, and it is conceivable that matter may react on mind in a way we
can at present only dimly imagine. In fact, the barrier between the two
may gradually melt away, as so many other barriers have done, and wo may
end in a wider perception of the unity of nature, such as philosophers have
already dreamt of.
I care not what the end may be. I do caro that the inquiry shall bo
conducted by us, and that we shall be free from the disgrace of jogging along
accustomed roads, leaving to isolated labourers the work, the ridicule, and
the gratification of unfolding a new region to unwilling eyes.
It may be held that such investigations are not physical and do not concern
us. We cannot tell without trying ; and as the results are physical, or at
least have a physical side, it seems reasonable to assume that the process by
which they are produced is a proper subject for physical inquiry. I believe
that there is something in this region which does concern us as physicists.
It may concern other sciences too. It must indeed concern biology ; but
with that I have nothing to do. Biologists have their region, we have ours,
and there is no need for us to hang back from an investigation because they
do. Our own science, of Physics or Natural Philosophy in its widest sense,
is the King of the Sciences, and it is for us to lead, not to follow.
Professor Lodge then, after urging confidence in the ultimate Intelli
gibility of the universe and pointing out that at first all things look
mysterious, says :—
If I were asked (as I am not) to suggest any practical proposal for imme
diate action in the direction indicated, I should not urge anything at all
revolutionary. I do not think that the time is ripe for the Royal Society,
for instance, to move in the matter ; the early stages of such an investiga
tion, in which the human element is so obtrusive and perturbing, may very
properly be left to a society devoted to that special end. ... I do,
however, think that whenever in the view of the leaders of that society the
time may have come to put the scientific world in official possession of their
more securely ascertained facts—for instance, by presenting a report to this
or some other section—they ought not to ask in vain for some recognition
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1891.
of the work accomplished by them. It seems to mo desirable that the work
in which they have been so long engaged should be established on a more
permanent basis, such a basis as scientific recognition would be likely to
bestow, so that the existence of the society may not be imperilled by the
mortality of individuals.
Returning to the work of his section Professor Lodge concludes
by saying that "occasionally a wide outlook is wholesome,"
. . . yet it is safest speedily to return to our base and continue the
slow and laborious march with which we are familiar and which experience
has justified. It is because I imagine that such systematic advance is now
beginning to be possible in a fresh and unexpected direction that I have
attempted to direct your attention to a subject which, if my prognostications
are correct, may turn out to be one of special and peculiar interest to
humanity.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 884. Experimental apparition.
For the following account of an attempt to produce an apparition
of himself we are indebted to Dr. A. S. Wiltse, Honorary Associate of
the American Branch of the S.P.R. The result if more than a coinci
dence—and it is difficult to believe that it was not—was very curious:—
March Wtk, 1891.
Some weeks ago several persons were passing the evening at my house,
and two children, a little girl of eight years and a boy of six years, whose
mother is stopping with us, had been put to bed in an adjoining room, the
door between the rooms being closed. The company were engaged in games
that did not interest me, and I took a seat some five feet from the bedroom
door and began trying to make the boy see my form in the room at his bed
side, he being on the front side of the bed. I knew the children were awake,
as I could hear them laughing. After some ten or fifteen minutes, the boy
suddenly screamed as if frightened, and, hurrying in there, I found the little
fellow buried up in tho bedclothes and badly frightened, but he seemed
ashamed of his fright and would not tell me what was the matter.
I kept the matter of my having tried an experiment a thorough secret,
and after some two weeks it came out through the little girl that Charlie
thought he saw a "great big tiger standing by his bed looking at him, and he
could see Uncle Hime (myself) in the tiger's eyes." What was the tiger? I
had not thought of any form but my own. The child lives in Cleveland,
Ohio, and has seen the collections in Zoological Gardens, but has not been
taught the different colours. I have just now shown him the plates in
Wood's Natural History, and he pointed out a lion as the animal he saw,
but as the plates are not coloured, they are littlo good for the purpose ; but
as I began at tho back of the book and took through all sorts first, and the
lion was the first and only animal designated by him as the one he had seen
Oct., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 135
in the room, I conclude he was nearly enough to the classification for our
purpose. No one but myself knew of my experiment until the children had
told their story. A. S. Wiltsb.
Dr. Wiltse writes later :—
Skiddy, Morris Co., Kansas, March 29th, 1891.
I tried one more experiment of the same kind with the little boy but
failed, but I was conscious of wavering in mind during the whole course of
the experiment, and besides this there were other unfavourable conditions.
The child's mother was absent for the evening and the children with my own
boy (aged fifteen) were making Rome howl in the way of untrammelled fun.
* * yt * *
I enclose a statement by my son and signed also by Mrs. Wiltse as
evidence in the matter of the tiger case, and will ask you to write to the
little girl and her mother, whose address I send you. I do this not from any
desire on my part to shirk duty, or to tax you with work I might do myself,
but think it better upon general principles that in these matters, whether of
my own experiments or those of others, the evidence should be given to
you as directly as possible, and with as little manipulating by the experimenter
as may be, as it is very natural for even men of science to make their own
successes look as large as possible, and their failures as small as possible. It
requires self-denial to forego such desire.
Mrs. Wiltse and Dr. Wiltse's son write as follows :—
Skiddy, Kansas, March 28th, 1891.
I was present when Josie Skene told papa what her brother Charlie was
scared about.
She said that Charlie throwed the cover over his head and told her that
he saw a tiger, and Uncle Hime, as he called papa, was in the tiger's eyes.
Jason Wiltse.
I certify that the above statement is substantially correct, as I also heard
the little girl relate it. Mrs. Haidee Wiltse.
Mrs. Charles Skene, the mother of the little boy, writes :—
153, Platt-street [Cleveland, Ohio], April 9th, 1891.
Your letter dated the 6th came to hand to-day. I was on a visit to the
Dr. and his family, and one evening he said he would try an experiment on
my little boy ; it was about seven o'clock and they had just been put to bed.
The Dr. wanted to make him see him by his bedside, and him in the other
room, and he did, he saw him in the form of a tiger and he also had tigers
in his eyes. He commenced to shout, and said he was frightened, but did
not say any more, he was so frightened. This is my daughter's statement as
far as she can recollect.
If there are any more questions you would like me to answer, I will
gladly do so. I was not at home the night this happened.
Mrs. Chas. Skene.
Later she adds :—
153, Platt-stroet, April 27th, 1891,
Your letter of the 17th came to hand; I do not know the date, but it
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1891.
was about the middle of February on a Wednesday evening. My little boy
is six years old ; he remembers it well and often talks of it.
The following are questions sent by Mr. Hodgson with answers
from Mrs. Skene, received about May 30th, 1891 :—
Q. : Did the boy see the figure of Dr. Wiltse in the tiger's eyes ?
A. : No.
Q. : Did he see only the tiger 1 A. : Yes.
Q. : Did the boy know that Dr. Wiltse was trying an experiment upon
him ? A. : No.
L. 885. Ad P" Impulse.
The following account was sent to Mr. Myers by Lady De Vesci in
May, 1891. Whether the impulse to telegraph was really connected
with the dying lady's condition we cannot, of course, say, but the
coincidence was certainly remarkable :—
May 24th, 1891.
Madame X. was a very remarkable woman, and I was most deeply
attached to her. She had had great troubles and difficulties in her life, an
unhappy marriage, and two sons who were entirely educated by her.
When they came to London as clerks in the City she followed them to make
a home for them there ; but as one was soon sent out to work at Hong-Kong
and the other to a business at Bahia, she sought employment for herself in
London and came to us as governess in 1864. In 1869 she became ill, and
spent the winter alone at Bournemouth. She and I wrote constantly to
each other, and when she moved to Norwood for the summer of 1870 my
eldest brother and I went often to spend long afternoons with her. He died
that summer, and although she had not left her sofa for months she came
at once to see me when she heard of our great sorrow ; the doctor said he
had never seen such an indomitable spirit as she showed through her illness,
and when in the spring of 1871 Sir J. Burrows told her that she had not
many months to live she resolved to go out to Hong-Kong and see her
eldest son once more. It was not thought that she would survive the
voyage. Our deep love for each other was unchangeable, and this final fare
well was a great grief to us both. She reached Hong-Kong and spent the
last 18 months of her life with her son there. I heard from her by every
mail.
In 1872 I married, and shortly afterwards we were quartered at the
Curragh. It was from there that I sent the telegram which she received less
than 24 hours before her death. Until 2 years ago I had in my possession a
few faint lines written by her on blue foreign paper, saying she had received
my message and that her "fever dreams " were filled with memories of our
happy days together at Cannes and elsewhere. Her son is now dead. He
came to see me in '76 and told me that my telegram had made his mother
very happy.
The impulse that made me communicate with her on that particular day
was a very strong one. It came to me suddenly and not in consequence of any
Oct., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 137
increased anxiety from news received. On the contrary, the accounts were
quite satisfactory. I had heard from her by the mail a few days before. I
asked my husband to go with me to the Curragh Post-office as I wished to find
out the cost of a telegram to China, and he accompanied me to the Post-
office and we were told it would cost £5 to send 12 words or so, I think. I
at once wrote and sent the message containing a few words of loving greet
ing. These words she received and acknowledged only a few hours before
her death. Evelyn de Vesci.
Lord de Vesci adds :—
I certify that the account given by Lady de Vesci is correct and accurate.
De Vesci.
June 2nd, 1891.
L. 886. AdPn Impulse.
The following may also be a telepathic incident, the impulse to
play the particular tune being due to communication from the dying
friend's mind. The account was sent to Mr. Myers by Mrs. Moul,
of 2, Prince's-mansions, Victoria-street, S.W. (whom he knows), in
November, 1889.
After describing how the first time she heard Schubert's JHomens
Musicals No. 2, in 1876, it was associated with a sad and tragic
incident, Mrs. Moul continues :—
On my return to England some months after, I went to stay with a very
dear friend, Mrs. Weatherby, at Cookham. We were alone, and I was in the
habit of playing to her always in the twilight, till the dressing bell rang. One
evening I played this weird lament of Schubert's, which had so many sad
memories for me. When it was ended, my friend, contrary to her usual
habit, made no remark for some time ; when she did speak, she did not refer
to what I had played or ask what it was, but said, "I want you to make
me a promise." Of course I gave it, and she said, " Whenever I feel I am
dying, if I am conscious, I shall send for you and you must play that to me ;
will you come ? " I was impressed by the music affecting her in this way,
and I then told her of the interest it held for me which I had not before
spoken of, as my relatives and Mr. and Mrs. H. were all unknown to her.
After this she would ask me, if we were alone, to play " My death song."
Once she asked this in her husband's presence, and seeing he was seriously
annoyed, I made light of the remark, but she told him she was quite serious,
and spoke of her wish to pass from life with these notes in her ears. In the
years 1887 and 1888 we had seen but little of each other. I had been
much out of England with the constant care of an invalid, and she had
passed much time in Scotland. Nor did we correspond often. She had,
and always had had, a repugnance to letter writing, and generally made a
secretary of her niece, who lived with her. I last saw her in the month of
May, 1888, when I was starting for Germany and Switzerland, and on my
return she was in Scotland. She wrote me at Christmas, and said, " Come
soon if you can to Cookham, I long for some music," but the return of my
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1891.
son in bad health from Burmah compelled me to go to the South, and I did not
return to London till the 1st of March, [1889]. The next day my husband said,
" I saw Nellie Weatherby in Piccadilly this morning, she looked so well."
He was driving, so had not spoken to her. From this I knew she was in
town, but had not her address, as they always took a furnished house from
March till May. On the 6th of March my brother and his wife were dining
with us. After dinner she asked me to play, and I began some waltzes and
lively music. Suddenly and unconsciously to myself I found myself playing
Schubert's Momens Musicals. When I had finished, my sister-in-law said,
' ' That is pretty but very sad. " " Yes, " I said, ' ' I can't think how I came to
play it, I very seldom do unless to Nellie Weatherby ; she is so fond of it."
"Have you seen her lately?" she said, "and how is she ? " I replied,
" Perfectly well, I hear, but I am very astonished at not having received her
address, as I hear she is in town." Two days after I heard of her death.
She died on the 6th March, at 8.20 in the evening, having been unconscious
to all around her for seven hours. I took no notice of the time at which I
was playing Schubert on the evening of the 6th, but we dined at 7, and it
was our usual way to be in the drawing-room a little beforo 8, and I know I
went to the piano on entering the room.
L. 887. A* Pt
The following letter appeared in the Religio-Philosophical Journal
for November 22nd, 1890 :—
Another Compact Fulfilled.
To THE Editor,—An article in the Journal, headed, "A Compact Ful
filled," reminds me of an incident in my own experience which occurred
several years since. I was invited by a lady whose acquaintance I had made
very singularly, being attracted to me through my writing for the Journal, to
visit her. I had never met her husband or family, nor was I at all acquainted
in Mendota, where they lived. After spending a few days with them and
partaking of their generous hospitality, the night before I was to leave for
home she asked me if I was willing she should invite in a few friends of hers,
and allow my influences to control me for anything they might have to
communicate. I readily agreed. That evening their handsome parlours were
filled with a goodly company ; some believers in the philosophy, others investi
gating, and still others who were entirely sceptical. The host, Mr. Johns, his
brother, and a friend of theirs, a professor of music, whose name has escaped
me, gave some excellent music upon the piano, violin, and bass viol, which had
a tendency to harmonise the company ; soon my controls took possession and
pointing out different ones in the room gave whatever they were able to give,
and all were asked whether they recognised the spirit giving the message or
being described. Several expressed themselves satisfied as to the identity of
the spirit communication. Finally, after the description of a very small old
lady, seemingly about eighty years of age, walking with a cane was given
to a Mr. Marsten—a prominent photographer there—he was asked the usual
question, whereupon he arose and said the description was a perfect one of
his mother who lived many miles from there ; for she was, he said, still in
Oct., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Mesearch. 139
the form, at least he supposed so, as when he heard from her only a few days
before she was in her usual health. The next morning on our way to the
depot to take the cars for home, passing his studio in company with Mrs. Johns,
we called in to bid Mr. and Mrs. Marsten good-bye, when to our surprise
Mrs. Marsten told us that the night before, while they were at the house of
Mrs. Johns, a telegram had come, telling of the sudden death of his mother.
No one being at home the telegram was not delivered until morning, and she
said Mr. Marsten was at that time packing his things to leave on the next
train to attend his mother's funeral. She also said Mr. Marsten's mother
was not a believer, although her son had had many talks with her on the
subject of spirit return, and once she had told him, if she went first, and
found it to be a truth, she would surely come back, and if permitted would
manifest her presence to him. Thus was another "compact fulfilled."
C. A. R.
Mr. Hodgson having learnt from Colonel Bundy, editor of the
Religio-Philosophical Journal, that the initials C. A. R. were those of
Mrs. J. R. Robinson—a person of good repute—wrote to her and
received the following reply :—
Chicago, January 6th, 1891.
In regard to the incident related in the R.-P. Journal under heading of
"Another Compact Fulfilled " I think it occurred some four or five years
since, as far as I can now remember. I was not at that time, nor have I ever
been, a public medium, but was in the habit of sitting for friends and friends'
friends. At that time I was hearing what I termed "The Voices," and by
request of Colonel Bundy allowed them to be published. But after they had
been published awhile, I received so many letters, some of enquiry, but
more of requests, from those who seemed to think that by only asking I
could get messages from their friends, which I felt common politeness
obliged me to reply to, even when many of them (through thoughtlessness I
suppose) came without an enclosed stamp, I found the attempt to answer
became too burdensome, to say nothing of the expense ; and consequently
sent no more for publication, telling Colonel Bundy the reason. It was
through these letters that a Mrs. Belle Johns, of Mendota, wrote to me—a
perfect stranger. After corresponding and receiving several calls from her
when she would come into Chicago, she invited me to spend a week with her,
which I accepted, and found the family a very pleasant one—everything was
done for my comfort and pleasure while there. At the end of my visit, my
husband having come after me, and spending a day with the family, Mrs. J.
asked me if I would not consent to have her invite in a few friends the last
evening of my stay. As my health was not good, I had merely gone there
for the purpose of recuperating, and until then had not been asked to use
my medium powers, nor had I met anyone outside of their own family and
immediate relatives who lived on each side of them, thus all who were
there that night were perfect strangers to me. My mediumship had never
been tested in so large and promiscuous a company, and I assure you I had
grave doubts of my influences being able to use me on the occasion ; but I
felt so grateful to them (almost strangers as they were) for giving me such a
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1891.
rest that I was unwilling to refuse the request. It was under these circum
stances that the incident related in the Journal occurred. There were very
many tests given to others of the company, but this was more impressed
upon my mind, on account of the annoyance I felt at my influences describ
ing so perfectly a person whom the son said was in the form, and then the
next morning learning that his mother had really passed on and was not as
he supposed in the form. Mr. Marsten and wife, I was told, not long after
that removed to California ; but what part I am unable to tell you, and as it is
nearly two years since I have seen or heard from Mrs. Johns (although the
last pleasant letter I had from her was duly answered) I cannot tell you any
thing about them, though I have no doubt they are still living in Mendota.
I do not remember Mr. Johns' first name, but a letter to Mrs. Belle Johns
would, if they are there, be sure to reach her. I suppose the reason of our
losing sight of each other is on account of our moving from our former
quarters, though had she consulted the city directory she could readily
have found us, as my husband is a prominent business man here, connected
as travelling passenger agent with the Southern Pacific Co.
I became so thoroughly disgusted with the class of mediums in this city
that I after a time ceased to sit for anyone, although I often still hear voices ;
but as I never hear them except when entirely alone, I readily understand
that for your purpose they would be of little, if any, use to you, as you
would only have my word for it that the voices came from those quite
unknown to me.
I could write a book on the many tests and experiences I have had and
given to others from those who have passed on, not one of whom I had ever
before heard from, for, strange to say, no one of my family or friends hero
have ever used my organism to send me a single message, and I have come
to the conclusion that this is design on the part of my spiritual guides, as I
think they were more intent on convincing my husband and myself (who
were exceedingly sceptical on the subject of the spirit's return) that this was
really so, rather than to convince others, and even now neither of us believe
any manifestation purporting to come from spirits which can be accounted
for in any other way.
Claka A. Robinsok.
Mrs. Johns writes as follows :—
January 23rd, 1891.
As near as I can remember the circumstance referred to in your letter
was this :—Mrs. Robinson made me a visit, and the evening before she and
her husband left for home, I invited in a few friends (a dozen or more). Mrs.
Robinson was controlled, giving several tests to others, the nature of which
I have now forgotten. Coming to Mr. Marsten, she described a very old
lady, quite small, walking with a cane, standing in front of him. I do not
think she gave any message, but he said it was a perfect description of his
mother, but that she was still living ; he having heard from her only a short
time before. The next morning I went with Mr. and Mrs. R. to the depot'
and stopped on our way at Mr. Marsten's photo gallery. We were surprised
when they informed us that Mr. Marsten's mother was dead. A telegram
announcing his mother's death had been brought to their house the night
Oot., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 141
before while they were at my home. There being no one there to receive it,
it was again brought that morning and delivered.
This is as near as I can remember, it having occurred so long ago, about
eight or nine years ago.
Mrs. Belle Johns.
P.S.—I recollect he said not long before that his mother, not being a
believer in Spiritualism, she promised him if it was true, and she died first,
if she could she would come back to him and try to make herself known.
I cannot give you Mr. Marsten's address. I heard some time ago that he
was in Maine. If possible I will try and find out his address and will send
it to you.—B. J.
L. 888. Ad Pn 'Visual. Unrecognised.
From Mr. H. Dean, 19, Nightingale-lane, Widmore, Bromley,
Kent. The case being a remote one it has not been possible to find
any corroboration of the coincidence, beyond the fact that the death
occurred on a Sunday (as stated in the first account), a date about
which it is obvious that memory can be relied on more than about any
other day in the week.
October 6th, 1889.
In regard of the light I saw in the year 1851 at the Manor House, Lee,
Kent ; the property of Lord Northbrook, but rented by Mrs. Dent, formerly
Mrs. Robert, while I was under-gardener at that time. It was to this effect.
It was May, C o'clock in the evening. I was anxious to get to church—our
parish church. I had got a bedroom, sitting ditto, commonly called a
bothy, at the back of a greenhouse in the flower-garden. I had an upright
iron stove in one corner of my bedroom, and had made it red hot, and as
I did not like to leave it so I had determined to see it cooled down so as I
would leave it safe. I had been to see twice, and the third time I looked
at it I pronounced it all right. I turned to come out of the bedroom
quickly, and on my bed I thought I saw a light like a candle, in the corner
of my right eye—a glimpse. I did not stop to look at it, but shut the
bedroom door, when I became trembling, and my hair stood up like hop-
poles. I said to myself, I must see what that was ; so I opened the door of
my bedroom, and to my astonishment I saw the room full of fire, and it
turned into a beautiful spinning wheel, going round at a tremendous rate.
What with fire and smoke it filled the room ; I thought the place would be
burnt down. It lasted a quarter of a minute, and then went out, and nothing
to be seen. I locked the room up and went to church, but I thought I
saw in the centre of the firework at one time a face- -I mean a human face,
but the more I looked at it the more I was puzzled. I do not think I was
four feet from it, and it made no noise. I had got at that time a stout
heart, I was not frightened at anything ; but when returning from church and
going into my bothy, I was very nervous. I had a good mind not to go there
any more, but the consequences would have been to give the situation up,
and you know people are so ready to call you cranky if you say anything, so
I went to bed and I had a nice night's rest, and told nobody about it. On the
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1891.
Sunday following I went as usual to Chislehurst, always onco a month, to
my parents, and in the course of our talking my mother said to me, "Your
Aunt Lizzy is dead." I then asked what time she died, and from what she
informed me it was about the same time as I saw the fire.
II. Dean.
In answer to questions, Mr. Dean states that he had never had any
other hallucinations than the one described, and that he did not know
that his aunt was ill at the time. She lived about five miles away,
but he never went to see her and was not in the habit of thinking of
her.
Mr. G. A. Smith, who had an interview with Mr. Dean on May
14th, 1891, writes:—
I called upon Mr. Humphrey Dean at Bromley to-day. He is a gardener.
He is of a thoughtful turn of mind, and evidently anxious to be accurate in
his statements. Ho described his experience to me just as he has written
it. It certainly seems to have made a deep impression upon him, and he
says that nothing like it ever occurred to him before or since. He did not
mention the matter to anyone, as he was afraid of being doubted or laughed
at ; it was not until his mother mentioned the aunt's death on the following
Sunday that ho described what he had seen. He had not been thinking of
his aunt more than usual, in fact he does not think she had occurred to his
mind for weeks ; he certainly did not, at the time, associate her with the
fiery appearance. It seemed to him that the appearance was probably a
"token" of something, and when he reflected upon it at the time he
remembered that there was something resembling a face or head in the
centro of the revolving wheel of fire—" something like a small image," Mr.
Dean said. Whilst the wheel was presenting itself to his gaze, Mr. Dean was
much impressed by the amount of brilliant fire and smoke apparently thrown
off by it ; he thought the room must catch fire. The fiery disc was about four
feet in diameter, and as it rapidly revolved its edge seemed turned away
from him as though deflected by a strong current of air blowing from him
towards it, the smoke also floating away from where he stood towards the
opposite wall. The whole thing lasted about as long as it would take him to
count 20, he thinks.
We find from the register at Somerset House that Eliza Dean
died on the 2nd January, 1853, at the age of 53. The almanack shows
that this date fell upon a Sunday. The burial took place on the 4th
of January—two days after the death—as recorded in the Chislehurst
parish church register, a certified extract from which has been sent
to us by Mr. Dean. Mr. Dean tells us, in a letter dated May 25th,
1891, that on thinking over the event, before seeing the register, he
concluded that "it must have occurred in 1852, and that it was in
the winter time, as it was so dark." In his first account, he gave May
as the month when it happened.
Oct., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 143
L. 889. Ad Pn Visual. Borderland.
Miss M. Benson sends us the following narrative from a lady
known to her, whom we will call Mrs. L. Mrs. L. is unwilling that
her name or that of the person whose apparition she saw should be
published :—
C. G. W. was a pupil of my husband's ; at the end of the term of pupil
age he remained with him as assistant, and after three or four years he
passed an examination very creditably and gained a good appointment in
India. He bade us good-bye and set sail from Southampton. In making
the passage of the Red Sea he went down in the Camatic, and appeared at
my bedside on the night of the occurrence. When asked to describe his
appearance at the time, I said he looked like a drowned person. When the
vessel in which he sailed returned to Southampton, one of the officers posted
to me a packet of lace which C. G. W. had bought for me at Malta. He
was prompted to this kind thought of me doubtless by the remembrance of
much kindness received from my husband and by my regret at the loss to the
latter of a really valuable assistant.
This account was written in 1889. We have ascertained that the
wreck, of the Camatic took place on September 13th, 1869.
Miss Benson obtained verbally from Mrs. L. further particulars
about the appearance, and gives the following account of it :—
Mrs. L. was ill—it was about a fortnight after the birth of a child—a
nurse was in the room asleep. She thinks she had not been sleeping, and is
sure she was not sleeping at the time. She saw the figure standing close at
the side of the bed. It was quite substantial, " not at all like a ghost," but
dressed in something light. It disappeared in a moment, and she called and
awoke the nurse at once, who asked her what it was like. She said, ' ' Like a
drowned man,"—though she had never seen a drowned person. She couldn't
tell me exactly what made her think he looked drowned, except the general
droop of the clothes, and the face was dead—she doesn't remember that it
looked wet. She was frightened at the time, but says her husband thought
more of it afterwards than she did. She didn't connect it with anything
happening to him, and was surprised when she heard he was drowned.
Unfortunately she doesn't know where the nurse is. Everyone in the
house heard about it before the news of the death came. I don't think she
is likely to exaggerate at all. She said she hadn't thought of it as a thing of
any general interest, and she rather distrusts her own accuracy, as it was so
long ago. One thing—which her daughter pointed out—in which there is a
want of coincidence is the dress. She said he was working at the pumps
until the ship went down, so that he could hardly have been dressed in any
thing white and flowing.
No further evidence seems to be obtainable.
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1891.
CORRESPONDENCE.
"NEGATIVE hallucinations.
To the Editor of the. Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir,—It is always instructive to trace the analogy between hypnotic
phenomena and the actions which take place during ordinary states of con
sciousness, and the following appears to me to be a case in point.
I was engaged in some amateur carpentering work, and in the course of
it I laid down the two foot rule I was using upon the carpenter's bench.
Shortly afterwards requiring to use it again I looked for it, but it was gone.
Surprised at its disappearance I distrusted my own memory and concluded I
must have deposited it elsewhere, and accordingly searched all round the room.
Not finding it I returned to the bench and this time instituted a most careful
search all over it, but to no effect. Thoroughly baffled I hunted about the
room again, and finally turning to the bench a third time, I at once saw the
rule lying in the most conspicuous place possible, spread open, and on the
top of everything else, plainly visible from every part of the room. Some
thing like this has happened once or twice to mo before in my life, but never
to the samo extent.
I do not know whether any physiological explanation could be afforded
for the invisibility of the foot rule. If it could, it would be of a kind equally
applicable to negative hallucinations in general. But whatever may be the
process involved, the real interest of the case seems to me to lie in the
rationale of it. Mental abstraction and indifference to sensory impressions
have always been considered to be dependent upon the concentration of the
attention on other matters, but the peculiarity of the case above named
is that it was just the reverse of this. Instead of my attention being absorbed
in other ways, it was entirely fixed on the effort to find the foot rule ; indeed,
the loss was of such an irritating kind, owing to the interruption of my work,
together with the knowledge that the instrument must be close at hand all
the time, that I felt a kind of exasperated earnestness in seeking for it.
The case may throw some light, I think, upon some cases in which articles
are stated to have been mysteriously removed and replaced, and these move
ments attributed to the agency of " spirits." It is well to exhaust natural
explanations before assuming supernatural ones. T. B.
A SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH IN SWEDEN.
We are glad to be able to announce that a Swedish Society for
Psychical Research (Svenska Samfundet for Psykisk Forskning),
founded by Dr. Von Bergen (a member of our Society) in 1890, is
now in operation, and includes about 150 members.
Dr. Von Bergen is President ; Dr. 0. G. Wetterstrand, of Stock
holm, well known for his success in therapeutic hypnotism, is Vice-
President ; and the members of Council are : Professor S. Jolin,
Professor O. Sandaled, Dr. Kallenberg, Dr. G. Klein, and Professor
Count G. von Rosen.
We shall look with much interest for the Proceedings of this young
Society, to which we beg to offer a hearty welcome.
No. LXXXIV—Vol. V. November, 1891.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates 145
Meeting of the Council 145
General Meeting 140
Cases Received by the Literary Committee 147
Correspondence : " Negative Hallucinations " 152
Spirit Photography . 153
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases 161
Notice 164
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Bibby, Charles Hesketh, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bridgeman.H.Meilor W.,M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P^Black Hall, Seven Oaks.
Crommelin, Miss Constance de la O, 36, Sussex-square, Brighton.
Tweedie, George R., F.C.S., 54, Hawley-square, Margate.
ASSOCIATES.
Eagle, Frederick, Newport, near Barnstaple.
Jebb, Miss S. G., Myn-yr-Afon, Ruabon.
Shaen, Rev. Richard, MA., West Cottage, Royston, Herts.
Townley, Miss F. M., 47, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
ASSOCIATES OP THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Clapp, Rev. T. E., Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
Cleaves, N. Porter, 3, Central Wharf, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Davis, Samuel G., 120, Highland-street, Roxbury, Mass., U.S.A.
Libbe, A. B., M.D., Haller Block, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
Smith, Mrs. Franklin W., Saratoga Springs, New York, U.S.A.
Tickell, J. A. Arscott, Narcoossee, Florida, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on October 30th, the President
in the chair. There were also present : Professor Barrett, Colonel
Hartley, Dr. A. T. Myers, Messrs. T. Barkworth, F. W. H. Myers,
and Sydney C. Scott.
Four new Members and four new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of six new
Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1891.
A vote of thanks was passed to the donors of several presents to
the Library.
Various other matters of business were attended to.
The next Meeting of the Council will be at 19, Buckingham-street,
W.C., at 4.30 p.m., on Friday, December 4th.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 48th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, October 30th, 1891, at 4 o'clock, the
President in the chair. It was more largely attended than any after
noon meeting yet held.
Me. Myehs read an account of his visit to Dr. Backman, at
Kalmar, in Sweden, and of some experiments in clairvoyance tried
while he was there, which will appear in the next number of the Pro
ceedings. Its main interest lay in the high opinion of Dr. Backman
as an investigator in Psychical Research, which personal acquaintance
had led him to form. In the course of his remarks he mentioned, what
Dr. Backman stated in his paper published in the last number of the
Proceedings, that his subjects were put into a very light stage of
hypnotic trance for these clairvoyant experiments, and that they
remembered afterwards their trance impressions, and could even
supplement what they had said.
In connexion with this, a question was asked by Mr. F. W. Hayes
as to how the sleep was induced.
Me. Myers replied that Dr. Backman sometimes used passes, some
times suggestion without passes. With an entirely new subject he
generally used passes.
Peofessoe Baeeett asked in what position letters which the
hypnotised subject attempted to read clairvoyantly were held, e.g.,
were they held against the forehead or the pit of the stomach 1
Mr. Myers replied that they were merely held in her hand. Dr.
Backman had tried different positions, but did not consider that the
position made any difference in the results.
Me. Leap then read a paper by Mes. H. Sidgwick on telepathic
clairvoyance, which was discussed mainly in relation to two special
oases in which the percipient saw in hallucination or vision the con
dition of the distant agent. These it is proposed to print in the next
number of the Proceedings.
Me. Myees afterwards read a paper, which it is also intended to
publish in the Proceedings, on movements of objects occurring under
circumstances when the movements could not apparently be accounted
Nov., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 147
for by known, physical laws. He quoted two accounts of such
occurrences. In one of them, describing how small pieces of wood flew
about in a carpenter's shop in a mysterious manner for about 5
weeks, it was mentioned that they would fall to the ground noise
lessly even after a somewhat rapid flight.
Mr. A. R. Wallace, commenting on this last circumstance, said
that he had noticed a similar noiselessness when furniture was moved
at seances, and remarked that as the carpenters did not appear to have
had experience of seances the coincidence between their experience and
his was remarkable, and tended to confirm the correctness of the
observation.
Another Gentleman, who did not wish to give his name, recounted
similar incidents.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 892. Ad Pn Visual and Auditory.
The following account of a very curious experience of Mr. Dickin
son, a photographer, of 43, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne, was
obtained for us by Mr. E. T. Nisbet, of Newcastle-on-Tyne, in February
last, but we have waited to print it until he had procured some further
evidence that appeared necessary. Mr. Dickinson's narrative has, in
the meanwhile, appeared in the Practical Photographer, and been copied
thence in various newspapers. We give it here in full, with such
additional evidence as we have been able to procure.
February 25th, 1891.
On Saturday, the 3rd of January this year, I arrived at my place of
business a few minutes before 8 a.m. The outer door is protected by an
iron gate, in which is a smaller lock-up gate, through which I passed into
the premises. Having opened the office and turned the gas on at meter,
and lit the gas-fire, I stood at the office counter for a few minutes waiting for
the lad who takes down the iron gate at the front door. Before the lad
came, however, a gentleman called to inquire if his photographs were finished ;
I asked him if he had the receipt (which usually accompanies any inquiry),
and ho replied that he had no receipt, but his photograph was taken on
(giving the date), and that the prints were promised to be sent to him before
this call. Having got the date and his name, I referred to my book and
found the order as he stated. I read out to him the name and address, to
which he replied, "That is right." In my book I found a date given on
which the negative was ready to be put into the printer's hands, and the date
being 17 days previous I had no hesitation in saying, "Well, if you call
later on you will get some," and I called his attention to the fact that
it was very early, and explained to him that the employees would not
be at work until nine o'clock, and if he could call after that time he would
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1891.
bo certain to get some of his photographs. He said, "I have been travelling
all night, and cannot call again." With that he turned abruptly, and went
out. Anxious to retain his good will, I shouted after him, "Can I post
what may be done 1 " but I got no answer. I turned once more to
the book, looked at the number, and on a slip of paper wrote, "No. 7,976,
Thompson, post." (This I wrote with pen and ink, and have the paper
yet.) At nine o'clock, when Miss S. (clerk and reception-room attendant)
came, I handed the slip of paper to her and asked her to have it attended
to, telling her that the man had called for them, and seemed much dis
appointed that he had not received them before. Miss S., with considerable
surprise, exclaimed : ' ' Why, an old man called about theso photographs
yesterday (Friday), and I told him they could not be ready this week owing
to the bad weather, and that we were nearly three weeks behind with our
work." I suggested that it was quite time Mr. Thompson's were ready,
and inquired who was printing the order. I was told that it was not in
print, and pointing to a pile of negatives Miss S. said : "Thompson's is
amongst that lot, and they have been waiting quite a fortnight." I asked to
be shown the negative, and about half an hour later Miss S. called me, say
ing, "This is Thompson's negative." I took it in my hands and looked at it
carefully, remarking, "Yes, that is it ; that is the chap who called this morn
ing." Miss S. again referred to the fact that she had told the man who had
called on the previous day that none were done, or could be done that week.
"Well," I said, "put this to one side and I will see to it myself on Monday,
and endeavour to hurry it forward." On the Monday (January 5th), I was
in one of the printing rooms, and, about 10.30 a.m., having one or two print
ing frames empty, I thought of Thompson's negative, and accordingly went
down to the office and asked Miss S. for it. "Oh yes," she replied,
"and here are a few more equally urgent, you may take them as
well." I said "That cannot be, as I have only two or three frames at
liberty" (she had about twenty negatives in her hand, holding them
out to me), "give me Thompson's first and let me get my mind at rest
about it." To which she answered : " His is amongst this lot, I will have
to pick it out." (Each negative was in a paper bag.) I offered to help her,
and she commenced at one end of the batch and I at the other, and before
we got halfway through I came across one which I knew was very urgent,
and turned away to look up the date of taking it when crash ! went
part of the negatives on the floor. This accident seemed so serious
that I was almost afraid to pick up the fallen negatives, but on doing so, one
by one, I was greatly relieved to find only one was broken, but judge of my
horror to find that that one was Thompson's ! I muttered something (not
loud, but deep), and would fain have relieved my feelings, but the presence
of ladies restrained me (this accident being witnessed also by my head-
printer, Miss L.). I could not honestly blame Miss S. for this—each thought
the other was holding the lot, and between us we let them drop. The
negative was broken in two, right across the forehead of figure. I put the
pieces carefully away, and, taking out a memo, form, wrote to Mr. Thompson,
asking him to kindly give another sitting, and offering to recoup him for his
trouble and loss of time ; this letter was posted five minutes after the
Nov., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 149
negative was broken, and the affair was forgotten by me for the time. How
ever, on Friday, the 9th of January, I was in the printing-room upstairs when
I was signalled by the whistle which communicates with the office, and Miss
S. asked if I could go down, as the gentleman had called about the negative.
I asked, "What negative?" "Well," she replied, "the one we broke,
Mr. Thompson's." I answered, "I am very busy, and cannot come down, but
you know the terms I offered him ; send him up to be taken at once. " " But
he is dead ! " said Miss S. "Dead ! " I exclaimed, and without another word
I hastened down the stairs to my office. Here I saw an elderly gentleman,
who seemed in great trouble. "Surely," said I to him, "you dcn't mean to
say that this man is dead ? " " It is only too true," he replied. " Well, it
must have been dreadfully sudden," I said, sympathetically, "because I saw
him only last Saturday. " The old gentleman shook his head sadly, and said,
" You are mistaken, for he died last Saturday."
"Nay," I returned, "lam not mistaken, for I recognised the negative
by him." However, the father (for such was his relationship to my
sitter) persisted in saying I was mistaken, and that it was he who called on
the Friday and not his son, and, he said, "I saw that young lady (pointing
to Miss S.), and she told me the photographs would not be ready that
week." "That is quite right," said Miss S., "but Mr. D. also saw a
gentleman on Saturday morning, and when I showed Mr. D. the
negative he said, 'Yes, that's the man who called.' I told Mr. D. then
of your having called on the Friday." Still Mr. Thompson sen. seemed
to think that we were wrong, and the many questions and cross-questions I
put to him only served to confirm him in his opinion that I had got mixed ;
but this he said : No one was authorised to call, nor had they any friend or
relative who would know of portraits being ordered, neither was there
anyone likely to impersonate the man who had sat for his portrait. I had
no further interview with the old gentleman until a week later, when he was
much calmer in his appearance and conversation, and at this interview ho
told me that his son died on Saturday, January 3rd, at about 2.30 p.m. ; he
also stated that at the time I saw him (the sitter) he was unconscious, and
remained so up to the time of his death. I have not had any explanation of
this mysterious visit up to present date, February 26th, 1891.
It is curious to me that I have no recollection of hearing the man come
upstairs, or of him going down. In appearance he was pale and careworn,
and looked as though he had been very ill. This thought occurred to me
when he said he had been travelling all night.
(Signed) James Dickinson.
43, Grainger-street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Miss S. signs the following statement :—
I am the Miss S. referred to in the foregoing narrative. I have read Mr.
Dickinson's statement carefully, and I can testify that everything in it
referring to me has been correctly stated.
Ethel Maud Simmon.
66, Malcolm-street, Heaton, April 1st, 1891,
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1S91.
The next statement was written by Mr. Nisbet from Mr. Thomp
son sen.'s information, and with a little alteration and addition signed
by him.
March 22ud, 1891.
At the beginning of December, 1890, my son, John Thompson, got
photographed by Mr. Dickinson, of Grainger-strect, Nowcastle-on-Tyne.
He was wishful to present a photograph of himself to each of his chief com
rades on New Year's Day. During the Christmas week he took typhoid
fever and was very ill.
On Friday, January 2nd, 1891, I went to Newcastle to purchase certain
articles for him, and being in Newcastle I thought I would kill two birds
with one stone, so I called at Dickinson's to see if his photos, were ready.
I called chiefly because he seemed anxious about them—he spoke of them
when he was delirious. I saw a young woman at Dickinson's who told me
that the photos, were not ready.
On Saturday, January 3rd, my son died at 2.5 p.m.
On Monday, January 5th, 1891, I received a letter addressed to my son
asking him to call and sit again for his photograph as the negative had been
broken. I still possess this letter and envelope ' (dated January 5th, 1891).
On Friday, January 9th, I called at Mr. Dickinson's, when he explained
that he had seen my son in his place on the previous Saturday. I told him
he must be mistaken, as my son was then ill in bed, but I told him that I
had called on the Friday about the photographs. Mr. Dickinson persisted
in saying he had seen my son on the Saturday, so I showed him tho
" burial lines " to convince him.
I know of no one who could have called about the photos, on tho
Saturday, nor do I know of any of my son's friends who could be mistaken
for him. My son was 21 years of age, and was studying for the Primitive
Methodist ministry. There was always strong sympathy between me and
my son. I had the power of influencing him at a distance. My son was
calm and steady, not easily excited ; tho joy of the housohold, and a
general favourite with the public. —Yours truly,
Thompson.
Mr. Dickinson informed Mr. Nisbet that he was perfectly well at
the time of this occurrence. He has never had any other experience
at all resembling this, but he is subject to nightmare and walking in
his sleep. [On one occasion a dream figure persisting into a waking
or semi-waking state was, he says, also seen by his wife.] He also
told Mr. Nisbet of an experience in automatic writing, which is of
interest in connection with the apparition. The following is Mr,
Nisbet's account of it.
Mr. Dickinson was standing in his office endorsing certain parcels of
coupons on January 2nd, 1891, [the day before the apparition] to put away
in a store-place, as is his custom at the beginning of each year. Just as
1 Mr, Nisbet has seen it.
Nov,, 1891,] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 151
he was going to write on one parcel with pencil, someone came in and made
a complaint to Miss S. about delay in sending photographs, &c. Mr. Dickin
son put down the parcel and listened to the complaint without joining in the
conversation, His hand, with pencil in it, rested on the parcel. When the
complainant had gone he asked Miss S. how it was she had given cause for the
complaint, &c. Then he turned round to his parcel and gave an exclamation
of surprise (which Miss S. confirms), on finding the word "Onwards"
written in a bold hand in pencil—his writing—but larger than usual. He
has kept the paper. I have seen it.
Mr. Nisbet learned that Mr. Dickinson was not quite sure whether
he was present when Mr. Thompson was photographed ; his assistant
says he was, but Mr. Dickinson cannot remember. They photographed
about 40 people on the day Mr. Thompson sat.
Mr. Nisbet further informs us that Mr. Dickinson is quite sure that
Miss S. had said nothing to him on the Friday about Mr. Thompson
senior calling, and that Miss S. confirms this.
All the above information was conveyed to us in a letter from Mr.
Nisbet, dated March 31st, 1891.
Professor Sidgwick was introduced to Mr. Dickinson in September,
1891, and heard his story vividly and fully told by himself. Extracts
only from his notes need be given here.
D. did not hear T. come in, but being busy writing was not surprised at
this though he was surprised that he had come so early. He asked, &c.
*****
T. said that " He could not call later, he had been travelling all night."
He had an overcoat on, and a careworn look—looked ill. The thought passed
through D.'s mind, "Yes, poor man, you have been travelling all night and
you are going home to die." Meanwhile T. turned and went out : he had
not sat down, but stood all the time. D. ran round the counter towards the
door and called after him, " Can I post them ? " but got no answer, and did not
hear the visitor go down or out ; this he would ordinarily have done, but the
not hearing did not surprise him. Ho thought the visitor was "huffed," and
turned to copy out the number of the order and the name on a piece of paper
on which he wrote the word "post." (This paper Mr. Nisbet saw, and
remembers reading the number and name, but the paper seems to be lost.)
All this, according to his recollection, with perfect wakefulness and without
the least idea or feeling of anything abnormal.
Two explanations seem to need discussion before accepting as a
fact that Mr. Dickinson's visitor was not a man of flesh and blood.
The first is that it may have been Mr. Thompson junior himself
in a state of delirium. It seems, however, impossible that during the
last few hours of a fatal illness, while believed by his family to be
unconscious, he should have got up, dressed himself, travelled 5| miles
and back and returned to bed, and all this without the knowledge
of those who were nursing him. In the first shock of hearing from
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1891.
his father that he had died on the Saturday, Mr. Dickinson, as he
told Professor Sidgwick, "could not still persuade himself that he had
not had a visit from Thompson in the flesh, but the father said that
' he could not possibly have got out, they were always with him.' "
And Mr. Nisbet has since learned more specifically that at 8 o'clock
on the morning of his death there were not only his father, mother,
and sister with him, but also friends.
The other explanation is that a friend of Mr. Thompson's called to
ask about the photographs, and that Mr. Dickinson's recognition of the
negative was a mistake. When Mr. Nisbet called on Mrs. Thompson,
the mother of the young man, she said there was a companion of her son
who knew about the photographs and who might have called at Mr.
Dickinson's. She said he was very like her son. Her husband, how
ever, scouted the idea altogether, said that the man in question, a
certain G.S., was a big man, not at all like his son, who was a small
man, and he appeared to convince his wife. Mr. Nisbet, however,
thought it would be desirable to ascertain whether G. S. had called, but
for some time could not learn his address. Mr. Thompson wrote to Mr.
Nisbet, April 14th: "According to the information I can gather there
was no one called at the office of Mr. Dickinson on behalf of my son."
In September, Mr. Nisbet learnt the address of G. S.'s parents, and
calling found that, though out at the time, he lived with them. His
mother told him that one day when G. S. came from chapel he had told
her that Miss Thompson had asked him whether he had called for John
Thompson's photographs, and that he was rather annoyed at its being
supposed possible that he would take such a thing upon him, not being
authorised. His mother was quite positive that he had not called at
the photographer's, and that he did not know where John Thompson
had been photographed, and she agreed with Mr. Thompson senior as
to the unlikeness of the two young men. 'We have heard of no other
possible caller.
The above account has been revised in proof by Mr. Nisbet. Mr.
Dickinson has also seen it and consents to its being printed in the
Journal. .
CORRESPONDENCE.
" NEGATIvE HALLUCINATIONS.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society fob, Psychical Research.
Sir,—" T. B.," in a letter in the October Journal records an experience,
his inability to perceive a foot-rule before his eyes. I have had many
similar experiences, so many in fact that I have formed a rule of conduct by
which to act upon any occasion of the disappearance of an object from a
place where reason affirms its presence. I look at the place and expect the
object to appear, and presently it emerges from nothingness into sight.
Nov,, 1891,] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 153
My explanation of my own experiences is that I have a habit of mis
laying things, so that my sudden want of any particular thing, say a pen, is
accompanied by a hopeless feeling or dominant idea that it is mislaid again.
Hypnotised by this idea, I cannot see the pen, and not seeing it I fall still
more under the influence of the idea. Recovery, now, is by a reasoned
belief that the pen is in its place, and tranquil expectation of its appearance
as above stated. Of old, it was only when I began to think of something
else that my eye, having no prepossession, would light on the pen as on any
other object, and perceive it.
Judging "T.B." by myself I should suppose that while he was carpen
tering he laid his foot-rule, now here, now there ; and that often, as a
consequence, he failed to lay his hand upon it immediately. After a few
such failures, when he wanted his foot-rule, the want would be accompanied
with an expectation of not finding it immediately. This expectation would
be sufficient to prevent him from seeing it, even before his eyes, and then,
not seeing it, he would become still more hypnotised against its presence.
When, after a search elsewhere, he at last perceived the foot-rule in its
place, this recovery would be due either to a returned conviction that it
must be there, or to his beginning to think of something else, as, for
example, what he was to do, a diversion of the thoughts which would free
his mind from its prepossession and leave him his ordinary vision. In all
probability "T.B." will be unable to say with certainty whether this is a
true explanation of his adventure, because he is not likely to remember
fugitive states of mind which he saw no reason to note in their passage. He
may, however, test the explanation in the course of some future experience
of a similar kind to that which he has narrated.
The following seems another example of the influence of the dominant
idea in the fully conscious state. I had read a proof four times, and each
time had seen the word " Obidicut " (the name of a fiend mentioned in
King Lear) clearly. At last my eye happened to rest upon the word, while
my thoughts wandered from the page, when suddenly my attention was
brought back by my seeing this word "Obidicut " change into "obedient"
under my eyes, by a transformation comparable to a rapid change of scene
on the stage. Knowing that I had written " Obidicut," and expecting to
find that word in the proof, I actually saw it, and but for an accident should
not have seen that it was misprinted "obedient." C. Downing.
SPIRIT PHOTOGRAPHY.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Dear Sir, —Will you kindly allow me to make a few remarks on Mrs.
Sidgwick's interesting paper on " Spirit Photography, " published in Part
XIX. of our Proceedings ?
It seems to me that Mrs. Sidgwick's criticisms amount to something like
this : when there is a professional spirit-photographer in the matter, no
evidence can be held conclusive ; when the photographs obtained are the
result of private experiment, the witnesses themselves are untrustworthy, or
at least one of them, this untrustworthy one playing the most important
part in the experiments. Well, I think such "canons of evidence" as these
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., ism.
can hardly be satisfied, and we may find ourselves, if we accept them, in a
vicious circle, out of which there is no issue. I wonder, for my part, what
would have become of a good deal of the evidence for telepathy—spontaneous
and experimental—if we were to subject it to the same treatment?
Occasionally Mrs. Sidgwick, when dealing with the evidence for tran
scendental photography, uses a third explanation, viz.: accident, as, e.g., in
the case of Dr. Williams, of Hayward's Heath, commenting on whoso
photographs she says :—
"I suspect that the throe earlier ones were not beyond tho range of some
Accidental flaw resembling part of a human figure."
Now, in the first place, it seems to me that believers in telepathy—and
Mrs. Sidgwick is one—ought to be very careful in postulating accident or
coincidence as an explanation of abnormal facts or phenomena ; and,
secondly, I feel inclined to think that an experienced photographer will
always be able to distinguish between a flaw in the substance of the plate and
some image—of whatever origin—on the surface of it.
I pass on to another case. Speaking of Mr. Thos. Slater's experiments,
Mrs. Sidgwick says : —
"He has not, so far as I know, published sufficient details to enable one
to judge of the conditions under which they [the results] were obtained."
Some details are, however, given in Mr. Alfred R. Wallace's Defence of
Modern Spiritualism, and I think the following extract may be read with
interest :—.
"The first of his [Mr. Slater's] successes contains two heads by the side
of a portrait of his sister. One of these heads is unmistakeably the late Lord
Brougham's ; the other, much less distinct, is recognised by Mr. Slater as that
of Robert Owen, whom he knew intimately up to the time of his death. Ho
has since obtained several excellent pictures of the same class. ... In
one case a second figure appeared on a plate with himself, taken by Mr. Slater
when he was absolutely alone—by the simple process of occupying the
sitter's chair after uncapping the camera" (p. 192, ed. 1875).
Mr. Wallace speaks also of the following photographs as obtained by
Mr. Slater:—
(1) "A female in black and white flowing robes."
(2) "A pretty child's figure, draped, standing beside Mr. Slater's littlo
boy."
(3) "A head and a bust appearing over Mr. Slater himself."
(4) "A full-length portrait of his [Mr. Slater's] sister " ; in this case the
sitter appears covered all over with a kind of transparent white drapery.
With regard to Robert Dale Owen's portrait, we learn from M. Aksakoffs
Animismus unci Spiritismus that as early as in 1850 Mr. Owen had promised
Mr. Slater to appear, if possible, on a photographic plate ; the promise was
given in consequence of a communication through raps having been received,
in which Mr. Slater was told that he would obtain spirit-photographs in
course of time. (M. Aksakoff refers to the Spiritualist of 1873, p. 509, and
also to the Spirit Magazine of 1873, p. 563.) In presence of these facts it
Nov., 1891.] Journal oj Society for Psychical Research. 155
seems to me that the easiest way to disposo of the evidence in Mr. Slater's
case would be to impugn the bonafides of Mr. Slater himself ; but have we
any right to do this 1
As for Mr. Beattie's experiments, many people will, I think, agree with
me that Mrs. Sidgwick's assumption that Mr. Josty was an untrustworthy
experimenter, capable of deceiving others—with what aim ?—is absolutely
without foundation, since the fact that fourteen years after the experiments
in question ho was found to have many debts unpaid, and not to be a
teototaller, does not prove much. Besides that, we know that, when under
taking his private experiments, Mr. Beattie had already been deceived in the
matter of spirit-photography ; a sufficient reason, it seems to nie, that he
whom the British Journal of Photography calls " a thoughtful, skilful, and
intelligent photographer, one of the last men in the world to be deceived,"
should take care not to confide in a person of whose bona fides he was not
certain.
Apart from this, we know that in each and every case the descriptions
given by the mediums of what they saw corresponded exactly with the
images which appeared on the plate. Now, supposing Mr. Josty was a
trickster, how could he have known what plate was going to be placed in the
camera, the whole of the photographic work being done by Messrs. Thompson
and Beattie ? Apart from this, how are we to explain the fact that it was
not only Mr. Josty but also Mr. Butland who gave accurate descriptions of
the invisible appearances supposed to be present 1 The following two in
cidents appear to me to be especially noteworthy :—
Mr. Josty describes a white fog ; Mr. Butland adds that he sees a figure
—both appear on the plate. Mr. Josty says he sees a black figure ; Mr.
Butland a light one (or vice versa)—both figures are photographed.
There are also some other features in the experiments which seem to
tell in favour of the genuineness of the photographs obtained ; these features
are :—
(1) The very great number of total failures, i.e., cases where nothing at
all appeared on the plate.
(2) The gradual process of development noticeable in the images which
appeared on the plates. Thus, says Mr. Wallace, " One set of five [photo
graphs] begins with two white, somewhat angular patches over the middle
sitter, and ends with a rude but unmistakeable white female figure covering the
larger part of the plate. The other three show intermediate states, indicating
a continuous change of form from the first figure to the last. Another set (of
four pictures) begins with a white vertical cylinder over the body of the
medium, and a shorter one on his head ; these change their form in the
second and third, and in the last become laterally spread out into luminous
masses, resembling nebidce," &c.
(3) A curious fact noticed by Mr. Beattie throughout his experiments,
viz., that the "spiritual figures" which appeared on the plates started out
the moment the developing fluid touched them, while the figure of the
sitter appeared much later.
Apropos of the gradual development of the figures I may notice here the
experiments of Signor Damiani (in Animismus nnd Spiritismus, reference is
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1891.
made to the Spiritualist of December 3rd, 1875), in which we find the same
characteristic features we have seen in Mr. Beattie's photographs. It is said
that at the request of a young German photographer, Signor Damiani
undertook to make experiments on the terrace of his own house, six
(obviously private) mediums being selected for the purpose. Out of five
photographs taken, on the first a column of light appeared ; on the second a
ball of light over the head of one of the female mediums ; on the third
plate there was the same ball with a spot in the middle ; on the fourth the
spot in question had increased in size ; and on the fifth it partly resembled
a human head. Now, however loosely these experiments are described, it
seems to me that they can hardly bo said to be of no importance evidentially,
the more so as they resemble so much the results obtained by Mr. Beattie,
in which, as I have said, the gradual alteration or development of the
invisible images photographed is one of the most conspicuous features.
At the Paris Congress of Spiritualists (1889), Captain Volpi, of Rome, has,
I believe, brought forward some interesting cases of " transcendental photo
graphy " within his own experience, and has even issued a challenge to all
professional photographers to produce the same results under the same
conditions. I am sorry I cannot give any details nor exact references since
I have not got the Report of the Congress, which is to bo found, I think, in
tho Library of the Society (Journal of the S.P.R., Vol. IV., p. 332).
As for Professor Wagner's experiment, it seems to me that a very curious
feature of it has remained unknown to Mrs. Sidgvvick. In an article printed
in a St. Petersburg newspaper, tho Novoic Vremia of February 5th (17th),
1880, under title of " Theory and Actuality "—and since reproduced in the
Russian translation of M. Aksakoffs recent work—Professor Wagner, after
describing the apparatus he used, says :—.
"I describe all these preparations in order to show all those who, like
Hartmann, wish to teach one the way in which mediumistic photographs are
to be taken, that I took precautions which every physicist and photographer
will deem sufficient, and of which the celebrated German philosopher has
probably no idea.
" We had been told through psychography [I presume the word means
here planchette rather than direct writing ; it is, I believe, sometimes used
with this meaning] the day on whiclt. the experiment was to be made and the
number of plates that were to be exposed; also that the mediumistic appearance
would manifest itself on the third plate."
A little further on Professor Wagner says : —
"We asked to be told through raps when wo must uncap the camera and
when we must finish the exposure. We had not to wait long : three loud
raps were heard on the floor, and after the exposure had lasted two minutes
the same raps told us to shut the camera."
In accordance with what he had been told, Professor Wagner found the
"appearance" on the third plate. By the way, if, as Mrs. Sidgwick
suggests, this result was due to some reflection off tho wall and furniture,
why did nothing appear either on the first or on the second plate ?
It is true that this experiment of Professor Wagner's was the only
successful one, and that, as he says, "18 photographs were taken under the
Nov., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. lot
same conditions " but with no result ; but still, as Mrs. Sidgwick does not
impugn in this case the good faith of any of the witnesses, the coincidence
of the directions given with the result obtained remains to bo explained.
With regard to professional spirit-photographers, I cannot say much
about them, firstly, because I have but little desire to undertake the defence
of those who have cheated—if only once—or may with some reason be
suspected of fraud ; secondly, because, from what Mrs. Sidgwick says, it
seems that, according to her opinion, no evidence as to experiments made in
the presence of professional photographers can be held conclusive. Still, I
may point out that in the case of Mumler the evidence of fraud as presented
in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper is somewhat weak and inconclusive,1 and that the
evidence for Jay Hartman's photographs is not examined at all, though
the successful test-seance he gave in the presence of some Cincinnati photo
graphers in 1870, appears to have been one of the most remarkable that ever
were given. At the conclusion of the seance a certificate was given to Hart-
man and, as I think that readers of the Journal are likely to be interested in
it, I reproduce it here (from M. Aksakofl's Auimismus und Spiritismus) :—
"We, the undersigned, having taken part in a public investigation of
spirit-photography undertaken at the request of Mr. J. Hartman, hereby
certify that we carefully followed all manipulations with our own marked
plates in the dark room as well as out of it, and that we found no proof of
fraud or trickery on Mr. Hartman's part. We certify also that, during the
last experiment which gave a result, Mr. J. Hartman did neither touch the
plate nor enter the dark room.—J. Slatter, C. H. Murhman, Y. Cutter, J.
P. Weckman, F. T. Moreland, T. Teeple, professional photographers.
E. Saunders, Wm. Warrington, Joseph Kinsay, Benjamin E. Hopkins,
E. Hopkins, G. A. Carnahan, Wm. Sullivan, James Geppert, D. V. Morrow,
M.D., Robert Leslie.
'.' Cincinnati, Ohio, December 25th, 1875."
Not to make my letter too long, I can only refer in passing to another
series of experiments of which an account is to be found in Auimismus
uiid Spiritismus, but of which no mention is made in Mrs. Sidgwick's paper—
the experiments of Professor Gunning (an American geologist), conducted in
1807 with a Connecticut photographer, a professional one, it is true, but who
took no money for his seances, "of whose good faith " the Professor tells us he
"had not the remotest doubt," and "whose reputation was stainless";
besides that, " we took all possible precautions " to make fraud impossible,
and yet striking results were obtained. (The account was originally pub
lished in the New York Tribune, and reprinted in the Spiritual Magazine of
1809, p. 200.)
It seems also that one of the chief reasons why Mrs. Sidgwick is inclined
to reject the evidence in favour of " transcendental photography " is that its
acceptance involves "immense theoretical difficulties." Now, I may be
1 Besides that, if, according to Mrs. Sidgwick (re Dr. Williams's photographs), the
resemblance of the images which appeared on the plates to human figures may have
been accidental, many people will be justified in drawing the conclusion that the
resemblance of one of Mumler's spirit-photographs to some living person may have
been accidental too !
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., isoi.
allowed to ask whether (1) we have any right to reject a fact simply
because it is difficult to imagine a theory that might fit it ; (2) whether all
or many facts, when first discovered, were not difficult to explain ; and (3)
whether there are not some facts which are very difficult to explain theoreti
cally, though Mrs. Sidgwick accepts them, e.g., telepathy? Apart from this,
the "theoretical difficulties involved "in the acceptance of transcendental
photography are perhaps not so "immense" as Mrs. Sidgwick considers
them. For it seems to bo a generally accepted fact that rays of light which
the human eye cannot see can be photographed, and that images invisible to
the human eye can affect the sensitized plate. (Cf. "M.A. (Oxon.)" in
Light of September 26th, p. 462, footnote.) Believers in spirit-photography
might even suggest, I think, that it is unnecessary to suppose a real
"spiritual " presence before the camera, and that the images which appear on
the plate may be duo to some process bearing a faint analogy to the way in
which everyone of us can cause "images " to appear on a window-pane by
breathing upon it. To sum up : I do not at all pretend that the evidence in
favour of "spirit-photography" is absolutely conclusive ; but what I say is
that I cannot agree with Mrs. Sidgwick that it does not even present "a prima
facie case for investigation " ; nor do I think that Mrs. Sidgwick's criticisms
must be considered as having done away with the evidence _ existing at
present. —I am, dear Sir, yours very truly,
9, Mohovai'a, Saint Petersbourg. Michael Solovoy,
September 24th (October 6th).
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir, —Mr. Solovoy's letter seems to call for somo reply from me, though
I fear to weary your readers with the subject.
I will not dwell long on mere expressions of disagreement with me. Of
this nature, for instance, is Mr. Solovoy's view of the bearing of our infor
mation as to Mr. Josty's character, and his view that Mr. Beattie could not
have been deceived by Mr. Josty. l These points have been discussed in
my paper. Of the same nature, again, is Mr. Solovoy's view that Dr. Williams
could have distinguished between a flaw in his photograph having a rough
resemblance to part of a human form, and a similar image due to spirit
intervention ; but here I am not sure that Mr. Solovoy means the same thing
by a flaw that I do. He seems to think it must be in the glass, which would
certainly not be my view. I should regard any accidental spot on the
photograph as a flaw.
Mr. Solovoy, again, disagrees with me as to the adequacy of the accounts
of Mr. Slater's experiment, and to prove his point quotes one of them. I
could not desire a better justification of what I said. The account is mainly
a statement of results obtained by Mr. Slater, with practically no details as to
1 Mr. Solovoy's statement that in Mr. Beattie's experiments " in each and every
case the description given by the mediums of what they saw corresponded exactly with
the images which appeared on the plate," seems to me to be exaggerated ; as also his
statement that the whole of the photographic work was done by Messrs. Thompson
and Beattie. I have given Mr. Beattie's statements on these subjects, such as they are,
in my paper.
Nov., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 159
the processes and precautions used in obtaining these results. In no depart
ment of physical science would a competent experimenter expect to
establish a fact on evidence so presented. He would give a minute and
careful account from notes made at the time of the processes adopted in
obtaining his result, of the possible sources of error that had occurred to him,
and of the precautions taken to exclude them. By this means others would
be able to criticise his work and would have an opportunity of discovering
sources of error, if any, which had been overlooked. And the greater the
theoretical difficulty of accepting a fact, the greater need is there of such
care in recording the experiments by which it is supposed to be demonstrated.
Mr. Solovoy begins his letter by a statement of my views which I cannot
accept. It is true that I think it unlikely that satisfactory evidence in so
difficult a matter could bo obtained when the bona fides of all concerned is
not above suspicion, or even when a person whose co-operation is essential
has a direct pecuniary interest in the result ; but unless spirit-photographs
had been proved impossible, it would be absurd to infer from the mere fact
of success that there had been an untrustworthy person playing an important
part. Is it possible that Mr. Solovoy is led to accuse me of so illogical a
proceeding by the fact that in the case of Mr. Beattio's experiment a per
son of doubtful character—Mr. Josty—actually did play an important part ;
his studio, his instruments, his glass, and his services being used and
apparently paid for, giving him a pecuniary motive to produce results 1
A misunderstanding of my views is unimportant, but I confess I am
somewhat shocked when I find Mr. Solovoy saying, " It seems to me that
believers in telepathy .... ought to be very careful in postulating
accident or coincidence as an explanation of abnormal facts." Doest he
mean that we do not give due weight to the operation of chance in esti
mating the evidence for telepathy, and that if we did the evidence would
fall to the ground 1 And if he does not mean this, what does he mean 1
Chance will account for a certain number of abnormal phenomena, and
what can seekers after truth have to fear from giving full weight to any
explanation ?
Turning to the evidence brought forward by Mr. Solovoy and not
mentioned in my paper, I will deal first with the fulfilled prediction, that
the third plate exposed by Professor Wagner would be the, or a, successful one.
I think this is of little importance evidentially because we have no reason to
think that the intelligence (not improbably Madame Pribitkow's subconscious
intelligence) which regulated (very badly) the exposure of the plates by raps
on the floor was unaware of the prophecy which it helped to fulfil. The
light was very bad. The exposure prescribed by the raps was for the first
plate two minutes, and for the second apparently the same, though this is not
explicitly stated. These plates were at once developed, and nothing of
interest found on them. Then the third plate was exposed, and this time
the time prescribed was nearly three minutes. How can we say that if the
other plates had been exposed as long, the same or similar marks would not
have appeared on them ?
With regard to the other evidence adduced by Mr. Solovoy, I know too
little about Signor Damiani and his experiments to have any opinion about
them.
160 journal of Society for Psychical Research, pfov., lsM-
Tho photographs obtained with a photographer at Naples and one at
Rome by Captain Volpi, were unknown to mo when my paper was published.
Since then I have seen copies sent by him to Mr. Myers, together with letters
from him and an account in an Italian Spiritualistic paper, II Vess'dlo
Spiritista for March, 1891. Space forbids my entering into details. Those
Members and Associates of the Society who wish to see the photographs, &c. ,
can do so at the Society's rooms. I will only say here that I do not think
any importance ought to be attached to the photographs in question as
evidence of spirit-photography ; I see no reason for thinking that Signor
Volpi was not deceived and some reason for thinking that he was. The
photographs were taken in 1870-1880.
Mr. Jay J. Hartman's case is not, so far as I know, better than that of
other spirit-photographers, and I did not think it necessary to refer to it
specifically. He had been accused of trickery and gave a public test-seance
on December 25th, 1875. The account of it was published in an anonymous
article in a Cincinnati newspaper (which for aught we know may have been
written by himself), and from this seems to have been copied into Spiritual
istic papers. There were 16 persons present ; we have no means of knowing
that none of them wore accomplices; nor does their certificate, quoted by Mr.
Solovoy, prove that they were not taken in by a clever trick. Moreover, they
certify more than the whole party can have been in a position to affirm, since
only two seem to have goneinto the dark room.
The case reported by Professor Gunning is perhaps stronger, but here
the photographer concerned—and on whom tho evidence must depend—
makes no statement, is not named, and though Professor Gunning believed
him to be honest, he had apparently only a slight acquaintance with him.
In conclusion, if I thought, as Mr. Solovoy and others do, that the
evidence showed a primd facie case for believing in spirit-photography, I
should at once learn the art of photography and endeavour to investigate
the matter thoroughly. And photography is so easily learnt now-a-days up
to a point sufficient for this purpose, and it would so obviously be worth
spending a great deal of time on these experiments if there were a reasonable
hope of obtaining results, that probably some of those who do believe that
there is a primd facie case will take up the matter experimentally. If so, I
trust that their experiments will bo recorded as honestly, carefully, and
minutely as scientific experiments should be, and that they will take care
to have no one present who is not trustworthy and willing to take his or her
share in the responsibility for the results. One special precaution I should
like to call attention to, namely, that experiments conducted by one person
absolutely alone should not be regarded as evidentially important. In many
departments of Psychical Research we have to do with abnormal states, and
with actions—like automatic writing—not regulated by the normal conscious
ness, and it is quite conceivable that apparent success in spirit-photography
might be brought about by actions of the experimenter of which his normal
consciousness had neither knowledge at the time nor recollection afterwards.
Any suspicion of this should be avoided by the presence of another
person.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
Nov., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 161
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Continued from the July Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
will be gratefully received.
B L 117. Ad Pn Tactile. 3rd hand, as good as 2nd.—Mr. J. C. Tyler
tells us that when his father died, his uncle, Mr. C, living a few miles away,
felt someone grasp his arms from behind. The death was sudden. Mrs. C.
had been telegraphed for, and had gone without letting her husband know
the real reason—his health being feeble. He described his experience when
she returned, and before she had told him the news. Mrs. C, who related
the above to Mr. Tyler, said that it was a common habit of her brother to
surprise Mr. C. by grasping him from behind. Date of event, May, 1886 ;
and of record, August, 1890.
B L 118. A<1 P« Dream. 2nd or 3rd hand.—Mrs. Robert Hawkins,
informs us that her father-in-law, the Rev Bradford Hawkins, dreamt of
seeing his brother lying upon the road, looking ghastly and bleeding. The
dream disturbed him so much that a doctor had to be called. The next mail
from India brought news that Commander Hawkins had been thrown from
his carriage when returning from a Government House ball and killed on the
spot. No dates are given. Recorded in 1890.
B L 119. Ad P" Visual. 3rd hand at best.—The same informant,
tells us that when the Rev. B. Hawkins [percipient in B L 118] was sitting
with an old woman whose son had driven to the neighbouring town she
suddenly started up, declaring that she saw her son seated opposite, muddy,
and with his head bleeding ; within an hour her son was brought in dead, his
cart having been upset. No dates given. Recorded in 1890.
B L 120. Ad Pn Visual. 2nd hand.—Strictly private.
B L 121. —Sir Frederick Leighton with a professional medium mentally
asked for Margheritone dArezzo and received an appropriate message.
The rest of the seance produced a very unfavourable impression as to the
medium's honesty. Date of incident " some years ago. " Recorded 1890.
B L 122. —Dream. Captain Cyprian Brydges dreams, as is supposed, of
a friend's fiancee, who was unknown to him, on the night on which she dies.
Coincidence of date not clear. Date of dream, 1858 ; of narrative, 1890. He
also sends an account, at unknown hand, of dreams about a murderous
butler.
B L 123. Clairvoyant dream. —Mrs. S., in a dream, sees a certain man
(staying in the neighbourhood and suspected of previous mischief) enter a
church and injure the books of a person against whom his family had a spite.
On her telling the man that this has been seen, he turns pale and promises
to leave the place. When he has left, mischief ceases. Date of event, 1861 ;
of narrative, 1890.
Also a symbolic dream at time of death (teeth falling out).
B L124. Adpn Visual. Collective.—Mrs. Harrison Wilson, deceased,
and her sister, Mrs. Summers, as children, see their mother at the moment
of her death, out of doors. The death was known to be imminent. 1st hand
from Mrs. Summers, good 2nd from Mrs. Wilson. Narrative written by Rev.
H. Kendall in 1870, and signed by Mrs. Summers 1890. Date of event about
1858. Mrs. Summers also describes a supposed ghost seen as a child ;
possibly a real man.
B L 125. 2nd hand. —Dr. Cholmely reports that a patient in hospital ill
of typhoid fever—whose son was also ill of it in another part of the building
—told him one morning that she had seen her son in the night about 3 a.m.
and that he told her he was dead. The son had died between 2.30 and 3 a.m.,
and the news, it is believed, could not have reached her by normal means. It
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., i89i.
is not known whether the experience was a dream. Date of event, 1884 ; of
narrative, 1889.
B L 12G. Dream. (Rumour dreamt.)—Mrs. Alexander—having just
heard of Mr. Bravo's death—dreams his wife has poisoned him, before any
thing of the kind was said in the papers. Date of event, 1876, and of record,
1890. Account approved by percipient. Mr. Bravo, but not Mrs. Bravo,
was known to Mr. and Mrs. Alexander.
B L 127. An Pa—Mrs. Miller dreams that her son has passed through
Dover on his way home from China and lost his despatch box. She tells her
brother (who corroborates) in the morning, and in the afternoon hears of her
son's unexpected arrival. He had passed through Dover at the time of her
dream and lost his box. Date of incident, I860. Date of record, 1885.
B L 128. Ad Pn 2nd hand. From Mrs. du Gue, Dingle, Co. Kerry.—
Mrs. Gray relates that her father, then at ,Barbadoes, awoke one night in
1850, and saw his brother who had died 20 years before, and who told him
that their mother had just died. The death occurred at Tralee at the time
of the vision. Account received in November, 1889.
B L 129. Dream. Received through the American Branch.—Mr. F.
sends some instances of apparent telepathy occurring in his own experience.
One is that his mother dreamt of him running about and finally disappearing
in a room full of machinery, on a night when he had been anxious about
some machinery that he had to manage. Corroboration from mother.
Date, November, 1888. Recorded March, 1889.
B L 130. Thought-transference or muscle-reading. From Mr. Beau-
champ Tower, through Lady Rayleigh.—This is a case of the willing game
with contact, but which looks more than usually like thought-transference.
Date of experience, 1881 or 1882. Date of record, 1890. .
L 131. Ad P" Borderland. From Mr. J. Watson, through the Rev.
A. T. Fryer. —(1) 3rd hand. Mr. Watson's grandfather, Captain Watson, saw
his brother-in-law at the time of his death. (2) Subjective hallucination.
Mr. Watson's uncle saw the apparition of his father, Captain Watson, several
times sitting at his writing-table. Date of (1) between 1807 and 1810.
Date of record, 1890.
B L. 132. Ae Pn Through the American Branch. Spontaneous
thought-transference ?—Mr. Anthony being away from home feels unaccount
ably depressed all day, and when waiting for a friend sees his wife holding
the baby, who appears to be very ill, in her arms. He then saw the child
as it would have appeared when about 12 years old. On going home he
found the child had been ill. He attributed the visions to thought-trans
ference from his wife. Date, 1852. Recorded 1888.
B L 133. Through the American Branch. (1) A<1 P"> Borderland.—
Mrs. E. C. sees her son standing by her bedside. Afterwards he appears to
her several times again, calling her "mother." He had died at sea about
the time of his first appearance. Date, 1884. (2) Collective. —Mrs. E. C.
saw her brother, who had died a year before, standing by her bed. He
disappeared and then her little son, sleeping in next room, called out that he
saw him. Date, about 25 years ago.
B L 134. Ad P3 Dream. —Mrs. Whitaker has vivid dream of seeing
her brother ; wakes much agitated and tells her husband that she knows he
is dead. Her brother died "at the identical time." Mr. E. Whitaker
confirms. Date of dream, about 20 years ago. Recorded, October, 1889.
B L 135. —Mrs. Bagot, when abroad in 1883 saw her favourite little dog
run across dining-room of hotel. Dog died suddenly in England about that
time. No confirmation. Recorded December, 1890.
B L 136. Ad Ps Visual. 3rd hand, as good as 2nd 1—Mrs. Bagot's father,
General Chester, was asked for leave by a Sergeant, who stated that he
believed his wife must be dead as he had seen her standing by his bed in the
Nov., 1891.] Journal of -Society for Psychical Research. 163
early morning. Leave was granted, and the man found that his wife had
died at the time stated. Date 1830 or 1831. Recorded December, 1890.
B L 137. Ad Pn Visual.—Mrs. Parker saw face and form of brother-
in-law just as he appeared when last seen. He was known to be very
seriously ill at a distance. His death occurred at the time of the apparition.
Date of experience, February, 1861. Recorded October, 1890.
B L 138. An Pn Thought-transference. —Mrs. Murray Aynsley relates
that a friend was speaking to her about the psychical experiences of a lady,
without mentioning her name, and that the name suddenly occurred to Mrs.
Murray Aynsley, though she did not know the lady and thought her an
unlikely person to have guessed. Date of incident, 1887. Recorded 1888.
B L 139. Ad Pn—Mrs. M. informs us that on January 19th, 1860,
just before getting into bed, she saw an illuminated picture of Calcutta
aappear upon the wall, and her brother's face appeared at a window of one
of the buildings. The vision lasted about five minutes, after which Mrs.
M. struck a light and noted the time in her Bible. Her brother was
supposed to be in perfect health on his way to England, but he did not
arrive as expected, and in course of time the news came that he had died at
the time of the vision in a Calcutta hospital. Mrs. M. sends us the note
referred to as having been made at the time. Recorded February, 1889.
B L 140. As P3 Reciprocal dreams.—Mrs. Thomas Bayley dreamt
that a young man in a strange house greeted her familiarly and claimed to
be her brother. Upon awakening she related the dream to her husband, who
aconfirms. The day after the dream she was on the tramcar running from
Abbey-street to Clontarf, Dublin, when a gentleman got up whom she
immediately recognised as the young man of her dream. He on his part
seemed surprised to see Mrs. Bayley, and presently informed her that he
had seen her face in a dream last night. Our informant was naturally some
what confused, and passed the matter off. We have advertised in the
Freeman's Journal and the Irish Times, asking the stranger to communicate
with us, but up to the present we have not heard from him. Date of dream,
July 4th, 1889. Recorded next day.
B L 141. Clairvoyant dream.—Miss C. L. informs us that she was
about to visit the house of a friend, Mr. R. W. N., where she expected to
be introduced to his two sisters. A fortnight before the visit she dreamt
that she was at the house and was talking to the two young ladies, but there
was also a young girl about 14 in the room, to whom she was not introduced
but who appeared to be one of the family. She seemed to ask Mr. N. who
this young girl was, and he replied that he did not know. Next day she
related the dream to Mr. N. , who mentioned the matter when he wrote home
a few days later. In reply he was told that there was a young friend who
came to the house every day to share in lessons and who was almost one of
the family. When Miss L. went to the house a week or so later she found
that the room was unlike what she saw in her dream ; and she does not think
that the young ladies were very like. Mr. R. W. N. confirms. Date of
dream, September 1st, 1890. Recorded November 26th, 1890.
B L 142. Mr. S. , in a momentary dream or trance, has a vision of what
is occurring at a friend's house. He hears his friend proposing to send a
trap for him, as it was raining. Date of incident, 1886, of record, 1891.
B L 143. A'l Pn Collective. Visual.—Mr. G. H. S. informs us that he
and Mr. "X." were walking along a quiet road in a suburb of London when
they saw Captain C, an intimate friend of the latter (but unknown to the
former) approaching. Mr. "X." exclaimed in surprise, and at the same
time they saw Captain C. retreating up a fork in the road. The percipients
knew that Captain C. was with his regiment at Sebastopol. They afterwards
learnt that he was killed in the attack on that afternoon. Recorded
February, 1888. Mr. "X." is no longer living.
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1891.
B L 144. Ad P" Borderland. 2nd hand, as good as 1st. Visual. —Mrs.
Martin informs us that when in India in 1857 Major Gall left Lucknow with
dispatches to go across country. On the second day after his departure Mrs.
Gall communicated to Mrs. Martin that she had seen the apparition of her
husband on the previous night and she felt assured he must be dead.
Tidings of the Major's death reached Lucknow a few days after. Recorded
March, 1888.
B L 145. An Pn—Miss E. J. Loveday gives accounts of two instances
in which acquaintances passed her in the street just as she was talking of
them to her companion. In each case she had not seen the person of whom
she was speaking for several years. Dates 1867 and 1809. Recorded
February, 1888.
B L 146. A"1 P«—Mr. R. S. Skirving informs us that on October 1st,
1887, he dreamt that an old acquaintance stood by his bed. He felt reminded
that he ought to send some game, but a second person seemed to say,
"He is dead." Mr. S. believed that his friend was in perfect health. On
October 3rd he read an announcement of the death in a delayed newspaper ;
it occurred in the afternoon preceding the dream. Recorded within a month.
B L 147. Dream —Mrs. Tyaeke dreams of Mrs. Carlyon's death the
night before she sees it in the newspaper, with some correct details unknown
to her. It may have been thought-transference from her father-in-law, who
knew of the death before, and was an old friend of Mrs. Carlyon's ; or it is
just possible that Mrs. Tyaeke may have seen the announcement in the news
paper the day before without noticing it.
B L 148. Dream. —Mr. Goldberg has grotesque dream early one morn
ing, in which the most impressive point is the death of his brother-in-law.
He hears in the evening that his brother-in-law's child died in the morning.
Date, 1891. Recorded same evening. Received through Lieut. Col. Taylor.
B L 149. Collective. Visual. 2nd hand from one of the per
cipients. Sent by Miss M. Avery, of Ploughkeepsie, New York. —Her
grandmother, when a girl, saw her uncle riding up the drive to the house on
ahorse of a different colour from the one he always rode. He was seen at the
same time from different points of view by 4 other members of the house
hold. There were no traces of horses' footsteps to be seen on the drive
afterwards. The uncle came home as expected a day or two later on his
usual horse, and had had nothing to do with any other. The incident
happened "many years ago." Date of narrative, 1891.
NOTICE.
For those of our Members and Associates who may wish to observe
the phenomena of the hypnotic state and the methods of its induction
it is hoped that it may be possible to arrange some small gatherings in
the Society's rooms, 19, Buckingham-street, Strand, W.C., at which
some cases of hypnosis may be presented under medical supervision.
It would be of very great assistance if .any Members could themselves
attend, or bring others, who were not unwilling to allow a careful
attempt to be made to hypnotise them. The names of any who would
wish to attend or could bring subjects should be sent to G. Albert
Smith, Esq., 2, Howletts-road, Heme Hill, London, S.E., with an
intimation of the time of meeting, evening or other, that would be most
convenient.
No. LXXXV.—Vol. V. Decembek, 1891.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
New Members and Associates 106
Meeting of the Council 168
General Meeting 167
Cases Received by the Literary Committee 172
Correspondence 177
Notice 179
Supplementary Library Catalogue ..180
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Howard, Robert Henry, Sowerby, Thirsk.
Selous, Edmund, Barton Mills, near Mildenhall, Suffolk.
ASSOCIATES.
Benson, R. Hugh, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bouverie, Edward O. P., M.A., 93, Park-street, Grosvenor-square, W
Buttemer, Robert William., St. Mary's, Godalming.
Garet-Charles, G.G.,Woodleigh, Gough-road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Gibotteau, Aime, M.D., Villa Bearnaise, Biarritz.
Gover, John M., LL.D., 1, Garden-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Johnston, Miss M. F., 16, Gunterstone-road, West Kensington, W.
Lyttelton, Sybella, Lady, 9, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Nathen, S. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Nevill, The Lady Dorothy, 45, Charles-street, London, W.
Palmer, Lieut. H.R., R.A., The Grand Depot Barracks, Woolwich.
Smith, Wallace A., 34, Devonshire-street, Portland-place, London, W.
Verrall, Miss M. E., 26, Gloucester-place, Brighton.
Willan, Miss Florence M., 50, Weymouth-street, Portland-place, W
Williams, Rev. Nelson G., M.A., East Meon, Petersfield, Hants.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Avery, Miss M. H.,137, Academy-st., Poughkeepsie, New York, U.S.A.
Hawkins, William M., 6, Colt Block, Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
Long, Rev. J. D., Babylon, Long Island, New York, U.S.A.
Smith, H. W., 410, Laurel-avenue, St. Paul, Minnesota, U.S.A.
Stevens, Free Public Library, San Francisco, California, U.S.A.
White, Henry G., 32, Irving-place, Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dkc., 1891.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on December 4th. Mr. H.
Arthur Smith was voted to the chair at the commencement. It was
taken subsequently by the President. The following Members were
also present : Professors 0. J. Lodge and W. F. Barrett, Rev. A. T.
Fryer, Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. T. Bark worth, W. Leaf, F. W.
H. Myers, F. Podmore, S. C. Scott, and R. Pearsall Smith.
Two new Members and fifteen new Associates, whose names and
addresses appear on the preceding page, were elected. The election of
six new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
The Council recorded with regret the death of the Bishop of Carlisle,
a Vice-President of the Society, and also of the Earl of Lytton, who
became a Member early in the present year.
At the request of Mr. H. M. W. Bridgeman, his election as a
Member at the last Meeting of the Council was cancelled, he having
accepted an appointment abroad.
The resignation of three Members and six Associates, who for
various reasons desired their connection with the Society to terminate
at the end of the current year, was accepted.
At their request, the names of Mrs. Dowson, Mr. Gordon Hooper,
and Mr. I. B. Nicholl, were ordered to be transferred from the list of
Members to that of Associates at the end of the year.
The names of five Members and four Associates, who from different
causes had become merely nominal members of the Society, were
ordered to be struck off the list.
The names of the Members of Council who retire by rotation at
the end of the year were read over. The Assistant Secretary was
directed to ascertain their wishes as to standing for re-election, and to
send out the usual notices in regard to the Annual Business Meeting,
according to the Rules.
Arrangements were agreed to for advertising the forthcoming Part
XX of the Proceedings to a greater extent than usual.
As the term for which the rooms not occupied by the Society are
let expires at Christmas, it was resolved that they should, for the next
three months at all events, be retained in hand, so as to be available
for the gatherings mentioned on page 179.
The following dates were fixed for General Meetings, subsequent to
that already arranged for January 29th :—March 4th, 8.30 p.m., April
8th, 4 p.m., and May 27th, 8.30 p.m.
Various other matters of business were attended to.
It was agreed that the next Meeting of the Council should be at
Westminster Town Hall, at the close of the Annual Business Meeting
on January 29th, unless it was found advisable to summon one earlier,
Dec, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 167
GENERAL MEETING.
The 49th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, December 4th, 1891, at 8.30 o'clock ;
the President in the chair.
Professor Oliver Lodge read a paper on some experiments in
thought-transference conducted by him in Carinthia last autumn, with
two young ladies—sisters—of his acquaintance, one of them acting as
agent and the other as percipient. They had been accustomed to
playing the " Willing Game " together with contact, but had never
before tried careful experiments in thought-transference. Professor
Lodge found that contact of some kind, though it might be only
through the backs of the knuckles, was essential to success in the
experiments he tried with them, but this may have been due only to
their being accustomed to contact. With contact the success in trans
ferring cards, numbers, words, diagrams (some of them nameless), and
objects was far beyond what chance would produce. He did not
expect the experiments to carry conviction to those who did not on
other grounds believe in thought-transference, but he had himself no
doubt of their genuineness.
Mr. Pearsall Smith asked whether Professor Lodge had inquired
in what way the impression came to the percipients.
Professor Lodge said that they told him that when their eyes were
closed many indistinct images presented themselves, crowding in on
one another, and that when experimenting one such image appeared
more clearly and persistently than others. This one they assumed
to be the one thought of, and guessed accordingly. He thought it
interesting that their description tallied with that of two young ladies
he had tried experiments with at Liverpool (see Proceedings, Vol. II.,
pp. 189-200) some years ago, though the percipients in the two sets of
experiments were completely unknown to each other and differed in
nationality, education, surroundings, and station in life.
Gentlemen in the audience asked whether Professor Lodge had
tried contact through gloves, or so arranging matters that the per
cipient should not be aware whether she was in contact with the agent
or with some other person.
Professor Lodge thought these both good suggestions, but had not
tried them.
Professor Barrett compared these experiments to some previously
published by the Society, and in particular referred to some of his own
mentioned in Proceedings, Vol. I., in which some kind of contact had
also been found necessary.
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Due, 1891.
Mr. Fox asked whether Professor Lodge attributed the need of
contact to the percipient's imagination.
Professor Lodge said he was not prepared to give an explanation,
but he thought it would be very odd if contact had any direct effect
in facilitating thought-transference. He considered it to be a regret
table feature in the present experiments, and had asked the ladies to
try whether, by practice, they could dispense with it.
A request being now made that he would communicate to the meet
ing his views about the performance of Mrs. Abbott—advertised as
the Little Georgia Magnet,
Professor Lodge replied that he had come to a definite conclu
sion in his own mind with regard to her performances, on the strength
of a private interview before her public appearances began, and after
subsequent trials and experiments which he had made. Her perform
ance is genuine in the sense that no mechanical devices or apparatus
are employed, and the feats she attempts she legitimately accomplishes.
The accounts given of those feats are often exaggerated, and the pic
torial representations very misleading ; but the feats themselves are
surprising, and at first sight incredible. He finds, however, that they
can nearly all be imitated, some of them very easily.
The alternate pulling or pushing at a man holding a chair in his
arms is absurdly simple, for no one can keep his balance under a
completely irregular force.
The failure to slide a cue past the open hands of Mrs. Abbott, by
exerting on it force sufficient to call out the necessary friction, is also
easy to understand and to repeat. The way to succeed in sliding the
cue is to decline to exert any violence at all.
The failure to push Mrs. Abbott from her position on the heel of one
foot by steadily pushing a billiard cue held by her is also a matter of
simple mechanics, combined with sufficient strength of arm and knack.
A short person under thrust becomes a strut, and has a great advantage
over a tall person : the rotating moment about her heel as fulcrum
being very small. Another lady, who is also short and strong, has
been found able to do the same thing. It would be impossible for a
short person to resist a pull in the same way ; then the tall and heavy
person has the advantage. But this test has been declined.
The resistance to pushing up against a wall faced by the lady, with
her hands exerting very slight pressure on it, is readily explicable if
one finger be always permitted direct contact with the wall ; for a
slight force thus applied has a considerable moment.
The hoisting of a chair with several persons piled on it seems to be
a feat partly of strength and partly of utilisation of the (often un
Dec, 1891,] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 169
conscious and spasmodic) pressure against the floor of the feet of the
two lowest persons in the pile. The raising is a jerk and very momen
tary, and when much attention is being directed to the hands is best
done with the anns and knee. In the early trick with one person,
when the knee and feet are likely to be watched, there is no particular
difficulty in doing it with the hands. When many people are on the
chair the knee becomes necessary, unless one of those with feet on the
floor is an accomplice. With the knee it is possible to jerk up a good
many persons.
The apparent extra heaviness of the lady when attempted to be
lifted by the elbows is not easy to explain. Professor Lodge con
jectures that ordinary persons have not much margin of lifting force
to apply in this position, and that Mrs. Abbott is heavier than she
looks ; but even so, it is surprising that by a little inconvenient placing
of the elbows forward or backward lifting should become so much
more diffioult.
Although the explanation of this feat is not complete he does not
presume it necessary to postulate an occult force for this one of the
series, when all the other feats are susceptible of mechanical explana
tion. He has requested permission to try the lifting experiment
(especially that where a boy is made difficult to lift) once more, but
the request was declined, unless it was done at a public performance,
which is by no means so satisfactory.
An impromptu balance made by Professor Fitzgerald out of a chair
and billiard cue lying on the floor indicated that Mrs. Abbott's weight
decreased properly as lifting force was applied ; and there is no reason
to make the extraordinary and momentous hypothesis that the real
weight of a person can be altered at will, though undoubtedly she can
make herself difficult to lift by the elbows.
The raising of a vertical cue held down by many hands, and with
a man perched on the top, Professor Lodge has not seen, but he
supposes it to be partly due to an instinctive fear lest the cue should
break, with unpleasant consequences ; so that several men are liable to
be straining upwards instead of downwards ; especially the man whose
hand is being hurt by pressure against the end of the cue.
Thus his report is, that Mrs. Abbott is a strong though small woman,
and that her feats are such as would give her shortness an advantage.
In all cases her position with respect to the thing to be done is
precisely that of most mechanical advantage ; i.e., is that which a
person endeavouring to achieve the result by muscular force would find
it best to assume.
The conclusion is that the effective agent, in all but the extra-
heaviness case, is muscular force,
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [P«c„ 1891.
A paper by Mr. Hodgson, announced for this meeting, not having
been received,
Mr. F. W. H. Mvers gave in its place an address on "The
Mechanism of Suggestion." He endeavoured to show that the obedi
ence to hypnotic suggestions, or even to suggestions given to suscep
tible subjects in the waking state, required us to suppose that some
subliminal intelligence was at work within us, and possessed powers
which the supraliminal intelligence either had never possessed, or at
any rate had now lost.
Even the commonest of hypnotic suggestions—the production of
analgesia or insusceptibility to pain—implied (the speaker argued) an
intelligence of this advanced type. For the absence of painful sensa
tion was not attained (as our narcotics usually attained it) by tempor
arily abrogating all sensation ; but by dissociating the sense of pain from
other forms of sensation—by inhibiting that sense and that alone—
even in the presence of grave organic injury. Still more manifestly
was a watchful subliminal intelligence needed in cases of "systematised
anaesthesia," where the subject was rendered unaware of the presence,
for instance, of some one special person. As had been often remarked,
the subject must in some sense nee that person in order not to see him ;
in order to maintain the " negative hallucination " that impressions of
sight, sound, touch, proceeding from that special person were non
existent.
Again, there were many cases where hypnotic suggestion set on
foot some organic process—as the formation of a blister—which our
supraliminal intelligence knew no way of imitating. There must be
something within us which did know how to make a blister, or the
blister would not appear at command. Possibly our subliminal con
sciousness might retain some power over the action of our component
cells analogous to that possessed by our monocellular ancestors. But
however far we might press this hypothesis (which Prof. Delboeuf also
had urged) of some renewed exercise of ancestral powers, even this
would not explain the action of hypnotic suggestion on tastes and
character—that is to say, on cerebral ganglia which our lowly ancestors
did not possess, and could not therefore teach us how to modify.
After briefly reviewing some of the purely physiological explana
tions which had been put forward, and showing that they only
attempted to cover a small fraction of the observed phenomena, the
speaker pointed out that the solution of the Nancy school, which
referred all the phenomena to "the power of suggestion," was in effect
only a restatement of the problem itself. He urged that these marvel
lous responses of our hidden being to mere formulae of command were
in reality the result of self-suggestion rather than of suggestion from
Deo., 1891.J Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 171
without ;—were analogous to many other phenomena (as automatio
writing, veridical hallucinations, ifcc. ) which indicated that there
existed within us a consciousness profounder than that with which we
habitually identified ourselves, and in possession of powers which our
empirical self could not imitate, and could only dimly apprehend.
Mr. Baekwobth said that the examples given by Mr. Myers of
the action of suggestion were all capable of being classified under three
heads : (a) suggestion under hypnotism, (b) involuntary self-suggestion,
(c) voluntary self-suggestion. In the first class the active conscious
ness of the subject, which includes his will, was shut off, and the
passive consciousness therefore lay helplessly under the operator's con
trol, unchecked by any interference from the voluntary activities of
the subject's own mind. The two other classes showed similar effects
produced by opposite causes respectively. Involuntary self-suggestion
might be considered as produced by emotion or shock strong enough to
overcome the corrective guidance of the active consciousness, as when
the lady seeing the child's ankle crushed in the gate instinctively
and against facts felt the effects upon her own foot. The same truth
is illustrated by the well-known tendency of the apprehension of a
disease to produce it. Such results may be induced either by the
violence of the shock, or of the terror, or by the weakness of the will
in resisting them, as in nervous or hysterical subjects. Thirdly, the
dissociative agency of self-suggestion was shown in an exactly converse
way by persons of exceptionally strong will who imposed suggestions,
e.g., of analgesia upon themselves, and were thus enabled to bear
extreme pain not only without flinching but, as it seemed in many cases,
almost without suffering ; but this class of cases must always remain
the rarest of the three, because the connection of pain with physical
injury was one of the most deeply-rooted instincts of nature, and to
overcome it needed resistance, not only to the pain as directly induced,
but also to the preoccupation of inherited instincts associating it with
injury.
Mr. Wingfield asked Mr. Myers whether he thought that a
successful suggestion made to a person fully awake and who never had
been hypnotised took effect on the subliminal consciousness.
Mr. Myers considered that since the subject carried out the sugges
tion, not voluntarily, but because he felt he must, the suggestion did
act on the subliminal consciousness.
Mr. Wingfield went on to say that he thought self-suggestion was
rather common with hysterical patients. He had found a large
number of cases in hospital. Erythema of a transient kind, he thought
also, was easy to produce by suggestion. He wished to ask how Mr.
Myers accounted for ansesthesia produced by suggestion on a hypnotised
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Deo,, 1891,
patient asleep, so that we must suppose the supraliminal consciousness
to be in abeyance, and the passive consciousness supreme.
Mb. Myers was willing to assume several strata of consciousness,
so that he saw no difficulty here.
Mk. Wingfield said that he had never been able to find a case
where he could communicate, by planchette or otherwise, with any
consciousness below the hypnotic consciousness.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
We give this month a number of cases of apparent thought-trans
ference. In some of these the comparative triviality either of the
incident exciting the agent's attention, or of the percipient's experience,
necessarily somewhat weakens their force as evidence for telepathic
communication. If telepathy be a reality, however, it probably
operates in trifling matters as well as in serious ones, though it is
more difficult to observe in the former. It is important, therefore, to
note and record any apparent instances of it that can be observed.
L. 893. Impression.
Friday, March 13th, [1891].
I am at present an undergraduate of Trinity College, Cambridge. At the
time the incident occurred I was a Rugby boy. I was at home for the holidays
during the summer of 1880. I think the month was August. I was
employed in reading for an Indian prize given at school ; consequently, on
the occasion of a tennis party given at our house, the Rectory of Great Roll-
right, Chipping Norton, Oxfordshire, I did not go out with the rest when
they went down to our tennis court, which is about 200 yards off, but stayed in
side the house reading Holmes' Indian Mutiny. My mother had gone out with
the rest to the tennis ground. Feeling it cold, she sent my youngest brother,
H., for her white shawl. I met him halfway between the tennis ground and
the house carrying the aforesaid shawl [myself]. The reasons for this were :
at the time that my mother asked my brother to get her the shawl, I felt an
impression that I must do something. This gradually increased in intensity
till I knew that my mother wanted a shawl ; then, as if by another stage of
completer intuition, I knew it was a white shawl, and I knew that I had to
go to the drawing-room to fetch it (though I did not previously know it was
there). So I went and fetched it and brought it to my mother, as I felt
obliged to do. She and my brother were, of course, greatly surprised, and I
remember asking her whether she had thought of me in connection with the
shawl, or wished me in any way especially to fetoh it. She responded in
the negative, which makes the matter more curious. The call was distinct
and imperative, and altogether unlike anything else I have ever experienced.
I have never seen phantasmagoria, &c., or had any other strange experiences
of the sort before or since. Vernon H. Rendall.
I corroborate all the details in the incident here related.
Ellen H. Rendall,
Great Rollright Rectory, Chipping Norton.
Dbo., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 173
L. 894. Dream.
Tins account by Mrs. F. B. Goddard was sent to the American
Branch of the Society by Mrs. J. A. S., who writes :—
February 11th, 1891.
Mrs, Goddard's experience seems of value to me. She is an unusually
clear-headed and sensible woman, a graduate of Mount Holyoke.
Mrs, Goddard writes :—
February 11th, 1891.
The simple facts are these :—
I was living in Brooklyn ; my husband was travelling homeward from the
West. One night I was suddenly wakened as by some noise. My first
thought was, my husband is hurt. I tried to analyse the sound. I was so
impressed, that to shake off the superstitious feeling, I rose, walked into the
room where my children were sleeping, looked at my watch, and returned to
bed, but could not sleep.
I said nothing of my dream, as I regarded it, to the family, but searched
the papers for railroad accidents.
During the next night the door bell rang, and I went downstairs to let in
my husband. He kept one hand in his pocket ; I spoke of it ; he said he
had been hurt. "Yes," I replied, "I knew it—at such an hour yesterday
morning." "Why, yes, about that time—but how did you know it ? " ho
asked, astonished.
He was standing on a car platform holding on to the casement of a heavy
brass-bound door. The conductor had suddenly slid the door together and
cut off the end of his finger.
Making allowance for variation of time, we were convinced that the sound
that awakened me was that of the door as it crashed together.
Mr. F. B. Goddard writes to Mr. Hodgson :—
N. Y., July 31st, 1891.
Enclosed I sent to Mrs. Goddard (at present in the country) as soon as it
was received by me from you. She returns it to-day, with request that I
should endorse and forward it to you.
I have to say that it is some years since the occurrence, but the facts were
substantially as stated.
L. 895. Dream.
Professor Thomas Davidson writes :—
Keene, Essex Co., N.Y., June 9th, 1891.
Dear Mr. Hodgson,—Last night, toward morning, I dreamt in a vivid
way that my friend, Mr. S. F. Weston, whom you know, had sent me a
postal card saying that he was " coming on Wednesday." I mentioned my
dream to two friends, Miss Kent and Mrs. John Dewey (of Ann Arbor), at
the breakfast-table. At ten we started for Upper Jay, some nine miles off.
On our way home we called at the post-office, and there I received from Mr.
Weston the enclosed letter, the unscored part of which you are free to pub
lish. This was about four o'clock in the afternoon,
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 18di
You will see from the letter that I had no reason to suppose Mr. Weston
was coming before the end of the month. Note that the words which I saw
on the card are not in the letter. The " Wednesday " made a very distinct
impression on my mind. The letter, as you will see, was written on Sunday.
I enclose the independent testimonies of the two ladies.
*****
Thomas Davidson.
P.S. —You will understand that, leaving New York to-day, Mr. W. will
get here to-morrow (Wednesday).—T. D.
The following are extracts from Mr. Weston's letter :—
36, Lee Ave., Brooklyn, June 7th, 1891.
My dear Mr. Davidson,—I have delayed answering your letter for
several days as I have not been quite sure where I should spend the month
of June. I expected to return to my uncle's, but Dr. Moore urged me to
go to Farmington. . . . But Friday I got a letter from my brother
saying that his cabin had been broken into, and he is very anxious to have
me go up there and stay during June and get things in order and repaired,
as he has rented his cabin for July and August. ... I shall stay at the
cabin about two weeks and hope to occupy my little tent by the last of June.
. . . Glenmore will present the appearance of quite a villa this year. Am
sorry I shall not be able to get the things you wanted as I shall take the boat
Tuesday night. Wish you had mentioned them in your letter. . . .
S. F. Weston.
Miss Kent corroborates as follows :—
This morning, June 9th, 1891, Mr. Davidson, at the breakfast-table, said
that he dreamed the night before that he had received a postal card from S.
F. W., a friend, saying that he would arrive here (Glenmore, Keene) on
Wednesday of the present week. The same evening arrived a letter from
him to Mr. Davidson announcing that he would leave N. Y. by the boat on
Tuesday night, which would bring him to Keene on Wednesday, according
to the dream. Annie Kent.
Mrs. Dewey writes :—
"Glenmore," June 10th, 1891.
On Tuesday morning, at breakfast, Mr. Davidson said he dreamed that he
had geen a postal card from Mr. Weston, saying that Mr. Weston would be
in the mountains Wednesday. Tuesday afternoon there came a letter from
Mr. Weston saying he would arrive in the mountains Wednesday. He had
not been expected at that time. Alice Chipman Dewey.
L. 896. Dream or Borderland Experience.
The following case was also communicated by Professor Thomas
Davidson, who is well acquainted with the percipient, Mr. Alfred
Hicks, an Englishman living in America.
The following are the facts of a curious incident that occurred to me on
the 22nd of February, 1889.
Dec, 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 17-5
There has always been a keen sympathy, and a great deal of affection
existing between my mother and myself, and early in February I sent over a
letter to England to be given to her on her birthday, the 22nd of February,
I was staying at the time at 64, East llth-street, N.Y. city. Very
early in the morning of that day I was awakened from my sleep, and seemed
to feel quite distinctly my mother's arms folded round me. I, too, seemed to
have clasped her in my arms, and her head was resting on my shoulder. I
seemed to be saying something to her in what I should judge was Italian, but
as I do not know that language I can only give it phonetically. As near as
I can remember, it was " Ma nonna mea."
I was so impressed with the whole occurrence that I arose and looked at
the time. It was just 3.30 a.m. I was quite awake when this seemed to
occur, and did not sleep again that morning, but lay awake thinking it over.
The conclusion I came to was this : that there was a subtle, mental force
by which communications could be made between sympathetic minds, and
to which time and space were no obstacles. I found, by calculating
the difference in times, that at 3.30 here it would be nearly half-past eight
over in London, England, where my mother lives ; and as at the breakfast-
table, on birthdays at home, any gifts that are to be given are duly pre
sented, of course my letter would reach her hands about then. Putting these
facts together, I arrived at the conclusion that when my mother received
my letter she had a great longing to take me in her arms again, and by some
power I was wakened and made aware of that longing.
In my next letter home I told her all about my experience, and of what
I thought was the explanation. A few days ago I received a letter in reply,
and will now quote that part which has reference to this episode.
[March 19th.] " I expect your surmise is right about my waking you on
my birthday. I did not mean to do that, but I did long most intensely to
fold you in my arms again, and look on your face ; but I will be patient and
hopeful. I feel sure there is an unseen power that binds kindred sympathies
a—distance cannot sever the influence. Though the bodies may be far apart,
there is union and communion of the higher and more mysterious part of
our lives, I am fully persuaded."
As for the Italian (if it is such), the only explanation I can guess at is
this : An intimate lady friend of my mother's had just returned from a
visit to Italy, and may have used some such phrase, and possibly it was in
my mother's mind at the time. Alto. Hicks.
64, East llth-street, N.Y. City. 31/3/89.
Mr. Hodgson has seen Mrs. Hicks's original letter. In a later
letter Mr. Hicks writes: "I have never, either before or since, had anyt
such experience as that of which I have written you, and, as you may
guess, I'm not a little interested in finding out the why and how of it."
L. 897. Dream. From the Rev. H. Kendall.
After being a great dreamer all my life, yet never dreaming anything
remarkable, I at last had a dream which seems to me a clear case of thought-
transference. I travelled to Doncaster on Friday afternoon, February 18th,
17G Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec., 1891,
1881, to spend a day with my sister-in-law, the widow of my beloved
brother Thomas, who died there nearly three years before, a retired minister
among the Primitive Methodists. After supper she showed me a book
entitled Heaven our Home, and said that he had read it while retired at
Doncaster. I told her that the Queen and Prince Albert read it a little
before the Prince's death, and were so much interested in it that they sent
a request to the publisher to be furnished with the name of the author, as it
was published anonymously, and it was supplied to them privately. Nothing
more was said on the subject, and soon afterwards we retired to rest.
In the morning, a little before getting up, I had a dream about the anony
mous book. I dreamed that my sister-in-law said to me " Heaven our Home.
was written by a Primitive Methodist minister, and there is a second
edition." I awoke with the impression that this dream was unique in my
experience. I went downstairs with my mind full of it, and at breakfast
soon began to speak of it to my sister-in-law. When I told her what had
come into my head while I was asleep she said immediately, "Why, it
was written by a Primitive Methodist minister : his name is Coulbeck ; he
was travelling at Retford last year." "Reach me that Primitive Methodist
almanack," she said to her niece. There she turned up the name and went
on to say, "Why, he's travelling at Retford still, and there is a second edition,
for I saw a new edition advertised on the cover of the large magazine."
Though I was confident she had not given me this information the
previous night—lest there might have been some unaccountable lapse of
memory on my part—I said to her, "You did not tell me this last night? "
"No," she replied, "for I never thought of it myself till this morning."
" And when did you think of it ? " "In bed, just a little before I got up."
This was at the very time it occurred to me in sleep, and it seemed that the
ideas had been shot through the wall from her brain to mine by some subtle
force or other. This was all the more evident from the fact that the informa
tion conveyed was entirely at variance with my settled belief, which was
that the book in question was written by some Scotch Presbyterian divine—so
much at variance that when I awoke it seemed to me quite laughable. It
was an interesting experience in the way of dreaming coming so late in life ;
but at the same time disappointing, for the information was not important, if
it was true, and I felt certain it was false. . . . being, indeed, what my
sister-in-law believed, but what was not correct. She thought she could let
me into the secret which had been disclosed in confidence to the Queen and
Prince. I told her that I felt certain the book was not written by a Primi
tive Methodist minister as she supposed, and that instead of a second
edition it was more likely there was a fiftieth, and there the subject dropped.
More than a year after this, being again at Doncaster, my sister-in-law
informed me that she had found out her mistake as to the authorship of
Heaven our Home. Mr. Coulbeck, the minister whom she credited with it,
had written another book with a corresponding title, Our Heavenly Home,
and of this a new edition had been issued.
My sister-in-law died at Doncaster, December 19th, 1890. This account
is mainly from notes made shortly after the occurrence.
Darlington, September 24th, 1891. (Signed) Henry Kendall.
Dec., 1891.] Journal of Society for Psychical ResedVeh. Vtl
This case would, of course, have been stronger had Mr. Kendall
dreamed of the name of the minister to whom his sister-in-law attributed
the authorship of the book, but this, as he informs us, he did not do.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To llnt Editor of tlw. Journal of the Society foe Psychical Research.
9, Mohovaia, St. Petersburg.
Dear Sir,— I must apologise for trespassing again upon your space, but
I cannot leave without a reply some of the statements Mrs. Sidgwick
makes in the course of her remarks on my letter.
First of all, I am very sorry indeed that something I said about chance-
coincidence versus telepathy should have shocked Mrs. Sidgwick. But as I
may be included myself among those who either believe in telepathy or are
strongly inclined to believe in it, and at any rate are very anxious to have a
solid basis for such a belief, I may be permitted to say that if the expres
sion I used is offensive to anyone—which I do not at all think it is—it is
offensive to myself first of all. But a belief is one thing and a proof is
another thing ; we may believe in telepathy, but can we say that it is
proved ? I think no one will say that it is ; no one will, or, at least, can
reasonably affirm that the existence of telepathy is not only probable, but
absolutely certain. I have always thought that the census of hallucinations
now in progress had been undertaken for the very purpose of supplying the
mathematical proof hitherto lacking ; I earnestly hope it will, but mean
while this is not yet the case ; in short, it has not yet been proved that
apparently telepathic phenomena cannot be the result of mere chance-
coincidence. We may have moral, we have no mathematical proofs that it
is not so. Now, striving as we believers—or persons anxious to believe—in
telepathy are with this theory of "accident " or "chance "—it seems to mo
that it is a little ungenerous and illogical to fling this very theory into the
face of a new and perplexing fact simply because this fact is opposed to our
preconceived opinions. I am sorry that Mrs. Sidgwick should have mis
understood my position, for no one has more admiration for the work of the
S.P.R. than myself.
I may, however, take this opportunity of saying that in my opinion the
theory of chance-coincidence is applicable to some cases which others will
consider to be of an undoubtedly "supernormal" or " supersensuous "
character ; but I am certainly strongly inclined to think that this theory can
not cover the whole ground.
I have no wish to discuss the matter here any further, nor to deal
separately with Mrs. Sidgwick's criticisms on the different experiments to
which I had referred in my letter. Mrs. Sidgwick considers Mr. Josty to be
an untrustworthy experimenter, but, in my opinion, fails to prove it ; I see
no reason why his bona fides should be suspected, but naturally cannot prove
this too. In Mrs. Sidgwick's opinion (re Prof. Wagner's photograph) " We
have no reason to think that the intelligence . . . which regulated
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec., ism.
(very badly) the exposure of the plates by raps on the floor was unaware of
the prophecy which it helped to fulfil." I fail to see the adequacy of this
explanation, but obviously cannot prove that the appearance on the plate was
of a genuinely supernormal origin. On such lines the controversy would
never end. It is useless, therefore, to pursue it any further ; but before
finishing my letter, may I be allowed to recall the fate which so many
phenomena of different classes had to undergo before being accepted and
sanctioned by official science ? And in our own Society, have we not the
' ' physical phenomena of Spiritualism, " to destroy or weaken the evidence for
which so much labour, energy and talent was spent a few years ago, and
which now are shunned no more, nay, are becoming almost fashionable 1
After the campaign led five years ago against Eglinton's psychography—and
that this campaign has done much good, has been very useful, I am the first
to admit—have we not Prof. Alexander's report on, inter alia, slate-writing
phenomena still more extraordinary than those supposed to occur in
Eglinton's presence printed in our Proceedings without comment 1 Taking
all this into account it seems to me possible that the time may come when
transcendental photography will have passed through the various stages
through which mesmerism and hypnotism have passed already, and telepathy
is passing now ; and, in view of this possibility, is not prudence necessary in
rejecting evidence just as in accepting it ?—Yours faithfully,
Michael Solovoy.
November 6/13, 1891.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir,—I believe that Mr. Solovoy and I are in substantial agreement
about chance coincidence as an explanation of psychical phenomena, but
he has not altogether understood my objection to his previous remarks; and
in speaking of those "anxious" to believe in telepathy, " striving " with
this theory of accident, I cannot but think his mode of expressing himself
likely to lead to serious misunderstanding.
A scientific attitude of mind requires that wo should not be anxious to
believe one thing more than another—but simply to discover the truth ; and
if chance coincidence is an adequate explanation of any phenomena it should
be cheerfully accepted as such. Mr. Gurney's investigations seem to show
that it is not an adequate explanation of, for instance, apparitions occurring
at the time of the death of the persons seen. It was thought, however,
that a more extensive investigation would make it clearer whether this is so
or not, and accordingly we are trying to carry out such an investigation in
the present census of hallucinations. But there is in this no "striving " on
behalf of one theory against another ; there is only an impartial examination
into the facts. And if the present investigation confirms Mr. Gurney's it does
not follow that it would be either ungenerous or illogical to suppose that
chance will account for certain other phenomena, such as the appearances on
Dr.Williams'photographic plates, whose alleged frequency and definiteness do
not seem to be beyond what accident might be expected to bring about.
With regard to tho " physical phenomena of Spiritualism," Mr. Solovoy,
Dec., 1891.] Journal of Society for Pyschical Research. 179
I think, mistakes the position both of the Society and of those members of
it who have written on the subject. Indeed, I do not know what Mr.
Solovoy exactly means by destroying or weakening the evidence. That
might be done by misrepresentation or by physically destroying notes or
records, but not by criticism. And as I said in 1886, in Proceedings, Vol.
IV., p. 74 : "It is not because I disbelieve in the physical phenomena of
Spiritualism but because at present I think it more probable than not
that such things occasionally occur, that I am interested in estimating
the evidence for them." From the foundation of the Society the subject
has been before it as one to be investigated, and it has never been
"shunned." It is true that it has been very difficult to find opportuni
ties of investigating except with mediums who had tricked and who
failed to produce evidence that did not depend on their honesty. It is
true that Mr. Davey showed that we could not trust our own observation
of phenomena such as those presented by these mediums for investigation, if
they desired to deceive us, and that therefore we must either have simpler
conditions depending less on our observation, or mediums of unimpeached
honesty. But all this does not disprove the possibility of genuine pheno
mena of the kind, nor would anything that has been said be vitiated by any
future evidence that may be obtained. The evidence lately brought forward
by Mr. Myers, though too small in amount to carry conviction—the more so
that much of it is reported from recollection long after the event—has at
least the merit that there is no known reason to distrust the honesty of any
of the persons concerned.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwiok,
NOTICE.
Since the publication of the last number of the Journal, and ill
accordance with the notice published in it, several hypnotic meetings
have been held on Wednesdays at 8 p.m. in the rooms of the Society
at 1 9, Buckingham-street, Strand, which have been attended by a some
what larger number than could be quite conveniently received, from
among our Members and Associates along with a few friends. Their
object has been twofold, viz. : (1) to ascertain those among our Members
and Associates and their immediate friends who have good hypnotic
sensibilities and to gain any knowledge and experience of other good
subjects which they may be able to afford ; and (2) to make it easier
to some Members and Associates who have had as yet no suitable
opportunities for observing hypnotism to study its phenomena under
the convenient conditions of a small meeting of friends.
After Christmas, 1891, the Society will resume the use of the rooms
adjoining its Library, which are at present let, and with the greater
space thus available, which will be independent of the use of the
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec.,1891.
library in the afternoon by readers, there will be a good opportunity of
testing with fresh subjects some of the more important conclusions
drawn from previous experiments on thought-transference, &c, which
were chiefly carried on at Brighton ; and it is sincerely to be hoped
that many of the Members and Associates will have no hesitation in
allowing their capacities as hypnotic subjects to be estimated by careful
trial in a small company, from which no unpleasant consequences of
any sort need be feared. As it will never be desirable to have such
meetings of very large size, and as various times of meeting may be
convenient besides Wednesdays at 8 p.m., we should request those
Members and Associates who desire to attend to communicate their
wishes to G. A. Smith, Esq., Society for Psychical Research, 19, Buck
ingham-street, Strand, London, W.C.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last list {"Journal" for Jidy).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Kingsbury, G. C, M.D., The Practico of Hypnotic Suggestion,
Bristol, 1891
Berillon (Dr. Edgar), Hypnotisme et Suggestion Paris, 1891
Despine (Prosper), Etude Scientifique sur le Somnambulisme
Paris, 1880
Noizet (General), Memoire sur le Somnambulisme et le Magne-
tisme Animal Paris, 1852
Regnier (Dr. L. R.), Hypnotisme et Croyances Anciennes Paris, 1891
Wetterstrand (Dr. Otto G.), Der Hypnotisnius und seine
Anwendung in der praktischen Medicin Vienna, 1891
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Browne (Hugh J.), The Holy Truth London, 1876
Ghost Stories (Real), The Christmas Number of Beview of
Reviews. Edited by W. T. Stead London, 1891
OliphatJt (Laurence), Sympneumata: ur, Evolutionary Forces now
Active in Man London, 1885*
Perry (Professor John, D.Sc., F.R.S.), Spinning Tops. ..London, 1890t
Rhea: ASuggestion. By "Pascal Germain " London, 1890+
Riddles of the Sphinx. A Study in the Philosophy of Evolution.
By "A Troglodyte." London, 1891J
Yorkshire Spiritual Telegraph, Vols. III. and IV Keighley, 1856-7
* Presented by Miss Porter. t Presented by Colonel l'Vaser.
t Presented by th Author.
No. LXXXVI.—Vol. V. January, 1892.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
FAOI
New Members and Associates 1S1
Meeting of the Council 1S2
Experiments in Thought-Transference—
I. By Mr. Kirk 1S2
II. By Mr. Selous 1S4
III. By Mrs. Shield 18s»
Cases Received by the Literary Committee . . . . . . . . . . 1 91
Indian Conjuring and Hypnotism 195
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBER.
Ewing, Lieut. -Colonel A., The Lawn, Taunton.
ASSOCIATES.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Davis, Albert E., L.R.C.S. (Ed.), L.R.C.P.I., 20, Great George-
square, Liverpool.
Elliott, Rev. W. A., Matebele Land, via Mafeking, British
Bechuana Land, South Africa.
Gilcrikst, W. F., A.I.C.E. (Ireland), Sligo.
Gray, Rev. A., M.A., 21, Shakespeare-road, Bedford.
Green, Conrad T., 33, Grange-mount, Birkenhead.
Hodding, Miss, Selwood House, Barnard's-cross, Salisbury.
Leighton, Miss, 19, Wilton-place, London, S.W.
ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Ayer, J. C, Puritan Club, 50, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Beale, C. W., Arden, North Carolina, U.S.A.
Carr, Robert S., Hamilton, Ohio, U.S.A.
Cutting, Hiram A., M.D., Cutting's Free Library, Lunenburg,
Ver.
Edmunds, Albert J., 553, North 16th-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Errain, Mrs. Charlotte, 118, East 26th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Knowles, Edward R., West Sutton, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee, U.S.A.
Thaw, A. Blair, M.D., Sparkill, Rockland Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1892.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
An interim Meeting of the Council was held at 19, Buckingham-
street, W.C., on December 23rd, to consider proposals for election to
membership in the Society, received since the meeting on the 4th.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer, and Messrs. F. Podmore, S. C. Scott, and
R. Pearsall Smith were present. Mr. R. P. Smith was voted to the
chair.
The Minutes of last Meeting were read and signed as correct. One
new Member and eight new Associates, whose names and addresses
are given above, were elected. The election of nine new Associates
of the American Branch was recorded. No other business was
taken.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
I. By Mr. Kirk.
(L. 863 Continued. See Journal for July, 1891.)
We have received from Mr. Joseph Kirk accounts of four more
experiments in thought-transference with Miss G. , completing his
series witli her to present date. We give here an abbreviated
account of them. Mr. Kirk's fuller description can be seen at the
rooms of the Society.
(1) Made on May 23rd, 1891, in daylight while Mr. Kirk and Miss G. were
both waiting at a railway station. The object looked at by Mr. Kirk was a
white card 3 by 4f inches with three bold black parallel sloping lines on it
not extending to the edges of the card. Two trials were made. The first,
in which Miss G. was in the waiting-room and Mr. Kirk outside, was given
up because the light was too trying for Mr. Kirk's eyes. For the second
trial with the same diagram Mr. Kirk sat in an outer waiting-room and
Miss G. in an inner one out of sight of each other, but with doors open between
them. After 5 minutes an interruption occurred, and Mr. Kirk broke off.
Miss G. said the diagram was just developing when they stopped. She
saw clearly outlined and apparently about three feet from her eyes the exact
shape of the card in a faint bluish luminosity, while something bright, in
white light, had just begun to appear on one end of it. The luminous shape
seen by Miss G. appeared to her to be double the size of the card Mr. Kirk
looked at. Mr. Kirk remarks that he sees the after-image of black in daylight
as intensely white.
(2) The next experiment was on May 25th, 1891, in Mr. Kirk's house ;
agent and percipient being at a distance from each other of about 11 yards,
in two different rooms on the same floor with two closed doors between them.
Miss G. sat in the darkest corner of a nearly dark room. The object looked
at by Mr. Kirk was a black board 17 by 12 inches, with a round white disc
in the middle on which was the letter A in black. This was set up against
Jan., 1892. Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 183
the wall with a bull's-eye lantern opposite to it, and Mr. Kirk sat a little to
one side to be out of the way of the lantern. He thinks that his position
prevented the light being equally reflected towards him from all parts of the
letter and caused the left side of it to be more clearly transferred. Miss G.
" saw a disc faintly luminous, with bright dashes in centre disappearing and
reappearing with great rapidity." She drew what she saw as a circle with
three strokes below the centre and approximately converging towards a point
near it. These strokes do not reach the edge, and the two outer ones make
an angle of about 45 deg. with each other, the middle and longest one being
between them. The analogy between original and reproduction is obvious.
The time occupied in this experiment was, Mr. Kirk says, the longest he has
known to occur with Miss G. It was about 15 minutes before she began to
see anything. This experiment at a short distance was made in order to test
the effect of distance on clearness of visualisation by the percipient.
(3) This experiment was made by daylight, Mr. Kirk being in the Isle
of Wight and Miss G. at Plumstead. The object looked at was a black
card 3 by 4} inches, with the letter A, about 2 inches high, cut out in white
paper pasted on to it, the strokes of the A being over J inch wide. Mr. Kirk
noticed that the after-images of the black were intensely white, and the
after-images of the white letter of a kind of smoky luminosity. By lamp
light he sees the after-image of black as a luminous yellow, and of white
as a bluish shade sometimes approaching to purple. Miss G., sitting in the
dark, saw " a faintly luminous appearance about 12 inches across, some
times settling into a smaller square more shapely defined on the right side
than the left, quivering brightness in centre, but too undefined to describe."
The card looked at by Mr. Kirk was placed at right angles to the window
with the right-hand side towards the window, which may, he thinks, account
for what Miss G. saw being more sharply defined on the right side.
(4) In the next experiment, made on June 4th, 1891, from 11.15 to
11.45 p.m., Mr. Kirk intended to impress from his house three percipients
at once—namely, Miss G. at her own house at Plumstead, and Mr. and Mrs.
G. A. Smith at Brighton. Mr. Smith was, however, unable to sit, and Mrs.
Smith had no visual impression—although, as Mr. Kirk says, he gave each
percipient a fair alternate trial of a few minutes each, finding it impossible
to locate himself in two places at the same moment. He used three diagrams.
For the first ten minutes he looked at a black figure resembling a Maltese
cross with a ring round it, or a wheel with 4 broad wedge-shaped spokes,
considerably broader than the intervening white spaces. Then he looked at
a white oval enamelled door-plate, with black figure 3 on it, held against a
black notebook ; and thirdly he looked at a figure of a man's spread-out
hand, full size, drawn in black on white paper. During the last 20 minutes
he glanced alternately from one of these figures to the other, but in discussing
the result he tells us that when he had once looked at the hand its after
image practically obliterated the second diagram. It will be remembered
that Mr. Kirk sees after-images to an unusual extent.
Miss G.'s report is as follows:—"5/6/91. Sat last night from 11.15 to
11.45. After a few minutes wavy clouds appeared [these are drawn as a
group of roundish objects], followed by a pale bluish light very bright in
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1892.
centre. [This is drawn of an indefinite oval shape with roundish white spot
in centre.] Near the end of experiment saw a larger luminous form, lasting
only a moment but reappearing three or four times ; it had lines or spikes
about half an inch wide darting from it in varied positions."
We reproduce Miss G.'s sketches of this last impression, the
resemblance of which to an outspread hand is, we think, unmistak
able.
Mr. Kirk has also tried a series of experiments with Mr. and Mrs.
G. A. Smith at Brighton as percipients, and another with a lady at
Cambridge. The conditions under which these were tried were
probably difficult, not only because of the distance between agent
and percipient but because Mr. Kirk was not personally acquainted
either with the lady at Cambridge or with Mrs. Smith. It is not,
therefore, surprising that the success was small.
Mr. Kirk would be very glad to hear of any other ladies or gentle
men willing to experiment with him as percipients, and readers of
the Journal will not need to be told that he will be found a careful,
conscientious and painstaking experimenter. He will also be glad
to correspond with anyone wishing to inquire further into the
phenomena.
II. By Mr. Edmund Selous. (L. 927.)
[In sending us the following account of his experiments Mr. Selous says :
" The words of the percipients were taken down as uttered, or at the con
clusion of each, and read out to the others present. Except in the one
unessential point given, we were all in agreement. The general account was
written out the next day, generally in the morning or very shortly after."
In Mr. Selous' account of the experiments in the family of Pfarrer Schupp, the
words of the percipient are given in German. These we have translated.]
October 30«ft, 1890.
Two examples of thought-transference.
(1) Percipient, Hermann Schupp (age 17), second son of the Herr Pfarrer
Schupp, Sonnenberg, bei Wiesbaden, in whose family I am now staying.
Agents, the Herr Pfarrer Schupp, Agnes Sclrapp (his daughter), Julius
Schupp (his eldest son), and myself. The percipient sat blindfolded in a
corner of the room, whilst we all sat round the table. I then placed [open]
on the table a small folding magnifying lens, the handle and part enclosing
Jan., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 185
the glass being made of some black, shiny substance. We all looked at
this and tried to concentrate our thoughts upon it. After a little while
the percipient said : " Is it black ? " then, " Is it round ? " then " Trans
parent ? " The Pfarrer then took the lens and held it up so that the light
of the lamp which was on the table fell upon the glass. Shortly after
wards the percipient said : " It is bright," and then, "It is a pair of
spectacles." He also said that it was thin towards the ends or edges. I
cannot remember the exact German words, but this I think was the sense.
During this experiment the percipient sat blindfolded in the corner, sideways
to the gazers. It would, therefore, have been physically possible for him to
have shifted the bandage and stolen a glance at the table. At its conclusion
he gave his word that he had not seen the object, and I have not myself the
slightest suspicion that he did so. I merely feel bound to mention the exact
conditions.
(2) In the second experiment the percipient, blindfolded as before, sat
at the piano, with his back turned to the table, in which position, to the best
of my knowledge and belief, he remained the whole of the time. I then put
one of my slippers on the table. This time there were present only the Herr
Pfarrer Schupp, Matilda Schupp (his daughter), and myself. The percipient
was silent rather longer than before, and, according to my own memory,
began by saying " Was it black and round ? " so that I thought he still had
the mental image of the lens before him. The Pfarrer, however, contradicts
this and his daughter, Matilda Schupp, supports him. They are both positive
that after the subject said " Black " he went on to say, " But not quite
black, more red," or words to that effect. As the percipient sometimes
muttered in a low tone, and as I had only an eight months' knowledge of
German, their evidence, besides being two to one, is much stronger than
mine. As to the continuation, however, there is no disagreement. But I
must first mention that my slipper was of a soft, brown, corduroy-like
material, and inside bright red and shiny. The percipient now went on to
enumerate, one by one, almost every quality belonging to it, thus : " It is
red," " It is hollow," " It is soft," " It is red and brown," " It is smooth,"
" It is dark underneath." (Where the slipper touched the cloth it was in
shadow thrown by itself.) " It is longish," " It is pointed," " It has a point
in front." I then said : " You have said quite rightly, but you must say what
it is," and the Pfarrer at the same time said : " But what is it, then ? "
After a moment or two the percipient said " It is , it is——," then
paused, and at last said : " It is a shoe."
October 3 1st, 1890. (In the ecening.)
Experiment in taste-transference. Percipient, Hermann Schupp, seated
as in last case and blindfolded. I first told him that this time it was not to
see things but something quite different. I then took his left hand in my
right and put some salt, which I had between my left thumb and finger, in my
mouth. At first the percipient seemed to be seeing something, then said that
it was " quite indefinite," and so forth. I then told him that what I wanted
to transfer was more in the nature of a " feeling " (Geffihl). He continued to
say that it was undefined and wished to take off the bandage and give it up.
But we pressed him to continue and after a little while longer he said, " Is
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1892.
it a taste ? " The Pfarrer said, " Yes, that was right, but he must say what
taste." He then said, first, that it was " bitter " and then "salt." I had
noticed whilst holding his hand that from a little before the time when he
said, " Is it a taste ? " he kept moving his lips about in just the same way in
fact as I was obliged to do with the salt in my mouth. After the experiment,
when I remarked that the salt had made me thirsty and drank some water,
he said that it had made him thirsty, too, and he also drank some. There
were some unsatisfactory circumstances of bustle and whispering about this
experiment, but nothing, as far as I could observe, to give a clue, and as my
eyes were fixed on percipient the whole time I could see that the bandage
was in proper position, <fec., throughout.
Note.—The occasion of whispering was that I wanted some more salt tot
put in my mouth and made signs to Julius to this effect. When he came up
I whispered to him but in as low a tone as possible and carefully not men
tioning the word. In the process of giving me a little more, a few grains
were spilt upon the floor, there being no carpet. I certainly heard this my
self as it was just beside me. Whether the percipient, with me between him
and the falling salt, and the handkerchief covering his ears, could also have
heard it I cannot, of course, be certain, but I should not think so. It must
be remembered, too, that he had said "taste" and "bitter" (which he
repeated afterwards) before this occurred.
November 4th, 1890. (In the evening.)
Percipient, Hermann Schupp. Agents, Herr Pfarrer Schupp, Julius
Schupp, Herr Franz (a relative who had called and wished to see it), and
myself.
The object—a Swedish box of matches—was laid on the table, and all
looked steadily at it whilst the subject sat blindfolded at the piano with his
back to the circle. On this occasion answers were given—always, as it
happened, " Yes "—to the questions or affirmations of the percipient. I
should much have preferred it otherwise, but I was no controller of the con
ditions. The percipient after a minute or two said : " It is four-cornered."
("Yes.") "It is blue." ("Yes.") " Blue and yellow, is it not ? " ("Yes.")
" Also red." (" Impregnable " was written across the box in large red
letters.) ("Yes.") "And brown." ("Yes.") "There is writing on it."
("Yes.") " Does it not look like a little box ? " ("Yes.") " It is a match
box." ("Yes.")
Herr Franz, who was very sceptical and had been much surprised,
suggested that percipient had heard the matches rattle as I took them out of
my pocket to lay on the table (the percipient at that time sitting blindfolded
at piano). I consider this impossible as I took them out so softly that they
did not rattle at all ; the box was nearly full, and, moreover, I sat the
farthest away of the whole circle from the percipient, at the other side of the
room. Herr Franz was also under the impression that I had taken the box
out of my pocket as I went by the percipient—still sitting blindfolded—to
get to my place, but this is a mistake. I feel positive I did not do so. As
these remarks were made I feel bound not to suppress them, but I attach no
value to them.
Note.—Personally, percipient's word is amply sufficient to satisfy me,
Jan., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 187
but my rule was and always would be to act as if the contrary were the case
Herr Franz was quite unsupported in his opinions. I think he was so astonished
that he took refuge in them, by force, as it were.—November, 1891.
November 10th, 1890. (At the Pfarrhaus, Sonnenberg ; between 6 and 7 p.m.)
(1) Percipient, Mariechen Schupp (a little girl just 12 years old). Agents,
Matilda Schupp, Agnes Schupp, and myself. (I was the principal agent,
the others not being very attentive.)
Percipient blindfolded in chair in parlour, with her back turned to
adjoining room. Agents in adjoining room at table. Door between the two
rooms open and percipient in full view of one of the agents, Agnes Schupp.
I myself had my back turned. I first took out a one-pfennig piece and laid
it softly on the table, but immediately afterwards Agnes Schupp moved a
large pair of scissors towards me as being better. I then put away the
pfennig. Shortly afterwards Matilda Schupp took away the scissors to use
them. I then put back the pfennig, but it being explained in pantomime
(Matilda Schupp was sewing and did not take much interest) that the scissors
were wanted they were again put back, and I held the pfennig during the
rest of the experiment shut up in my left hand. The percipient after a very
little while said, " It shines like silver," " It is round " (the handles of the
scissors ended in two circles of steel large enough for the thumbs to go through),
" Rather long," " Pointed," " Hard," and on being pressed to say what it
was, she said, " It is a pair of scissors."
A good deal of incredulity was shown over this on account, I believe, of the
percipient being such a volatile child and the success being quite unexpected.
It was asserted that she must have seen it, &c., but Agnes Schupp, who had
been facing her the whole time, declared that she had never turned her head,
and she certainly did not do so during any of the occasions when I turned
round and looked at her, which were frequent. Moreover, my whole body
must have completely hidden the object on the table, which was put in front
of me. The percipient, in the course of loudly denying these accusations,
which were indeed more the outcome of surprise than anything else, said,
to my great surprise, " I thought first of a Pfennig." I consider it impossible
that she could have seen this minute coin lying, as it was, almost under me
on the table, and hidden by my whole bulk.
(2) Percipient, agents, and conditions same as before, except that Hermann
Schupp came several times in and out, and walked, once I think, through the
room in which percipient was sitting so that he could certainly have told her
what the object was had he chosen. He gave his word that he had not done
so, which satisfies me, but I am bound to give the whole of the facts. The
object placed on the table was a large bell, or rather an imitation of a bell, in
wood, covered with a sort of silver glaze, which used to hang against the wall
by a long silk ribbon. There was some painting round the outside, and the
hammer was wanting. The percipient, after some minutes, said (with short
pauses between each sentence): "It shines." "It too shines like silver."
" It is hollow inside." " It can be hung up." " It is broad at the bottom and
rather pointed at the top." " And round." " It is made of wood." "There
is something bright coloured painted on it." " It has a silk ribbon." " It
looks like a bell."
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1892.
Note.—I have not the same confidence in above percipient, she being
only a child and a very volatile one. But I consider the " Pfennig " incident
unassailable ; and as regards the scissors, supposing she had here obtained
some clue, I do not think it at all likely that she would have said "It is
round." She would probably have thought of the general shape of the whole
instrument, which does not at all suggest roundness. On the other hand, it
struck me as odd at the time that she should at once have denned the
" ribbon " as a " silk ribbon." Still, this was just at the end when the idea
of the bell, which she knew well, had probably entered her mind, and the
silk ribbon would, of course, be a part of it. " It can be hung up " is also
curious as being more like an abstract idea and may perhaps suggest knowing
or guessing what it was.—November, 1891.
November 7th, 1890. (In the evening, at Leberberg, 3, Wiesbaden.)
(1) Percipient, my wife. Agents, Miss Ramsey (staying with my wife)
and myself.
Object placed on table, a green glass smelling-bottle. The percipient,
who sat blindfolded, with her back to the table, said " Round " and " Green,"
but could not go any further.
(2) Conditions the same exactly.
Object on table, a Japanese photographic frame of metal in shape of
Japanese fan, the oblong square for photograph being in the upper or fan
end [and having a raised bronze line round its edge]. All round the square
and covering surface of the fan, raised figures, mostly in bronze, of birds,
flowers, &c. At base or handle end of fan, a small hole, through which was
threaded a bright red silk cord with tassel. In the square opening a photo
graph of our little boy, aged 3. [Mr. Selous sends a drawing of this fan.]
Agent said : " Oh, I see a plate." " I see a square." " Something like
a plate." " Shining and ornamented all over." " Something like an owl on
it." (Owl not included amongst birds on frame, but the round staring face
in photograph might well suggest one.) "A square with a bright line all
round, like gilt," " A bright piece of red in one part."
This last assertion was repeated at intervals several times, the brightness
of the red and its confinement to one spot being always alluded to. Could
not name the object. After seeing it, percipient said that she had seen little
men, such as children draw, in the air but had thought it such nonsense that
she said nothing. (The photograph was a standing-up one, in half-petticoats,
one arm being lost in shadow ; no cap.—November, 1891.)
(3) A failure. Tried after Miss Ramsey had gone to bed.
Note.—I consider it a favourable point in the two first experiments that
the object was not named ; it shows that the percipient did not uncon
sciously guess at the various things in the room.
November 9th, 1890. (In the evening. Leberberg, 3, Wiesbaden.)
Agents, percipient, conditions, &c., as before. Two attempts ; both
failed completely.
November 10th, 1890. (In the evening, at Leberberg, 3, Wiesbaden. )
(1) Percipient, my wife. Agents, Miss Ramsey and myself. (The con
ditions were always the same.—November, 1891.)
Jan.. 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 189
Object, a box of dominoes, the lid—of which I have a drawing—orna
mented with figures of dominoes, seven in all, and little men looking out
from behind them. The dominoes were six-one, one-four, four-six, six-six,
six-three, three-five, five-two.
Percipient, after a little while said : " I see a collection of little dots,
nothing else. " " I believe it's a domino." " Oh, I see a double-six." "Such
lots of these little dots." " Like lots of little dominoes—whole collec
tions of them." "But quite small." "I should think it's the lid of the
dominoes." " Clouds of double-sixes." Said, after removing handkerchief,
but without having turned round or seen the object, that she saw a six-four.
Note.—The lid of the box of dominoes was surmised from the mental
vision of the dominoes themselves, for nothing else was seen.
(2) Percipient, agents, and conditions the same.
Object, a silver thimble.
Percipient said, " Oh, I see something that cuts, either a knife or scissors."
" It looks to me like light on the blade of something." " Oh, it's still the
dominoes. Still thinking of the first one." It was then given up, but on
seeing the thimble, which was studded all over with minute depressions,
percipient said, " Oh, the dots of course. It was not the dominoes, but the
dots on the thimble."
Note.—The thimble had been put down first, but just before beginning
Miss Ramsey laid down a small, pearl-handled knife as a substitute, which I
rejected, and we continued with the thimble. But this knife was not open.
(3) Conditions as before.
Object, a glass bottle with cork in it. Failed entirely, and percipient
said that she had not the feeling. Some trials with Miss Ramsey and myself
as percipients were failures.
Note.—This last set of experiments had the advantage of being quieter,
and being undertaken in a more serious and investigative spirit.
Edmund Selotjs.
Barton Mills, near Mildenhall, Suffolk,
November 22nd, 1891.
I have read the account of those experiments in which I was the per
cipient, and it is quite correct.
November 22nd, 1891. F. M. Selous.
III. By Mrs. Shield. (L. 928.)
The following experiments were made by Mrs. Shield on May
28th, 1888. We have had the notes, taken at the time, by us for
some time, but have waited to print them in connection with other
similar experiments. The percipients were two young servants, P.
and B. Mrs. Shield herself acted as agent throughout, and in the
first four experiments as sole agent alone with the percipient. In
most of the remaining experiments one of the girls acted as agent
with Mrs. Shield, while the other acted as percipient. It seemed to
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1892.
make no difference whether Mrs. Shield was sole agent or not. The
percipient was blindfolded. Mrs. Shield stood within a few feet all
the time but not near enough to touch the percipient.
Percipient. Thing to be done thought of by Mrs. Shield. Result.
B. To fetch a gentleman's boot from outer The pair brought
room. quickly.
»» To fetch the long broom from outer room. Done quickly.
To fetch a small boot from under a table The pair brought
in another room. with brief delay.
P. To bring a horn.
Done correctly and
quickly.
'a To bring a certain breakfast cup. Done correctly and
quickly.
1» To bring a certain dish cover. Done correctly and
quickly.
1» To sit on the rug. Failure.
To say what Mrs. Shield held in her hand Failure.
(a half-crown taken from her pocket).
B. To guess the number 24.
Rightatfirstguess.
" 18. First guess 80,
second guess 17.
»» 52. First guess 53,
second guess 52.
P. 30. First guess 32,
second guess 30.
11 66. First guess 60,
second guess 69,
third guess 66.
" To guess the name Polly. Guessed Mary with
some delay.
B. „ „ Susan. Guessed Susan
quickly.
At this point the mistress of the two servants came in by request,
and several things were tried without any success. Then Mrs.
Shield wrote, " Place your hand on my right foot," and B. did so at
once, asking, " Was I to take the boot off? " The lateness of the
hour prevented further experiments that evening. Mrs. Shield sur
mises that the little flutter occasioned by the entrance of the mistress
was just overcome when the last experiment was tried.
Subsequently Mr. Myers was present when similar experiments
were tried by Mrs. Shield with the same two girls, but they failed
completely. She tried again with them alone afterwards, and tells
Jan., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 191
us that she was again successful, but we have not got the particulars
of this later experiment.
In December, 1888, Mrs. Shield had an opportunity of experi
menting with a schoolmistress, Mrs. C, and her daughter A., aged
11. On December 13th she had tried the willing-game with this
family with great success and in some cases without contact. After
describing this, Mrs. Shield continues: —
Next day I found only Mrs. C. and A. knitting, the maid ironing near,
but not included in our conversation. I was provided with fresh objects,
and gave A. four numbers, of which two, 43 and 45, were said quickly and of
the others one figure of each was right. Mrs. C. had headache and I gave
her but two ; the first was right : "I saw the 84 dancing up and down before
my eyes," she remarked ; the second failed (we had only one try at each). I
held a ring in my glove and A. named it at once. "It is wonderful, but I
think it must be chance, for why couldn't I see the second number ? " was
Mrs. C.'s remark.
The C. family tried by themselves but " Could do nothing worth
mentioning"; and when on a later day Mrs. Shield tried with A.,
the little girl ' ' was nervous and could do nothing either with or
without contact." Mrs. Shield wrote her account of these experi
ments on December 27th, 1888.
Accounts of other experiments made by Mrs. Shield will be found
in the Journal for December, 1887.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
We give two instances of what may have been spontaneous
thought-transference, each of a kind difficult to make strong eviden
tially in any special case, but alleged often to occur in a more or less
marked degree. It is to be desired that instances of both kinds
should be carefully noted, and that those who experience the first
kind—an apparent transference of a definite idea from one person
to another,—should try whether they can obtain the same result .by
experiment.
L. 898. Transference of idea.
The following account appeared in the Boston Evening Tran
script, about May, 1890: —
" Do you believe in thought-transference ? " the master of a classical school
asked the Listener the other day. The Listener said that he had been com
pelled by facts within his knowledge to believe that thoughts, pictures of
objects, and even words sometimes pass between two different minds, with
out verbal communication. " Well, here is a curious case," said the master.
" To-day I was hearing a class in Greek, out of this book. A young man
was translating from the Greek, and my eyes and thoughts were a line or
two ahead of him on the page, translating for my own guidance. The
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1892.
boy who was reciting was not particularly bright in Greek, nor noted for
original or pat renderings. Well, I came—a line at least in advance of him
—to the phrase, ' The Spartans did not look around,' which refers to the
conduct of the men of Sparta in a certain emergency in battle. The verb in
the sentence is perieidon, and the lexicon gives ' To look around ' as the
meaning. As I read, to myself, it occurred to me for the first time that
' stand by idle ' would be a better rendering in that place than ' look around.'
But, of course, I said nothing—it only passed through my mind. The pupil
read on. ' The Spartans,' he read, ' did not stand by idle, but ' ' Stop,
B.,' said I ; ' When did that rendering come into your head ? ' ' Just now,
sir,' he answered, ' as I was reading.' ' Then you didn't translate it so when
you got your lesson ? ' ' No, sir.' ' How did you happen to think of it ? '
' Why it came into my head.' "
The master was quite sure that his own thought had suggested the phrase
to the boy, who, though he may not be inclined to distinguish himself in the
classics, is evidently a youth of a sensitive and receptive temperament.
On asking the master in question for confirmation, Mr. Hodgson
received the following letter : —
Boston, April 9th, 1891.
Dear Sir,—The passage in Herodotus containing the word trepieliov
concerning the translation of which as "did not stand by idle," you asked
me, occurs in Herodotus, VI., 108 :—
" And when the Thebans perceived this, they marched against the Plataeans,
wherefore the Athenians went to the assistance of the latter. When now
these were on the point of joining battle, the Corinthians, who happened
to be on the spot, did not stand by idle (ov treputSov) but reconciled the two
parties, and when both submitted the matter to them, they settled the
boundaries of the district as follows."
A boy who was only fair in Greek, but who had a good command of English,
was translating ; as he came to Ttput&ov, it occurred to me that " stand by
idle " would be here a good rendering of the word ; I had never known of
its being so rendered before. The boy hesitated for an instant at the word,
and I looked at him and he at once went on, " did not stand by idle." It
seemed to me a singular coincidence.
The above is an account of the occurrence of which, some time since, you
requested information. My impression that the incident took place later in
the year than it really did, prevented me from looking in the right place for
the word ; we came across the passage some little time ago this year, and I
am sorry not to have given you the account before.
Hoping that you have not been inconvenienced by my delay.
Wm. Nichols.
L. 899. Emotional impression.
The following may be an instance of a disturbed state of mind in
one person communicating itself to another. It is, of course, diffi
cult to estimate the importance in any special instance of feelings of
the sort here described in the case of a person who is, as she tells us,
Jan., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 193
liable to be strongly attracted and repelled by people. But accord
ing to the account, this seems to have been a very unusually marked
instance of it, and one certainly justified by the event. The account
(which we give in an abbreviated form) is sent to us by Mrs. Joseph
Pfirshing, of Chicago.
During the winter of 1889-90 a company of men and women were in the
habit of meeting at my home, for the purpose of cultivating the German
sides of their brains. We called ourselves simply "The German Club,"
and met whenever the spirit moved us. We were a very congenial circle.
One day one of my neighbours came to me, saying that she had rented
her house furnished to a German family. The gentleman who had signed
the lease was named L. He had been for some time book-keeper for a whole
sale merchant, and had invited his mother and sister, who lived in Berlin,
to spend the winter with him. The elder of the two ladies knew no English,
excepting the one sad word, " homesick " ; the daughter, a beautiful girl
and a singer, had acquired some knowledge of our tongue at a "pension "
in Germany, and " would I call ? "
I promised to do so at my earliest convenience, and soon found an
opportunity to keep my word. I only met Fraulein L. I spent a pleasant
half-hour, and before I left I had the promise of the daughter that the family
would meet the German Club at its next session.
Only the ladies joined us, bringing regrets from the son, who, they said,
was busy with the firm's books, as the year was drawing to a close. This
happened several times, when one fateful evening he came.
As it was a very cold night, I had stepped to the door the moment the
bell rang, and the family were the last to arrive. Mother and daughter
came in first, followed closely by their attendant. A quick introduction took
place in the vestibule, and then the ladies hastened upstairs to lay off their
wraps. As the young man stepped into the hall I closed the door, and with
out having clearly seen his face a terrible fear took possession of me. I
motioned him to hang his coat and hat on the rack, and as he passed under
the hall light I saw a handsome young fellow of perhaps twenty-three. He
was tall, fair, blue-eyed, red-cheeked—a Goth. I stood perfectly still,
dreading his coming near me again, dreading to introduce him to the others.
I got through the ceremony somehow, and his mother and sister appearing,
conversation became general.
Instinct made me keep away from the stranger, but a terrible fascination
compelled me to watch his every motion. He seemed restless, changed
chairs, and once he rose and began to examine some Christmas and New
Year cards I had piled up in a basket. As he handled things precious to me
I felt like screaming, " Don't touch them ; they are mine ! " A German
book I had given my husband was passed about. On the fly-leaf I had written
this verse :—
"We should fill the hours with the sweetest things,
If we had but a day.
We should drink alone at the purest springs,
In our upward way."
When he took it I could scarcely sit still. I saw him carefully read the
written words, quickly close the book, rise and walk to the far end of the
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1892.
parlour. Here his sister joined him, and as the two stood together I thought
what an unusually handsome couple they were. The same Northern type of
beauty ; she fitted to be the mother of a race ; he a soldier in physique and
bearing. Soon we were gathered about the tea-table ; young L. next his
mother, I, diagonally opposite with the same dread of close contact. I saw
her stroke his cheek. The colour forsook it for a moment and he made no
answering caress. It was near midnight when the club dispersed, and all
said, especially the ladies, " We have had such a happy time again with you."
When Mr. Pfirshing and I were alone I burst out : " How glad I am it is
over. That young man has made me perfectly wretched. He must never,
never come here again. I have been almost frantic all the evening. From
the moment he stepped into the hall I have been obliged to hold on to myself,
for feer of screaming. Four hours! and now my headaches beyond endurance.
The club must be given up ; it is the last time we meet."
Of course my husband thought me extremely silly, and no doubt I did
appear so. He had noticed nothing unusual. Everyone had had a good
time ; conversation, pictures, music, had made a charming evening as far
as he could see, and I was nervous or tired, and sleep was all that was neces
sary ; so upstairs we went.
The next morning brought a heavy head and a heavier heart. T was still
unhappy, and I could not tell why. One week I pined, and at the end of
that time I woke up, saying, "Well, this morning the load is gone. I am
so glad I feel like myself."
I spent several hours in necessary housework, and in the afternoon I
went down town for the mere pleasure of going, a thing I did not often
indulge in. I visited the picture stores, the book stores, the china shops,
and, getting restle.ss again, I strayed into the Exposition building to see the
Angelus ; then I took a train and went home. Contrary to my usual cus
tom, I turned on Lake-avenue and entered the house through the rear door.
In the middle of the kitchen stood Susie, my girl, who knew all the mem
bers of the German Club, having served them faithfully. She was leaning
on her broom perfectly motionless, and when she saw me she exclaimed,
'' Mr. L. committed suicide this morning at three o'clock. His body was
found at Madison Park, near the lake. They have sent for you to comfort
his mother." He died at three o'clock, and when I awoke this morning my
burden was gone, flashed through my mind in an instant.
I soon knew the whole story. The night Mr. L. appeared at my house
was the night he knew his employer had discovered he was an embezzler.
For several years he had been able to hide his sin, but suddenly he had been
entrapped. As he had rich connections here and in Milwaukee, he was given
a week's grace to make good his deficit ; failing this, arrest. His mental
state you may imagine. That was what affected me. No one m the room
but 1 alone was reserved for the fate of suffering with him. Could I only
have seen a little more clearly and helped him, the whole catastrophe might
have been averted. He would not stand before his mother a self-confessed
criminal ; too proud to appeal to his friends, he saw no way out of his troubles
but to end them.
Mrs. Joseph Pfirshing.
3,001, Groveland-avenue, Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
Jan., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 195
Mrs. Pfirshing adds in a later letter: —
I have never had such a vivid sensation about a person before ; this in
answer to your second question. Its reality was so quickly carried out in
the denouement—perhaps that is the reason it was so strongly impressed
upon me. I have all my life been strongly attracted or strongly repelled by
people.
Mr. Pfirshing confirms, as follows: —
Mr. Myers,
Dear Sir,—In answer to your wish for me to corroborate my wife's
statements about the incident she related to you, I have only to say that I
saw nothing unnatural about the young man. When the company was gone
my wife astonished me by the statements as to her experience during the
evening, and when, in a week, the young fellow killed himself, I recalled the
circumstance very plainly, but was unable to account for it.—I am, yours
very truly, _ _
Joseph Pfirshino.
INDIAN CONJURING AND HYPNOTISM.
Some of our readers may have seen—either in the Daily Graphic
of November 23rd or reproduced in Light of December 5th—a letter
narrating the performances of a "devil-woman" with phos
phorescent hair, in a chamber in a temple at Benares, who appears
to have used hypnotism as a part of her method of wonder-working.
The writer describes how " an old priest brought to the doorway a
small goat. It looked in and seemed very much frightened. No
sooner did the woman raise her hand than it became still, slowly
advanced towards her and, as it reached the platform, fell down and
was quickly drawn towards her, lying perfectly passive on its side."
"She then went through the same sort of thing" with a cat, two
pigeons, and a snake, "making the snake stand perfectly perpen
dicular." A coolie was then fetched by the writer's servant.
" The woman ordered him to throw off his loose gown, so that he had
nothing on but a loin-cloth " ; then, " after a few passes, she placed
her hand under his, and slowly raised him off the ground to the
height of about two feet. . . She then made a few hypnotic
passes, and he became quite stiff, and by a deft turn of her hand she
somehow turned his body sideways and raised him in that position
as high as her own breast." The writer subsequently found the
acoolie's arms " rigid as iron, his fingers and hips the same." The
process was then repeated on the writer himself. The fee for the
performance was two rupees.
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jan., 1892.
Mr. Barkworth has obtained from the writer—Mr. W. H.
Henderson, of 97, Eaton-Terrace, S.W.—the following additional
account of his experiences : —
I was in Benares about a week ; I have no friends resident there, and
only saw the woman in question on the day before I left. She herself was
probably resident in the town, but did not appear to be, in any public sense,
on show. She was in a sort of temple, of which I forget the name, but it was
in a central part of the town, and near the famous Cow Temple. From the
interest the temple-keepers showed at my arrival I inferred that European
visitors were not very frequent. The room into which 1 was brought was
dimly lighted by one lamp, but the light fell on the face of the woman, which
appeared to be of extreme age, very hideous and wizened ; the eyes had a
peculiar glittering expression. She wore no headdress of any kind, and her
hair appeared to scintillate and emit sparks (such as are sometimes produced
in frosty weather when using a tortoiseshell comb). The goat was drawn to
her without any contact, as though with a magnet, and the pigeons fluttered
towards her in a way quite unlike flying : I cannot be sure whether their
wings were expanded at all or not The most singular animal performance
was that of the snake, which stood perfectly erect and rigid on the point of
its tail ; I could see clearly that the tail was not curled on the floor at all.
My servant was a Calcutta man, though he had been in Benares before.
He seemed to view the whole performance with dread and dislike, and
refused to submit himself to the woman's operations in any way. He, how
ever, fetched in a boy from the streets—a full-grown lad. When the woman
lifted the boy from the ground she did so by placing one of her outstretched
hands under one of his, and as the boy was rigid she raised his whole body
off the ground. Once she put her hand under his elbow, and in turning him
over horizontally she used both hands. He was then apparently floating
horizontally in the air. I did not pass my hand or stick round him to test
the presence of artificial support, but I feel fully confident that there was
nothing of the kind. At the time the lad was thus floating his feet were
pressing against the woman's body, and she had one hand in contact with
him, but I cannot exactly remember where. I cannot say whether the boy
was conscious or not, but his eyes were open.
When I was raised from the ground I felt that my feet had left it, but, of
course, I cannot tell whether this was an hallucination or not. I retained
perfect consciousness all the time and a perfect recollection afterwards of all
that had occurred. I had never previously been hypnotised, and do not at
all know that I was so then, though my sensations were peculiar. Most of
her movements were exceedingly quick and rapid. The boy had his arms in
a cruciform position when I attempted to put them down. I cannot be per
fectly certain of the absolute correct positions of the woman's hands in rais
ing the lad, or when she placed him horizontally, but have described to the
best of my power and recollection.
W. Henry Henderson.
Ho. LXXXVII.—Vol. V. February, 1892.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates
Annual Business Meeting
Meeting of the Council . .
aGeneral Meeting
The Late Professor Adams
Cases Received by the Literary Committee
Correspondence
Census of Hallucinations (Notice)
Accounts of the Edmund Gurney Library Fund
Balance Sheet
PAGE
. 197
. 198
. 199
. 200
. 203
. 204
. 209
. 211
. 211
. 212
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Barrett, Ashley William, M.B. (Lond.), 42, Finsbury-square, E.C.
Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, N.B.
Hayward, M. Cecil, Caius College, Cambridge.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
Carlile, W. A., 165, Bevington-road, Aston, Birmingham.
ASSOCIATES.
Bell, Charles W., J.P., D.L., Yewhurst, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Morgan, Rev. Edward, B.A., Penmark Vicarage, Cowbridge.
Osborne, James, Ph. C, Hersham, near Walton-on-Thames.
Shand, Alexander, F., 1, Edwardes-place, Kensington, W.
Stanway, Miss Emily, 17, Park-street, Taunton.
Windeyer, The Hon. Chief Justice, Judges'-chambers, High Court of
Justice, Sydney, Australia.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEMBER.
Blackmar, Paul, 406, Lumber Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
Rees, Mrs. Runtz, Wayside, Scarsdale, New York, U.S.A
ASSOCIATES.
Alexander, Don, 513, McCaillie-avenue, Chattanooga, Tenn., U.S.A.
Blackford, A., 322, South Main-street, Findlay, Ohio, U.S.A.
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1892.
Brunt, Cornelius, 74, Courtlandt-street, New York, U.S.A.
Carpenter, Frank B., Tiffany-buildings, 337, 4th-avenue, New York.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., 11, Prospect-street, East Orange, New Jersey.
Donald, Rev. Dr. E. Winchester, 7, W. lOth-street, New York.
Librarian, Maiden Public Library, Maiden, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, U.S.A.
Librarian, Union Theological Seminary, 700, Park-avenue, New York.
Perrin, Mrs. E. O., Stanton, Florida, U.S.A.
ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING.
The Tenth Annual Business Meeting of the Members of the Society
was held at the Westminster Town Hall on the 29th of January, the
President in the chair.
In the course of his remarks, the President said that during the
year 1891 the total number of Members of all classes had increased
from 707 to 759, showing that there was no reason to think the limit
in respect of members had been attained. The American Branch
numbered 398 on the first of January, 1892. Though this showed a
slight diminution during the year, it might be considered satisfactory,,
seeing that the immediate loss caused by raising the subscription from
three dollars to five, at the commencement of 1891, had been nearly
regained.
The President held in his hand an audited statement of the receipts
and expenditure for 1891, which would appear as usual in the Journal
and a letter from the auditor, in which he said :—" I have audited your
accounts for 1891, which I have certified and returned to Mr. E. T.
Bennett, whose usual accuracy has been maintained, and I have much
pleasure in bearing testimony thereto." A statement of assets and
liabilities at the close of 1891 showed an excess of assets of £135.
In this estimate, as in previous years, no account is taken of the value
either of the Library or of the stock of Proceedings. A considerable
portion of the excess is, however, due to Part XX. of the Proceedings
being deferred to 1892, instead of having been published in 1891 as
intended. But, after allowing for this, the financial position of the
Society has materially improved. The President added that the delay
in the bringing out of Part XX. was not intended to interfere with
the publication of three subsequent Parts, or their equivalent, during
the present year.
The President referred to the loss the Society had sustained in the
death of Professor Adams, whose name was included among the retiring
members of Council who offered themselves for re-election. No other
nominations having been made, he declared the following to be duly
Feb., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 199
elected :—Professor W. F. Barrett, Lieut-Colonel J. Hartley, Walter
Leaf, Esq., Litt.D., Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S., Frederic W. H.
Myers, Esq., Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., H. Babington Smith, Esq., and
R. Pearsall Smith, Esq. It would be the duty of the Council to fill
up the remaining vacancy.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the close of the Annual Business Meeting, the
President occupying the chair, and there being also present, Colonel
Hartley, Messrs. Walter Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore, S. C.
Scott, and R. Pearsall Smith.
The minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
The proceedings at the Annual Business Meeting were reported as
stated above.
The re-election of the Officers of the Society for the ensuing year
was unanimously carried as follows:—President, Professor H. Sidgwick;
Hon. Treasurer, Mr. H. Arthur Smith ; Hon. Secretaries, Messrs. F.
W. H. Myers and Frank Podmore.
A vacancy in the elected members of the Council being created by
the death of Professor Adams, it was proposed by Mr. Myers, on behalf
of Professor Lodge, and seconded by the President, and carried
unanimously, that Professor Ramsay, F.R.S., be elected in accordance
with Rule 22.
The following were co-opted as members of the Council for the
ensuing year, in accordance with Rule 17 :—G. W. Balfour, Esq. M.P.,
Thos. Barkworth, Esq., the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, K.T., and
Sydney C. Scott, Esq.
The Committees were re-elected as follows, with power to add to
their number :—
Committee of Reference. —Professor Barrett, Professor Lodge, Mr.
F. W. H. Myers, Lord Rayleigh, Dr. C. Lockhart Robertson, Professor
Sidgwick, Professor Thomson, and Dr. J. Venn.
Literary Committee.—Mr. Thos. Barkworth, Rev. A. T. Fryer,
Mr. Walter Leaf, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. F. Podmore, Professor
Sidgwick, and Mrs. Sidgwick.
Library Committee.—Dr. A. T. Myers and Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
Finance Committee.—Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith,
Mr. J. Herbert Stack, and Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor.
On the proposition of the President, Mr. W. A. Carlile, of 165,
Bevington-road, Aston, Birmingham, was elected an Honorary Associate
for the current year. The election of Mrs. Runtz Rees as an Honorary
Associate of the American Branch was approved. Four new Members
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1892.
and six new Associates, whose names and addresses are given on the
preceding pages, were elected. The election of one new Member and
10 new Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
At his desire, the name of Mr. M. Solovoy was transferred from the
list of Associates to that of Members. By request, the names of Mrs.
Boucher, Mr. W. J. Flynt, Mr. F. W. Hayes, and Miss A. Newbold were
transferred from the list of Members to that of Associates. A few more
resignations at the end of 1891 were recorded.
The lists of Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates elected
for the current year will be published in Part XX of the Proceedings,
which will appear almost simultaneously with this.
Two donations were reported as having been received before the
close of the year, and were directed to be acknowledged with thanks ;
one of a guinea from Miss Curtis, an Honorary Associate, and the
other of four guineas from a member who desired it to be anonymous.
The Finance Committee was directed to prepare an estimate of
income and a scheme of expenditure for the current year, to be
presented to the next meeting of the Council.
The Council agreed to meet at 19, Buckingham-street, on Friday,
March 4th, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The Fiftieth General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, January 29th, at 4 o'clock.
The President, in opening the meeting, remarked that the Society,
was now just completing the tenth year of its existence ; that
during that period fifty general meetings will have been held and
twenty parts of the Proceedings issued completing seven volumes.
The Society had also gradually increased very largely in number, the
number of Members and Associates, including those in the American
Branch, being now over 1,150.
Part of a paper by Mr. Hodgson, which will appear shortly, on "Cer
tain Phenomena of Trance in the Case of Mrs. Piper " was read by Mr.
Leaf, the part selected dealing mainly with the nature of the trance
personality and how far the statements made by it about itself are true.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers then addressed the meeting on the subject
of "The Mechanism of Genius." The following is a summary of his
remarks, which it is intended to publish in full in a future number of
the Proceedings:—We have lately been concerned in tracing the action
of the Subliminal Consciousness in hypnotic suggestion. The effects
thus produced lie below the physiological limit of the spectrum of
ordinary consciousness ; that is to say, they involve the initiation and
Feb., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 201
control of organic processes which the conscious will cannot reach.
We have now to consider the operation of subliminal faculty within
the limits of the ordinary range of consciousness ; in rendering the
ordinary senses more acute, or supplying the supraliminal self with
intellectual products already matured below the threshold. We are
accustomed to mass many of these phenomena together under the name
of genius ; and perhaps we seldom give the name of genius to any piece
of work into which some uprush of subliminal faculty has not entered.
There will, however, be many uprushes which are concerned with
matters not sufficiently interesting or important to be classed as works
of genius. Thus there are cases where a hallucinatory clock-face has
suddenly appeared, conveying true information, afterwards verified, as
to the time of day. This indicates that the sense of efflux of time is
more accurate in the subliminal than in the supraliminal perception.
There are similar instances where the sense of muscular resistance is
found to be more delicate in the subliminal than in the supraliminal
strata. So also with the various senses in turn. It is when we get to the
capacity of inward visualisation that we find subliminal achievements to
which the word genius may fairly be applied. Such are the performances
of arithmetical prodigies, whose feats presuppose a power of retaining
rows of figures before the mental eye which stands to the ordinary
power of mental picturing somewhat as a series of instantaneous photo
graphs stands to a dissolving view. Turning to more aesthetic triumphs,
we find the sense of inspiration, which is often present to inferior
poets and painters as well as to the best, probably represents subjec
tively some uprush of subliminal faculty, although, of course, it does
not guarantee the objective excellence of the product. At any rate
there is some satisfaction to ordinary minds in the reflection that the
brilliant light which the star of genius emits is due not only to its
originally superior magnitude, but to its fuller self-revelation, or free
dom from the interposed and light absorbing vapours which habitually
dim the lustre of all incarnated minds. Although we may never rival
the magnitude of those mighty stars, we also may some day conceivably
find the interposing vapours dispelled, and thus may shine with the
full brightness which our intrinsic magnitude allows.
It was asked in reference to some things said by Mr. Myers and in
connection with Mrs. Piper's trance whether self-hypnotisation was
possible, and if so how it could be known when the state began or ended
and whether one were hypnotised or not. Was not a "census of ghosts"
an absurdity if it could be supposed that those seeing apparitions
always did so in a state of self-hypnotisation.
Mr. Myers replied that some persons could undoubtedly hypnotise
themselves, and that it sometimes also occurred in the case of sensitive
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1892.
subjects, without their intention, by self-suggestion. Usually a
complete forgetfulness during waking life of what had passed in the
hypnotic trance sufficiently marked off one state from the other.
Mrs. Gordon asked whether the extraordinary faculties shown by
calculating boys and some other young children did not support the
doctrine of reincarnation.
Mr. Myers replied that it would no doubt fit in with that Platonic
doctrine, or might be adduced in support of the view that faculties
are implanted in the human being from without, but would probably
nowadays be more often explained as a result of heredity.
Mrs. Gordon said that the frequent difficulty of tracing similar
qualities in the immediate ancestors of the child went against the
heredity theory.
Mr. Myers answered that the supporters of that theory would say
that such special faculties as those of a calculating boy were due to a
fortuitous combination of atoms, as it were, inherited from various
ancestors—it might be of any degree of remoteness.
Colonel Hartley said that an individual must be compared not
to a private brougham but to an omnibus in which any or all of his
ancestors might be carried. Referring to what a previous speaker had
said about the census of hallucinations, he thought that apparitions
were often seen during a brief sleep of which the sleeper was unaware,
but that this did not affect the interest of statistics on this subject.
Sir Lawrence Jones asked if there were instances of such a
welling up from the subliminal self as Mr. Myers had spoken of
occurring only once or twice in a lifetime. If so he thought he had
himself experienced something of the kind. A quotation having once
been made at his father's dinner-table, of which no one present knew the
origin, he had a sudden intuition that it was from Shakespeare, and
named play, act, and scene, though he had never read the play. It
was looked out and found correct. He had no idea how he could have
known, unless he had at some time turned over the pages of a Shake
speare dictionary and seen it.
Mr. Myers said that some such explanation was probably the true
one, and that similar experiences sometimes occurred in planchette
writing.
The President referring to the census of hallucinations, explained
that its value would not be interfered with by the possibility, if there
were such, that hallucinations were due to a species of self-hypnotisation ;
because, for us members of the Society for Psychical Research at any
rate, the chief interest of the census lay in discovering the proportion
of cases in which the apparition appeared to be connected with some
Feb., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 203
crisis in the life of the person seen, and in cases where such coinci
dences were made out, self-hypnotisation will not explain the important
-element of the phenomenon.
THE LATE PROFESSOR ADAMS.
By the death of John Couch Adams, Lowndean Professor of
Astronomy in the University of Cambridge, our Society has lost one of
those rare men whose individual judgment, formed aloof from party
and prepossession, can still carry, without published argument, a
serious weight of its own. Cautious, modest, and retiring, even to a
fault, Professor Adams was not lavish of words or declarations. His
mind was a well of wisdom ; but those who would have drawn thence
for any slight or party purpose were apt to find that they had nothing
to draw with, and that the well was deep. Yet on those rare occasions
when he was strongly convinced that some controverted view was sound,
some difficult course was right, his benignant, measured speech became
the very weapon which a wise man addressing wise men would most
desire to command. Few men of eminence intervened so seldom in
any debate ; no man, when he did intervene, left so little desire in
prudent disputants to get up and answer him.
We could not have been surprised if a savant of this temper had
kept wholly aloof from a line of research such as ours ;—concerned as
it is with questions as to which Bacon said long ago that they " have
not been more laboriously inquired than variously reported ; so as the
travail therein taken seems rather to have been in a maze than a way."
The more encouraging was it to find that the man whose meditative
outlook on planets, moon, meteor-streams, had veritably, and not once
alone, transformed a maze into a way, was deeply assured that the
same change might be wrought in our subject-matter also by the same
process of steady labour, of dispassionate care. Throughout the past
ten years of our work his sympathy never failed us ;—a sympathy the
more valuable inasmuch as he had, of course, no illusions as to the
strength of our advancing column, or the nearness of our goal. But
he was sure that what we were doing was right to do; he held
unwaveringly that through these adits lay an unassailable, if a slow,
advance into the knowledge of things unseen.
To a man whose fate had called him to move gropingly among
conceptions which to him seem all-important, but which most men
hardly care for sufficiently to investigate, or even to attack, an
approval such as Professor Adams' comes with a force of reassurance
which those who fight with great parties behind them can seldom
aeither feel or need. How greatly did this one man's few grave words
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1892.
outweigh all hasty, momentary utterances hostile to the quest !—out
weighed them as the flashing Leonids, whose sweep he tracked through
heaven, are outweighed by his own silent planet—a telescopic object,
moving hidden in the deep of space, but laying from afar its unfaltering
due control upon the secular aberrations of the wandering family of
the Sun.
Els efiol fivpioi, said Heraclitus, iav apio-ros y. One man is for me
ten thousand, if that man be the best.
F. W. H. M.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 929. Ad Pn Auditory. Borderland.
I heard the following case from Miss Elsie Spears, the percipient, and'
also, separately, from her elder sister, Miss Spears, at their home, 48, God
win-street, Birmingham, December 18th and 17th, 1891. I took down the
statement of each, which they revised and signed. I also saw a card
announcing that the girl here called Clara "Died September 15th, 1887,
aged 13." The two brothers sent me their written corroborations on
December 22nd. F. W. H. M.
Document I.
My greatest friend was a girl whom I will call Clara, of the same age as
myself. We had always been together and were as intimate as girls can be.
Clara had a little sister of four years old, whom I will call Maggie. This
little Maggie was very ill, and Clara and I were very anxious about her. I
went away from Birmingham to Sutton for my health. I was to stay some
time longer. On Wednesday, September 14th, 1887, I was very anxious to
write to Clara, but I had rheumatism in my hands and could not do so.
I had been thinking much about Maggie on the night of September
14/15th. In the morning I suddenly found myself wide awake, the room
being already light. A voice was saying, close to me, " Don't fret, Elsie ;
Maggie is living, but it is Clara that's dead. I looked round, but there was
no one there. Almost at that moment the clock struck six. The voice was
sad. Next day I felt certain that Clara was gone, and, although my hands
were better, I could not bring myself to write to her. On the Friday I had
to write to a friend at home, whom I will call Mr. Dean. I said to him that
I knew there was a great trouble at home. I said that I did not know what
it was. But I knew quite well, only I could not mention it to Mr. Dean, I
felt it too much. On the Saturday I went out to do an errand for the lady
with whom I was staying. But suddenly I felt that I could not turn that
way but must go towards the station. As I did so, I met my brother, who
had been sent to bring me home. He was surprised to see me. I at once
said, "Maggie isn't dead, is she, Win?" He said, "No." I did not
ask after Clara. I knew too well. He did not mention her either. We got
home, and I at once threw myself into mother's arms. My brother began
Feb., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 205
to say, "Clara has been ill." I at once said, "I know that she is dead.
She died on Thursday morning, at six." This was the fact.
Elsie B. Spears, December 1§th, 1891.
Document II.
My sister Elsie had a great friend [Clara], a girl of 13. This child had a
little sister [Maggie] who was seriously ill. The family felt much anxiety
about Maggie, but Clara was much less noticed. My sister went away from
Birmingham for her health, to Sutton, about nine miles off. She was to stay a
fortnight. After she had been a week away, Clara was suddenly seized with
heart disease, and died the same night. We then thought that my sister
should be summoned home, as she would wish to be at the funeral, and we
sent my brother to bring her, telling him not to tell her the reason till she
got home. When he came to her she asked no questions but came straight
back. When she got into the house I asked her, " Do you know why we have
sent for you ? " She said, " I know ; Clara's dead." She then described
having had an intimation of Clara's death at the time she died.
Nellie Louise Spears, December 1%th, 1891.
Document III.
On Saturday, September 17th, 1887, I went to Sutton Coldfield to fetch
my sister Elsie home, and met her coming towards the station. On meeting
me she asked after Maggie but did not mention Clara.
Ernest G. Spears (referred to as Win Spears).
Document IV.
Referring to the death of Clara, which occurred on the 15th of Septem
ber, 1887, I beg to say that intimation thereof was received at my residence
at about 7 o'clock on the morning of that date, and that as near as I can
now recollect it was stated that the death had taken place about an hour
previously.
H. H. Spears, December, 22nd, 1891.
L. 930. Ad Pn Auditory. Collective Borderland.
The following account appeared in Answers for March 29th, 1890.
6, Waltham-terrace, Blackrock, March 12th, 1890.
Concerning " Death-warnings," I should like to narrate a strange occur
rence that happened to myself.
In my young days I was adopted by my mother's sister, who, whilst a
widow, resided in Dublin. My wife and I were at the time in Liverpool.
About 12 p.m. one night we were awakened by three distinct knocks
being made at the bedroom door, each accompanied by a clear pronunciation
of my Christian name. I got up, opened the door, but saw no one there.
I then looked at my watch and returned to bed.
Two days afterwards I received a letter stating that my aunt had died on
the same night and at the very hour my watch had specified. G. H. T.
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1892.
In reply to inquiries, the writer of above, Mr. G. H. Thompson,
writes on April 9th, 1890 :—
My aunt's name was Georgina Jane Kyle, and she died, a widow, in
December 1868, in her house, 4, Upper Pembroke-street, Dublin, She was
my godmother, and I lived in her family as her adopted son, for 8 years, when
a boy, after which we always continued on most affectionate terms, and for
many years I used to cross the channel from Liverpool annually, to stay in her
house. The occurrence we are discussing was a unique experience on my
part, and I never before or since have had any hallucination of sight or
hearing, or heard voices calling me, when nothing happened. I enclose a
brief confirmation from my wife. Geo. H. Thompson.
Mrs. Thompson confirms as follows :—
With reference to the subject of your note, I beg to say that / did hear
3 knocks and the pronouncement of my husband's name on the occasion
referred to. M. T. Thompson.
After an interview with the narrators, Professor Barrett adds the
following notes :—
April 24th, 1890.
Saw Mr. and Mrs. Thompson. Both affirm they heard the sounds and
heard their name called. Nothing seen when door opened. Certain that
it coincided with death of their relative. Asked if they had any lurking
suspicion of a natural explanation, Mrs. Thompson said their servant used
sometimes to walk about the house after they were gone to bed, and once or
twice they heard her and she gave them a fright. But no knocking on part
of servant. My opinion is, possibly servant knocked and called their names.
But if so, the coincidence of the death of their aunt at the exact time is
curious. Mr. Thompson is certain he looked at his watch when the sounds
were heard. Never knew servant walk about so late as this. They are
satisfied that the servant theory does not explain the matter ; though it is an
element of doubt in the case in my opinion. W. F. Barrett.
On inquiry at the General Registar Office at Dublin we learn that
Mrs. Georgina Jane Kyle died on the 8th of March, 1869, at 15,
Upper Pembroke-street. Mr. Thompson trusted to his memory for
date and address and it is not therefore surprising that at this distance
of time he should have made a slight error. He has no independent
recollection of the time of his experience,
L. 931. Ad Pn Depression and idea of calamity. Also knocks heard.
The following curious incident seems worth mentioning in connec
tion with the above. The case is at second hand, but Mrs. Baldwyn
Childe, who sent it to us, says that she has "written it down as
nearly as possible in the words " of the percipient.
The following was told to me yesterday by Emma, a girl I have known
from her childhood. She is the daughter of a sawyer, and is parlour-maid in
Feb., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 207
a small family in Lancashire. She is about 25 and is a remarkably nice and
respectable girl.
" On the evening of Friday, December 5th, about 6 o'clock, I heard a
knock at the hall door, and my fellow servant called out to me, ' There's a
knock at your door' (meaning the front door, which it was my duty to
answer). I went to it and there was no one there. We soon heard another
knock, and I said it must be the back door—go and see. She went—no one
was there. Then I went to the pantry. In a few minutes I heard a knock
ing in the room above, which was my bedroom, as if a picture was tumbling
down ; but I did not go up to see. I felt very low in the evening with a
great oppression on my chest, and I told my fellow servant that I was sure
some great misfortune was going to happen.
" The next morning I heard from my mother by post that father had died
about 6 o'clock the evening before. He had long been an invilid, but I had
no reason to think he was worse, and in fact did not think of him at all. He
.had a seizure on Thursday night from which he never rallied."
December 15th, 1890. Frances C. Baldwtn Childb.
In the next three cases, non-vocal sounds collectively heard are an
important feature, and it is generally difficult to judge how far such
sounds are hallucinatory. For remarks by Mr. Gurney on this class
of cases, see Phantasms of the Living, Vol. II., pp. 129-132.
L. 932. Ad Pn Collective. Auditory. Knocks and sound of
carriage.
Mr. S. H. Millett writes :—
Richard Hodgson, Esq. Norway, April \Zth, 1891.
Dear Sir,—As regards the experience you refer to, in 1857, the last days
of November, or very first days of December, my grandfather (Soloman
Millett) died, aged 88 years. He died in the Norway village which is three
and a half or four miles from my farm, which he (grandfather) cleared from a
forest and lived on it for 60 years. All of his children were born here, and
here his wife (my grandmother) died in 1849. Grandfather moved to
Norway village, to live with a daughter, in 1853, and never came back to the
old place in the body, though he greatly desired to do so, but the infirmities
of old age prevented. The last year of his life his mind was wandering more
or less, and he was constantly referring to the old place—in spirit he seemed
to be here.
The night he died, my father and mother and brother and sister, with
myself, were all at home. We were not expecting his immediate death.
My sister and brother and myself were in the front part of house, we were
studying our lessons for the next day's school, when all at once we heard a
great noise as a horse and carriage would make driving up to the yard (the
ground was frozen hard, with no snow), and immediately raps were heard on
the door nearest us. We rushed out to the kitchen, where father and mother
were, to tell them someone had come ; but they had heard the team drive up,
and father had already lighted the lantern to light the team into the stable,
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1892.
but no team was there ; no one was at the door. Early the next morning we
learned that grandfather died the night before at the very time the carriage
and raps were heard.
I was 12 years old at the time. My brother (who died in 1858) was 15 ;.
my sister (who is living) was older. My father and mother are both dead.
Naturally, we have related the experience to many.
I firmly believe, and always have, that grandfather's spirit came back that
night to the old place.
Grandfather has a daughter living in South Boston, an old lady, but I
think she and her sons will remember our relating the experience. If you
would like to interview them, go to 476, Broadway, where her son Amos
T. White is a grocer. S. H. Millett.
Miss Millett writes : —
B. Hodgson, Esq. Norway, Maine, May 1st, 1891.
Dear Sir,—You will pardon my delay in auswering your inquiry, as a
letter from me can be only a repetition of my brother's letter. The evening
my brother refers to, my two brothers and myself were in the front part of
the house, in the family sitting-room, my brothers with their books, and I
was practising on the piano, when we suddenly heard a carriage drive into
the yard. The ground was frozen, so that it was a loud rumbling sound, and
then we heard three distinct raps on the front door. One of my brothers
went to the door but there was no one there. They then went out to tell our
parents that someone had come, but our father was just going out as they
(my parents) had heard the carriage and the raps, I think on another door.
The last year of my grandfather's life, his one wish had been to see the old
home once more, but owing to the infirmities of »ge he was never able to do
so in the flesh. We think he was permitted to do so after death. I should
have said that he passed away just about the time we heard the chariot
wheels and the raps. My grandfaiher was a devout Christian. None of our
family are believers in so-called Spiritualism, indeed we are opposed to it.
You ask my brother in your last letter if this is the only experience he
has had. He says it is. E. A. Millett.
Mr. Hodgson's attention was first called to this incident by an.
account of it, similar to the above, occurring in the course of a history
of the Millett family, in the Oxford County Advertiser, of August 15th,.
1890, published at Norway, Maine, U.S.A. The author of this account,
Mr. 0. N. Bradbury, writes :—
B. Hodgson. 117, Main-street, Norway, Maine, March 1st, 1891.
Dear Sir,—Yours of the 12th inst. before me. The cutting concerning
the occurrence at the death of Soloman Millett was written by myself. I
received the particulars from the " three children " mentioned therein who
are now living at the same place—two of them in the same house, and the
third in another house forty rods away. Their father and mother, " Hiram
and his wife Bhoda," are dead.
At the time the team drove up, at the time of the death of the grand
father, his son Hiram and wife were in the kitchen (it was early in the
Feb., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 209
evening) doing up the evening's work, and he lit his lantern and went
directly to stable to open door for the team, while the children were in the
sitting-room (with dining-room between), and they all, as they tell me, heard
the team, and went to the door in answer to the raps. There was no com
munication with parents and children until later on the subject.
I was at the time in California, but I find abundance of people now living
who heard much of the event at the time.
I doubt whether any record was made at the time. The three children,
who, as the cutting says, were in the parlour or sitting-room, busy with
reading and music, are Miss Emeline A. Millett, then 25 years old ; Soloman
Millett, then 12 years old ; and Hiram A. Millett, then quite young. . . .
0. N. Bradbdry.
There was another child present at the time, then about 15 years old.
He died a year later.
CORRESPONDENCE.
NOTE ON CARPENTER'S " MENTAL PHYSIOLOGY," SECTION 341.
Subjective recurrence of a previous objective sensory impression is,
according to Carpenter, ideational in origin, and is transmitted from the
cortical centres downwards to the sensorium. He illustrates this by the
common expression of " It makes me sick to think of it," which he maintains
to be the experience of a sensorial feeling excited by an ideational state.
Now, in all such sensations there are three possible steps : 1st, the
Ideational ; 2nd, the Sensorial, or, as in the case named, the Cerebro-Spinal ;
3rd, the Peripheral or Terminal. But between the cases instanced by
Carpenter and the sensory hallucinations which are studied by the Society
for Psychical Research there are two distinctions important to be observed.
1st. The cases cited have their origin in the cortex, and are sent down to
the sensorium. Of this we have conscious evidence in the fact that the idea
precedes the revived sensation. We know this to be so, even when no
appreciable interval is apparent, by the fact that the idea is the cause of the
sensation, and not vice versa. Whereas, in a hallucination no such pre
cedence is observable ; the sensory impression being immediate, and
frequently unassociated with any preceding idea or apprehension. From
this we must infer that here the sensation originates, qua the percipient, in
the sensorium and not in the cerebrum.
2nd. The revived idea of the sensation, though it reaches the sensorium,
does not go beyond it and become externalised1 as a quasi objective sensation
itself. No one ever mistook the revived recollection of a scene or a flavour
for the sensation itself. But in telepathy this is just what does take place.
Thus we seem driven to conclude that, in the latter case, the impulse does
not expend itself in the sensorium, but is propagated downwards to the
periphery.
It would seem, therefore, that two distinctions are to be observed
1 There are some rare exceptions to this rule, mostly of a pathological character,
mentioned by Hibbert, De Boismont, &c.—T. B.
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Feb., 1892.
between a mental image and a hallucination. The first originates in the-
cerebrum, but the second in the sensorium ; and the first terminates in the
sensoriuin, but the second in the periphery.
Telepathic hallucination may, however, conceivably have a starting point
in the cerebrum ; not that of the percipient, however, but of the agent, from
which it may be considered as acting directly on the sensorium of the
former. And this action would be facilitated by anything, like hypnotism
or ordinary somnolence, tending to obscure the active consciousness of the
percipient, and thus leave the telepathic impression unimpeded by the more
glaring effects of the former ; just as observation of an eclipse is assisted
by interposing smoked glass betweeu the eye and the sun. Hence the
frequency of hallucinations in what are called "borderland" conditions.
This view is, moreover, greatly strengthened by considering the analogy
of certain hypnotic experiments, in which the operator tastes drugs or handles
hot things, producing similar sensations in the subject. I take it that the
effect upon the operator in thus tasting and handling is to strengthen his
own mental conception of these sensations, and so promote their transfer
ence to the sensorium of the subject, so that if he could call up a sufficiently
realistic mental image without actual experience this tasting and handling
might very likely be dispensed with. In like manner phantasms of the
living are generally produced in times of great crises, when the impressions
of the agent may be supposed to be peculiarly vivid.
Thomas Barkwobth.
[For a full discussion of the subject here treated see Phantasms of the-
Living, chap. x.—Ed.]
"negative hallucinations."
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Dear Sir,—I am often teazed by what you very properly call negative
hallucinations. After searching in vain for my pen, folder, letters, &c., which
I know to have remained undisturbed on my table, I give up the useless
task, begin another pursuit and on returning to my table find easily every
thing where I had left it I attribute this infirmity to old age, which forgets
easily recent events while remembering those of childhood.
Two months ago I was returning by rail from Biarritz, and being alone in
the waggon with my wife I mentioned the Bidart tunnel. She stopped me
by saying, "There is no tunnel here ; we ought to have passed it five minutes
ago. Now I have perceived neither darkness nor the rumbling noise ; are
you conscious of either ? " After a few minutes trying to remember, I quite
agreed with her. On getting home the same evening I called a man before
her and asked him to enumerate all the tunnels between Hendaye and
Bayonne. He quoted amongst them the one near Bidart and we were both
nonplussed. I quote this as a hallucination of sight and hearing in two
persons at once.1 Believe me, faithfully yours,
Abbadia, Hendaye (France) Antoine d'Abbadie
January 1ith, 1892. (de Plnstitut).
1 This would appear to us to be rather ft failure of memory due to absence of vivid
consciousness at the time of matters to which the attention was not directed.—En.
Feb., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 211
CENSUS OF HALLUCINATIONS. (NOTICE.)
The Census of Hallucinations, which has been in progress since
Easter, 1889, will be closed at the end of next April, in order to allow
time for a complete Report on the material collected up to that time
to be made to the International Congress of Experimental Psychology
in August.
Any Members and Associates who have obtained answers which
they have not yet sent in, on account of the A forms not being
completely filled, are requested to send them to Professor Sidgvvick on
or before May 1st, 1892, whether the forms are completely filled or not,
as it will not be possible for him to include in the Report answers
which reach him after that date.
He will, however, be glad to continue receiving accounts of cases
which appear to have weight as evidence for telepathy or to present
some other feature of special interest, and which may be used as
illustrations of various points in the Report.
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY FUND.
Account to January 1st, 1891.
d.
To Balance from 1889 ... 23 3
£ s. d. £ s.
0 By Investment, £20 In
„ Donation ... ... 2 0 0 dustrial and Gen.
„ Dividends on Invest Trust, 3£ per cent.
ments 13 12 7 Debenture Stock ... 18 8 2
„ Shelving 5 10 0
„ Books 1 12 3
„ Binding 2 15 0
„ Balance in hand, Jan-
uary 1st, 1891
10 10 2
£38 15 7 £38 15 7
Account to January 1st, 1892.
£ s. d. £ s. d.
To Balance from 1891 ... 10 10 2 Paid for Books ... 8 2 3
„ Dividends 11 4 2 Balance in hand ... 13 12 1
£21 14 4 £21 14 4
Audited and found correct,
H. Arthur Smith, Hon. Treasurer, S.P.R.
hOCItTv
Fen
ttechIuAL
rehtARCH.
12EE12T
ANE
e1212tv12
£TT£
TT
vHT
TT
£t12
74
EeEee1,
47.
5r.111.
Jan.
1.—
To
Balan'
in
hands
of
Treanurer „
Do.
„
„
deurenarr
Deu.
e1.
,,
dubnuri9tionn
:
—
/y
Me'bern Ans'iaten
£
n.
d. 110
17
9 10
0
0 75
10
0
e5r
1
0
,
Life
dubncri'ionn
,
Donationn
,
dale
of
Publiuations
:—
Per
12En
PEl,
Trenu- Trubne-
£
Co.
tJanuae,
110,
u
J'e,
111)
,,
A'eriuan
Branch
ton
ac.'t
of
111)
1e5
„
deurenarr)
10
Ad1212i12mentn
in
Pro'edingn
...
Rent
—
tBou(
n12
required
at
u,
Bu12ingha'-ntreen,
11
'onths
u
Mich'l'an,
111)
79
7
4
£
n.
d.
1e0
17
9
694
11 41
0 6
6
Te
8
1
10
15
0
0 £11£1
1e
r
ffir. 111.
Dec.
e1.
-Br
Lherarr
Co'mhtee
,,
Librarr ,,
Printing:
—
Pro'ethngn,
Pa12
XVII.
„
XVIII....
XIX
Journal,
Non.
7e—ur
Title
Pagen
and
Indi'n
tPr'.
and
Journal)
General
...
£
n.
d.
166
0
rr
19
rr
1e
1
7
10
17 7
17
Co12rn
and
Binding
Earlr
Numbers
of
Journal
General
Meeningn
Ad1212ining
Tra12lling
129en12n
tMe'bern
of
Co'cil)
... dalae
u
decrenae
peE,,
110,
u
d',,
111)
and
Com'i12ion
on
dubncri'ions
...
Bent
t11
'ontec
u
Mich'l'an,
111)
thu12vou9er
t11
'ontec,
u,
'12ingh--n,)
Reading
Bou'
and
dtationee
Pontage
peeurenarr's)
„
Publications
u
A'erica
tCharged
u
Branch)
Gas...
B'ai-n
Furninhing
General
Emen12n
Balan'
in
handn
of
Treanurer
79
10
r
decrenae
10
0
0
£
s.
d. 11
16
9 1e
11
r
4rr
0
6
10
10
1 0
9
0
er
4
0 r
6
6 r
16
17
16 45
0 11
0
e
1 ee
1
1
1
17
1
1
r
6
e
17
0
49
1
1 159
10
r £11T
1e
r
I
ha12
Edhed
te
abo12
Re'i9tn
and
129enthEre
Au.'t
whh
te
Bouuc
of
t.
d'iTr,
and
'12i-
that
h
E
.-r-, ^^^
^
Janaaec
2SE'
111.
No. LXXXVIII.-Vol. V. [Mahch, 1892.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates PAGE
. . 213
214
General Meeting
Meeting of the Council
Meetings of the American Branch . . 217
. . 221
. . 227
.. 228
Cases Received by the Literary Committee
The Waterford Ohost
Correspondence
NEW MEMBERS .AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Foster, Gerald H., 5, Cleveland-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
Henry-Anderson, Mrs. I., Druids' Mere, Blairgowrie, N.B.
ASSOCIATES.
Bowlby, Arthur S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Callaway, Charles, D.Sc., M.A., Sandon, Wellington, Salop.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Technical Institute, Teramo, Italy.
Godfrey, Thomas H., M.B., The General Dispensary, Jersey.
Hargrave, Joseph G., The Grange, Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Manchester.
Taxis, Princess, 10, Mohrengasse, Vienna.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEMBER.
Kidd, George W., 853, Fifth-avenue, New York, U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
Adams, Robert C, 45, Metcalf-street, Montreal, Canada.
Alden, F. E., 6, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Ballou, Mrs. M. B., Whitaker Flats, Davenport, Iowa, U.S.A.
Both-Hendricksen, Mlle. L., 166, Macon-st., Brooklyn, New York.
Brown, Alfred S., 195, Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Bryant, George B., 16, East 70th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Comstock, C. B., 39, Whitehall-street, New York, U.S.A.
Doty, Asa C, Belvedere, Allegany County, New York, U.S.A.
Goodale, Henry S., 400, West 57th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Joline, Mrs. Adrian H., 1, West 72nd-street, New York, U.S.A.
Kempton, C. W., 162, State-street, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
MacDonough, Thomas B., 25, West 30th-street, New York, U.S.A.
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1892.
McClelland, Major G. P., Davenport, Iowa, U.S.A.
McQuigg, Mrs. C. B., 207, Park-avenue, Ironton, Iowa, U.S.A.
Parker, Professor J. M., Jun., M.D., State University, Ironton,
Iowa City, Iowa, U.S.A.
Plumb, D. S., 24, Boudinet-street, Newark, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Richardson, Charles, 608, Chestnut-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Steffins, J. L., Hotel de la Haute Loire, 203, Boulevard Raspail, Paris.
Strong, Dr. Charles A., Hotel SanRemo, 8th-avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Wade, Miss Julia Frances, Box 268, Santa Barbara, California, U.S.A.
Webb, Mrs., 31, Chestnut-street, Salem, Mass., U.S.A.
Williams, Professor H. H., University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, North Carolina, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on March 4th. In the absence
of the President, Mr. R. Pearsall Smith was voted to the chair.
There were also present : Professor William Ramsay, and Messrs. T.
Barkworth, W. Crookes, W. Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore,
S. C. Scott, and H. Arthur Smith.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed as
correct. Two new Members and six new Associates were elected.
The election of one new Member and twenty-two new Associates of
the American Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given
above. Information of the decease of Major A. Wallace Carpenter, a
Member of the Society, and also of Mr. A. J. Shilton, an Associate,
was received. At his request, the name of Mr. H. E. Wingfield was
transferred from the list of Members to that of Associates.
Some presents to the Library were on the table, which were directed
to be duly acknowledged.
The Finance Committee presented a report, including an estimate
of income for the year, and a scheme of expenditure which it was
agreed as far as possible to carry out. The Committee also reported
the investment of the sum of £195 10s. 6d., representing almost
exactly the amount received, up to the close of last year, for Life
Subscriptions.
It was resolved that the idea, discussed last year, of sending some
spare copies of those Parts of the Proceedings of which the stock on
hand was the largest, to Libraries in the Australian Colonies and in
New Zealand, should now be carried out.
Some other matters of business having been disposed of, the Council
agreed to meet at the Westminster Town Hall, on Friday, April 8th,
at 3 p.m.
March, 1892.] Journal of Society for Pyschical Research. 215
GENERAL MEETING.
The 51st General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, March 4th, at 8.30 p.m., Mr. Pearsall
Smith in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read a paper on " Indications of Continued
Knowledge of Terrene Events shown by Phantasms of the Dead," of
which the following is a summary. The paper is intended to appear in
the next number of the Proceedings. The following is an abstract
of it :—
A "ghost," or apparition representing a deceased person, is, on any
explanation, an extremely complex phenomenon. For us the primary
point to establish is its evidential or coincidental character ; but
assuming this to be proved, we are still confronted with many problems
quite beyond our solution. These problems may be divided into two
main groups : What takes place in the percipient when he perceives
the apparition ? What takes place in the agent when he causes the
apparition 1
It is from the study of the former of these two questions that most
light can at present be hoped ; and discussions as to man's subliminal
capacity in general will be found to have a real bearing on his capacity
to discern these veridical phantasms of the dead. But neither must we
neglect any indications which may throw light on the latter question :
What is the condition of the discarnate personality from which the
message is despatched to the incarnate mind ? And here, as a
definite point for analysis, we may select the amount of knowledge
indicated by the apparition as to terrene events which have occurred
since the decedent's channels of earthly information were closed.
In most instances the phantom—vague or momentary in character
—gives no such indication one way or the other. [Case.] In some
instances there appears to be ignorance of events which a clairvoyant
power might have enabled the decedent to learn. [Cases.] But here we
seem to be in the presence of a mere dreamlike prolongation of the
attitude of mind in which the agent passed from earth. In other
instances there seems to be a knowledge of the aspect and dress of the
body as laid out in the coffin. [Cases.] And sometimes the apparition
so immediately precedes the arrival of news of the death that we must
suppose some causal connection. [Cases.] Such connection may
possibly be found in some clairvoyant power of the percipient's ; or
perhaps the decedent himself may be able to trace the diffusion of the
news of his death. Again, in some instances, the apparition seems to
occur at a significant moment, when some crisis in the percipient's life
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1892.
is impending, or has actually arrived. [Cases.] It sometimes seems as
though a promise given before death were followed by some manifesta
tion from the decedent of continued interest in survivors. All should
try some such experiment ; should, for instance, write down and seal
up before death some significant sentence, and after death endeavour to
communicate that sentence, not necessarily to a friend, but to any
person who may be discerned as capable of transmitting, by automatic
writing or otherwise, a message from a discarnate intelligence
Mb. Leap objected that such post-mortem experiments as those
suggested by Mr. Myers would be vitiated a priori by the possibility of
telepathic impulses from the mind of the experimenter ; these might
make a record which would be recalled by the subliminal consciousness
of the survivor when his attention was directed to the verification of
the test. Those who admit the reality of such telepathic communica
tions between the living are bound to assign all such phenomena to this
cause rather than to telepathic communications from the dead, of which
we have as yet no experimental evidence.
Mr. Myers replied that he contemplated experimental tests which
should have no reference to verification by any particular person. A
successful experiment, where a message left by a dead person had been
discovered by a survivor with whom no previous arrangement had been
made, would seem to exclude explanation by telepathy.
Mr. Leaf replied that his remarks had been directed to the par
ticular experiment of the broken brick which Mr. Myers had just read.
When a test had been successful without pre-arrangement it would be
time to consider what explanation was the least difficult ; meanwhile he
thought that it was more useful to devote attention to the discovery of
the possibilities of telepathy between the living by means of experiments
which were not by the nature of the case incapable of repetition.
Mr. Podmore pointed out that in most, if not all the cases quoted
in the paper unconscious telepathy from living minds would furnish an
adequate explanation of the facts, and he quoted an instance, published
in Phantasms of the Living, in which an idea was proved to have been
transferred without design on the part of the agent or consciousness on
the part of the percipient. He urged that, until all the possibilities of
thought-transference from living minds had been exhausted, it would be
premature to invoke the agency of the dead. As a case where the
agency of the dead would be, at all events, a plausible hypothesis, he
instanced the discovery through a dream or vision of a dead body in an
unknown locality. But no such cases, he pointed out, had hitherto been
adduced.
Mr. Baukworth said that the case quoted by Mr. Podmore could
scarcely be held parallel to the test proposed by Mr. Myers because in
March, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 217
the former there was a living agent whose mental activities continued
in operation up to the moment of percipience. If it proved anything,
therefore, it would tend to show that, if Mr. Myers' test were fulfilled,
the mental activities of the departed were similarly continuous. On the
other hand, a determined objector might urge that Mr. Podmore's
proposed test would not exclude independent clairvoyance.
Turning then to Mr. Leaf's remarks, Mr. Barkworth said that it
seemed doing extreme violence to all probability to suppose that an
impression conveyed by unconscious, involuntary thought-transference
should remain latent for months or years, and only emerge at an
uncertain period after the death of the agent. No such case of
prolonged suppression had ever been observed, whether arising spon
taneously or experimentally. These and similar attempts to explain
away post-mortem agency seemed to him (the speaker) like theories of
desperation, or the result of a willingness to accept any hypothesis
however far-fetched or difficult, rather than take the phenomena simply
for what they stood for, viz., manifestations of a continued existence
after death.
MEETINGS OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEETING IN BOSTON.
A General Meeting was held in the Lecture-room of the Boston
Society of Natural History, on Tuesday, February 9th, at 8 p.m., 113
persons present ; Professor William Watson in the chair.
The Secretary read the records of the previous meeting, which
were approved.
The Treasurer read the financial statement for 1891, and the
Chairman appointed Mr. W. L. Parker and Dr. Morton Prince as
auditors.
The Chairman stated that since the previous meeting (January,
1891) a new Society, called "The American Psychical Society," had
been formed, and he read a list of its officers and an account of one of
its meetings, taken from the Notes and Announcements in The Arena
magazine for February. This account contained some descriptions of
sittings with a " slate-writing " medium, at which apparently, accord
ing to the witnesses, supernormal phenomena were manifested. The
Chairman called upon the Secretary for information concerning this
matter.
The Secretary stated that this new Society had no connection
whatever with the American Branch, and that the medium referred to
in their investigations was a " trickster," named Mrs. Maud Jones
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, I8i»2.
Gillett. He described a sitting which he himself hod had with her, and
explained how her tricks were performed. He added that the Rev.
M. J. Savage, who was at first President of this new Society, had
resigned from that position, and that Mr. Savage had sent a friend to
Mrs. Gillett with instructions how to detect the fraud, and that this
friend had caught Mrs. Gillett writing surreptitiously on a slate.
The Secretary then read an account by Mr. Underwood of experi
ments in automatic writing by Mrs. Underwood, and he also read
several other accounts of automatic writing experiments where informa
tion unknown to the writer, and in some cases unknown to any person
present, was given. In connection with these accounts he exhibited
specimens of various forms of instrument designed to facilitate the pro
duction of automatic writing—the planchette, the psychograph, the
ouija, the espirito, the daestu, and the oracle. He stated that Mrs.
Underwood usually wrote with the pen in her hand. Mr. Underwood,
in his introduction to the samples of automatic writing obtained by
Mrs. Underwood, remarked as follows :—
I have been accustomed to regard "automatic" actions as those, the
frequent repetition of which during a long time has caused the nerve group
ings to become closely organised in the brain centres, as when actions are
performed from the force of habit, without consciousness, without thought.
The so-called messages, of which I send samples, are not written automatically
in this sense. They indicate conscious intelligence and directive volition as
much as does ordinary writing ; but these do not seem to be included in the
ordinary normal personality, which neither does the thinking nor moves the
hand. Yet sentences are composed, verses written, and discussions are
carried on with Mrs. Underwood or with me, in a style always indicating
attention, perception, reflection, and reasoning power. In writing, some
times words are erased and others substituted, and occasionally the pen is
moved to words already written, which, connected in thought, serve as
answers to inquiries. The writing is usually more rapid than that of the
conscious self, and the handwritings are different. The physical and mental
condition of the subject during the process is in no way abnormal or unusual.
She questions and criticises as freely as I do. The theories and views
advanced are often at variance with hers and with mine. There is a certain
oracular, authoritative manner of statement, and usually, but not always,
a stronger desire apparently to answer questions and to have the answers
accepted than to submit to close and sharp criticism. But the spirit
exhibited is generally a very kindly one, and sometimes there is entire
readiness to meet criticism. I never have been what is called a " medium,"
and I do not in any way contribute to this writing except by my presence,
which seems to be a necessary condition, and frequently by my attention and
questioning, which are often invited when not volunteered. In my absence
little can be written—only a few words or sentences in slow and laboured
manner. Once in such absence two words were written with letters reversed,
and they could be read only when the writing was held before the mirror. It
March, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 219
was the name of a person 200 miles distant, who was alive but, as was after
wards learned, unconscious and near death, which occurred two or three days
later. The writing does not seem to have any exhausting or depressing
influence on Mrs. Underwood, but I say, after hundreds of experiments,
that if prolonged it leaves me tired and with a nervous feeling.
The apparently extraneous intelligence was at first sometimes inferior
intellectually to the subject, but afterwards and since, in certain lines of
thought and in the use of language, it has evinced larger knowledge than the
conscious self possesses. Words have been written that are obsolete or very
rarely used, the correctness of which has been confirmed by an appeal to the
dictionary. The spelling is often different from that of the conscious self.
The writing always purports to be a departed spirit—a discarnate human
being, and some impatience and annoyance are manifested when I try to
obtain answers on the basis of the theory that the " messages " are from the
subconscious, or subliminal, to the ordinary self.
Much of the writing —indeed, most of it—is such as does not admit of
verification ; some statements written, especially such as related to date,
names, and other details, have been found incorrect. But in other cases the
writing has contained evidence that the directing intelligence possessed
knowledge not derived from the personal experience of the conscious self.
One evening the hand wrote the name of a person whose handwriting Mrs.
Underwood had never seen, and the close resemblance of the writing to the
autograph of the person was surprising. At another time was written plainly
and correctly a name she had never heard of, —the name of the father of a
lady who, with her husband, was present, in reply to a special and urgent
request that the name be written. The gentleman, a lawyer, who took the
writing home with him, wrote me afterwards : " This writing was very, very
similar to the handwriting of the old gentleman. The test to my mind was
quite convincing, more so than almost anything I ever saw, yet I have no
fixed or positive opinion as to how it was done."
I am aware that old memories may be revived undistinguishable from
knowledge newly acquired, and I here carefully avoid referring to any inci
dents which may belong to this class. In the August Arena Mrs. Underwood
gave an instance of her writing a detailed statement of facts relating to
matters of which she knew nothing—statements that were at the time dis
believed by us both, but subsequently learned to be correct in the essential
facts and circumstances.
One of the peculiarities of this so-called message is the frequent assump
tion of great names ; another is generally the impossibility of getting state
ments of facts and circumstances proving the identity of what purports to be
a departed spirit. But the theory that the messages purporting to come from
extra-terrene minds are expressions of the subconscious to the conscious self
is not without difficulties. Why does the subconscious self claim to be a
spirit—a departed spirit—apart from the primary self, and represent itself at
different times as different spirits—now an Emerson, now a slave woman,
now a relative, now a stranger, and write and ascribe messages to scores and
hundreds of dead persons?
The writing contains evidence of knowledge, discrimination, and a moral
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1892.
nature, and it is strange if the subconscious self possesses these qualities in a
degree which enables it to write such messages that it cannot distinguish
between itself and other personalities of high and low order of intelligence.
If the subconscious self can make these distinctions, why does it try to deceive
the secondary consciousness ? Why is the lower self given to deception when
the upper or ordinary self is honest and trustworthy ? If the subconscious
self really imagines it is at one time a departed Indian and at another some
great personage, who passed from earth hundreds of years ago, how shall we
reconcile such a fact with the intelligence and discrimination which it
exhibits in the writing 1 In view of such difficulties, it is not surprising that
many who see this writing by persons whose character and bonafides are
beyond doubt find it easier to believe that the thought comes from, and the
writing is directed by, departed, discarnate intelligent beings. The variety
in the handwritings at different times, the views advanced, occasional state
ments showing knowledge which must have been acquired in some super
normal way, and the persistence with which the controlling intelligences
declare that the messages are from spirits, are plausible proofs to many of
the agency of spirits in producing the writing. But, on the other hand, care
ful students of the experiments of Professors Pierre Janet and Richet, of M.
Binet, of Professor James and others in connection with the general
phenomena of multiple consciousnesses, must be aware of a class of facts
as difficult for Spiritism to explain as is automatic writing on the theory that
the messages come from the subconscious self.
I believe with Mr. Myers, that automatic writing is but one among a
whole series of kindred phenomena (such as word-hearing and word-seeing)
which have been intermittently noted since history began. The explanation
of these phenomena is possible, I believe, by careful collection and study of
all the facts according to the scientific method which has been so successfully
applied to the study of physical phenomena.
The Secretary then read portions of Mr. F. W. H. Myers' paper on
" The Subliminal Consciousness," and described a case of alleged " stig-
matisation" recently occurring in Louisville, Kentucky. He had visited
Louisville for the purpose of investigating the subject—a Mrs. Stucken-
borg, a Roman Catholic —but the ecclesiastical authorities there would
not allow him to see her.
Professor H. P. Bowditch gave an account of the publication by
Professor Schwann of correspondence and notes in connection with
Louise Lateau —case of stigmatisation—in which Professor Schwann
explained that he had been misrepresented by the Roman Catholic
Archbishop as endorsing the miraculous character of the manifestations
of Louise Lateau, whereas he was of the opinion that her phenomena
could be accounted for by natural causes, and he had never expressed
any other opinion on the subject.
The meeting then adjourned.
March, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 221
MEETING IN NEW YORK.
A meeting of the New York Section of the American Branch was
held in the rooms of Columbia College, on Wednesday, February 10th,
at 8 p.m., Professor William James in the chair. About 400 persons
present.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, the Secretary of the New York Section,
read the minutes of the previous meeting, which were approved. The
Secretary of the American Branch gave a general statement of the
finances of the Society, and the Vice-President of the Section explained
the objects of the Society and its desire to increase its membership and
influence.
Professor James delivered an address, briefly stating the results of
the Census of Hallucinations, and at some length explaining the
importance of the Society's work.
The Secretary of the Branch then read the papers by Mr. Under
wood and others on automatic writing, previously read at the meeting
in Boston.
After some discussion and replies to questions the meeting ad
journed.
Richard Hodgson,
Secretary of the American Branch of the S. P. R.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
The three cases which follow are all cases of unrecognised apparitions,,
or what were taken for such, collectively seen by two or more perci
pients. The theoretical importance and interest of such cases is plain,
and has been well shown in Phantasms of the Living (chap, xviii., and
elsewhere).
G. 200. Collective. Visual. —.Unrecognised.
The following account of his experience was written by the Rev.
J. Spurgeon Green, to a lady who is much interested in the work of
the Society.
Witton Rectory, Norwich. August 25th, 1886.
I have much pleasure in acceding to your request, and I will therefore
write down as accurately as I can the account of the appearance seen by
myself and Ella on the 22nd September, 1886, in "Shack Lane," when riding
home together. We had been for a long ride—I on my horse, and she on
her Shetland pony, and my retriever was with us. We had arrived nearly
at the end of the lane, Ella about 10 yards in front—riding close to the
fence, which at this part and side of the lane was very high and thick, and
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1S92.
quite impenetrable by either man or horse in a hurry. We may have been
20 yards from the end, where the lane is crossed at right angles by another
lane, leading on to the high road and coming out on to the high road at Witton
Inn, when I missed my dog, and was going to call to Ella to ask if he had
passed in front— or I did call to her—when I suddenly saw a man at the
head of Ella's pony—coming to meet her ; and as she met him riding very
close to the fence, he seemed to me to step into the fence and vanish. Ella
put her pony into a trot to the end of the lane, i.e., about 5 yards, pulled up,
and said, "Did you see that man 1 He passed the head of Brownie, and has
disappeared. Where can he have got to 1 "
It seems that we were closer to the end of the lane than I at first thought
or could see —as it was rapidly getting dusk, the time being 7.15,—and what I
took to be a man stepping into the fence to avoid being ridden against was, to
Ella's eyes 10 yards ahead of me, a man passing her pony's head within 5 or
6 yards of her as he crossed the head of the lane, going from C towards D,
A being Ella's position ; B mine, 10 yards in rear of her. A man coming
from C to D, would, turning his face towards Ella's pony, naturally look up
the lane from which we were coming. We both saw a man with a slouch
hat—an old-fashioned shepherd's frock, seemingly grey in colour, and with
dark legs. The face I could not distinguish ; neither did Ella.
I rode on quickly round the corner towards the high road, to see if the man
had run, and then turned back to the comer. I went the next morning and
carefully examined the bank and fence to see if there was any place a man
could get through, and there was no place where it was possible. Ella said,
"Very queer, but was it a ghost ? " She says she could hear no footsteps, but
the man seemed to glide past her pony. I think she saw him longer than I
did, as she saw him come out of the lane to the right, and cross the whole
opening of the lane we were in. On reaching home, Ella asked my
gardener if he had ever heard any tales of Shack Lane being haunted. "Oh,
yes, miss," he said. " It is said to be haunted by the ghost of a carter, in a
smock frock, who was murdered there long ago." Whether this murder tale
has any foundation I cannot say, but I am convinced that whatever Ella and
March, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 223
I saw that night was not a mortal man. I have, with Ella and also by
myself, waited at the corner several times since, but we have never seen the
apparition since, I have asked Ella to write down her account of what we
saw, independently of this.
J. Spurgeon Green.
I saw the man seemingly meeting Ella so distinctly, barring his face, that
I thought to myself, Oh, here comes a man, and he will be able to say
whether he has met my dog. Neither of us thought there was anything odd
in the appearance, the oddness was in the disappearance of the man. The only
discrepancy in our accounts is the fact that he seemed to me to step into the
fence to avoid being trodden on by Ella's pony, and to her he seemed to
cross the head of the pony and disappear past the corner of the lane ; but
there is, I think, no real discrepancy, as it was too dusk for me to distinguish
the corner and what seemed to me stepping into the fence seemed to Ella
naturally crossing the head of the lane.
J. S. G.
P.S.—Ella has read this, and says that I have told the tale as it seemed to
her, as well as to myself.
J. S. G.
In a later letter, January 18th, 1892, Mr. Green writes to us :—
You are perfectly at liberty to make any use you please of my communi
cation to Mrs. Brown respecting the strange appearance to myself and
daughter on September 22nd, 1886. I can learn nothing and hear nothing
that can fling any light on the occurrence. Of course I have not made
a practice of speaking about it to my parishioners, as many of them are
very much afraid of, as they say, " meeting ghosts."
I cannot, either, learn anything about the supposed murder. All I can
make out is that the lane is supposed to be haunted by something. I am
firmly convinced that the figure we so distinctly saw was not that of a living
G. 201. Collective. Visual.—Unrecognised.
The place where the following incident occurred is a very modern
London house. Dr. Kingston, who obtained the narrative for us, tells
us that "the young ladies looked out for the apparition on the same
night of the following year, but saw nothing." We may assume,
therefore, that at any rate mere expectation was not sufficient to pro
duce the impression.
July 31st, 1891.
On the night of November 1st, 1889, between 9.30 and 10 p.m., my
three sisters and myself left our library, where we had spent the evening,
and proceeded upstairs to our bedrooms. On reaching my room, which is on
the second floor, I and a sister went to the mantelpiece in search of the
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1892.
matchbox, in order to light the gas. I must here explain that my bedroom
opens into my mother's, and the door between the two rooms was open.
There was no light beyond that which glimmered through the venetian
blinds in each room. As I stood by the mantelpiece I was awe-struck by the-
sudden appearance of a figure gliding noiselessly towards me from the outer
room. The appearance was that of a young man, of middle height, dressed
in dark clothes, and wearing a peaked cap. His face was very pale, and
his eyes downcast as though deep in thought. His mouth was shaded by a
dark moustache. The face was slightly luminous, which enabled us to
distinguish the features distinctly, although we were without a light of any
kind at the time.
The apparition glided onwards towards my sisters, who were standing
inside the room, quite close to the outer door, and who had first caught
sight of it, reflected in the mirror. When within a few inches from them it
vanished as suddenly as it appeared. As the figure passed we distinctly felt
a cold air which seemed to accompany it. We have never seen it again,
and cannot account in any way for the phenomenon.
One of my sisters did not see the apparition, as she was looking the
other way at the moment, but felt a cold air ; the other two, however, were
eye-witnesses with myself to the fact.
f Louisa F. Du Cane.
J F. A. Du Cane.
Signed by < M Du Cane
I C. A. Du Cane.
August 4&h, 1891.
Answers to questions [asked by Dr. Kingston] respecting apparition.
There was no light of any kind in passage outside the rooms.
We had not been talking or thinking of ghosts during the evening, or
reading anything exciting ; neither were we the least nervous.
None of us had ever before been startled by anything unexpected in the
dark or twilight.
It was not light enough to see each other's faces, as the only illumination
there was came through the venetian blinds, which were drawn down.
It was myself, Louisa Du Cane, who first saw the apparition.
We three sisters who saw it exclaimed at the same moment, and found
we had seen the same thing.
My sister Mary did not see the figure, as she was looking the other way
at the time, but felt distinctly, as did the rest of us, a sensation of cold when
the figure passed us.
We did not recognise the figure as anybody we had ever seen.
We did not afterwards hear of any event that we could connect with the
appearance.
Louisa F. Du Cane.
Mrs. Sidgwick writes :—
The Misses Du Cane kindly allowed me to call on them on December 2nd,
1891, and showed me the rooms where their experience occurred. The
March, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 225
following is a rough plan of them, the dotted line showing the course
apparently taken by the figure.
c D
1 1
"'b 1 . - i
< s
y
4
F
E
)
\
^
B
B /
A, A, A, windows. B, B, B, doors. C, mantelpiece by which Miss Louisa
Du Cane stood. D, mantelpiece with mirror over it, in which Misses F. and 0. Du Cane
first saw the figure. E, place where I was told a bookcase stood at the time of the
incident. F, approximate position of Misses F. and C. Du Cane.
Miss Louisa Du Cane, standing by the mantelpiece of her room, would
have a direct view of anyone standing by the window of her mother's room,
where the figure first appeared. Her sisters, standing at F, or thereabouts,
would have a reflected view, and no direct view till the figure got nearly
opposite the glass.
I saw the room in daylight, but was told that at night it was to some
extent lighted ("like moonlight") by the street lamp opposite. Miss L.
Du Cane saw the face better than the natural light would have enabled her
to do. Her sisters, I gathered, saw the figure clearly but not the face.
The dress, so far as seen, might have been that of, say, a purser on board a
merchant steamer. The figure did not suggest to them any person they
had ever seen, and its dress and appearance had no associations for them.
Its arms were held away from the body, so that they saw the light between
—about as a man's arms would be if his hands were in his pockets. They
did not see the hands. I think it is doubtful how much of detail each lady
observed independently at the time, especially as they were a good deal
startled and agitated, or how much the several impressions may have
got defined and harmonised in recollection afterwards. The figure seems to
have moved quietly towards them from the window.
There were no curtains, except a white muslin one, nor other objects
making explanation by illusion plausible. It can hardly have been a real
man, because a real man, having no business there, would not have come to
wards them. They believe, too, that they would have heard a real man
going up or down the stairs, which were at the time uncarpeted, they having
only recently come to the house. Moreover, had he gone downstairs he
would have been met by Mrs. Du Cane, who came up from the drawing-room
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1892
at once on hearing her daughters call out. There was no man living in the
house.
It seems to me to have been a genuine and interesting case of collective
visual hallucination, but a case where the circumstances admit of the
hypothesis that the words or gestures of the first percipient may have pro
duced the hallucination in the others by " suggestion." We have, however,
no direct evidence of their being "suggestible" in this way, and subsequent
attempts to see the ghost—sitting in the room in the dark, &c.—produced
no result.
Miss M. Du Cane, who did not see the figure, appears to have been
deterred by alarm from looking in its direction.
G. 202. Collective. Visual.—Unrecognised.
Mr. Myers, in sending this case, writes :—" I have talked to Miss
Quilty, a schoolmistress, well known to me, on the subject."
I, with a young friend, was invited to spend Sunday and Sunday evening
at a farmhouse in a certain English county. We attended evening service
at the Wesleyan Chapel, and after supper were shown to our room, which
was the spare bedroom of the house. This was a long narrow room with
one window looking into the garden. As you entered the room the bed was
on the left-hand side, the window on the right, the foot of the bed towards
the window and about four feet from the door, and the bed itself close to the
same side of the wall in which was the door. The bed was an old-fashioned
four-poster, with heavy curtains, which were not drawn. There was a space
between the bed and the opposite wall of about three feet. It was a clear,
still July night between ten and eleven o'clock, nearer the latter hour than
the former. We were both lying on our left side, facing the wall, which was
three feet distant, and I, to speak for myself, nearly asleep. In an instant,
without the interchange of a word, we both turned over on to our right side.
My companion hurriedly asked if I had seen anything. Knowing she was
nervous and rather inclined to be hysterical, I prevaricated. "Seen any
thing 1 Such nonsense. What is there to see 1 " This was as much to
reassure myself as to allay my friend's fears. I knew well what I had seen.
Standing back in the wall I had seen a little old woman, with a white, clear
muslin handkerchief neatly arranged on her shoulders ; a white bordered
cap fitting close to a sweet, calm face, her arms folded, and an apron of the
same material as the kerchief. I kept persuading myself that my imagina
tion had played me a trick. I knew well how nervous and hysterical my
companion was and if I let her know of my fears I might have to rouse the
good people of the house, and for certain reasons I was reluctant to do this.
Waking next morning, I asked my companion, "Did you see anything
last night?" "Yes. Did you 1" she replied. "I did." " What did you
see ? " she asked. " What did ycm see ? " was my reply. I would not give
my impressions till I had hers. Strange to relate, my companion had seen
exactly the same vision, spectre, ghost, or what else you like to name it.
(Signed) Ellen Quilty.
Radwinter, November 23rd, 1891.
March, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 227
In reply to further inquiries Miss Quilty writes that the date of the
occurrence was the early part of July, 1870, and that she has never had
any other hallucinations. Her friend's account follows. It will be
seen that there is a little disagreement as to the date and other details,
which is not surprising at this distance of time.
In October, 1871, myself and Miss Quilty were staying with Mr. and Mrs.
Slight, at an old-fashioned farmhouse in Hingsmills, a village close to the
Lincolnshire coast. We had been there to tea previously, but had never slept
there before or knew anything of the people who had lived or died there
previously.
We retired to rest about the usual farmhouse hours. We slept in an old-
fashioned four-post bedstead, at about 4ft. from the wall. In the centre of
the wall, at the side of the bed, was a cupboard.
We had been in bed about half an hour when I looked towards the door
of the cupboard. I saw a little, ruddy-faced old lady, with a frilled white cap
on her head, a white handkerchief folded round her neck, and a white apron,
as if she was sitting with her hands folded on her lap. It seemed almost as if
it were a painting on the door ; it looked exactly as if it were living. I gave
a sudden start, and said to Miss Quilty, ' ' Did you see anything ? " and her
answer was the same, "Did you see anything 1 " I related to her what I had
seen, and Miss Quilty had seen exactly the same as myself; our rest was dis
turbed for the night. On relating our story, the next morning, it proved the
exact likeness of the farmer's mother, who had lived there before them, and
died in that bedroom.
A true story. S. Moore.
THE WATERPORD GHOST.
There have been accounts recently in the Dublin papers of a family
haunted by " unearthly noises " and afflicted by having their furniture and
effects thrown about and broken. The disturbances began about January 6th,
in a house at Carriglea, near Passage East, which they occupied as care
takers, and when alarm caused them to remove to Costelloe's-lane, Waterford,
the disturbances followed them there. The assistance of the police had been
sought, and, according to the newspapers, the phenomena had continued in
their presence notwithstanding precautions taken by them. This, however,
seems to be an exaggeration.
Mr. J. W. Hayes, Honorary Associate of our Society, undertook to investi
gate the matter, and went to Waterford for the purpose on February 1st,
"determined," as he says, "to test the following probable theories to
account for the doings of the Waterford Ghost : —(1) The sounds were pro
duced by what Mr. Crookes calls psychic force, or some other kindred force
of which some person in the house was the medium. (2) The sounds, &c.,
were due to collective hallucination on an overwrought nervous character.
(3) The sounds were produced by some tricks of outsiders. (4) The sounds
were produced by unseen intelligences. (5) The sounds were produced by a
servant or some of the family for a purpose." This last is the conclusion he
quickly arrived at. The full report of his investigations is deposited at the
rooms of the Society, and we give here the main points.
The haunted family had left Waterford some days before Mr. Hayes
went there, but he saw the police and the neighbours. No disturbances
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [March, 1892.
occurred, it appears, at any time while the police were on the spot except
that on one occasion at Carriglea knocks occurred as if made with a stick on
a door in the next room in which the eldest child of the family, a boy of 14,
named Johnny, was. There seems to be no evidence that phenomena ever
occurred beyond the reach or the power of Johnny. The police had evidence
to show that whatever agency produced the phenomena used very human
means. Thus the cross-pieces which had been knocked off a door in
Costelloe's-lane bore marks " as if they had been repeatedly and heavily
struck with a blunt instrument or were hammered off," and the head of a
hatchet found in the house " had distinct reddish paint marks just as if it had
been used to crush painted timber," the colour of the paint on the hatchet
and the cross-piece of the door exactly corresponding.
Two neighbours, a man and his wife, had, when in the house at different
times, seen Johnny throwing about the things and pretending not to have
done so. They gave Mr. Hayes independently detailed accounts of what
they had observed. Another person is said to have seen Johnny in the act
of throwing things, but Mr. Hayes did not succeed in meeting him.
It seems further to be generally agreed that though the father, a timid
and credulous person, was much alarmed, and believed the disturbances to
be due to the spirit of a dead man named Hannington, Johnny and his
mother were not in the least nervous or frightened by the proceedings of the
"ghost." Finally we may add that the effect of the disturbances has been to
induce the father to give up his caretaking jobs, leave the neighbourhood,
and remove with his family to—as it is believed—the part of the country
where his wife's relations live.
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Dear Sir, —I desire with your kind permission to make a few observa
tions on two points which are presented in two cases—one (A) of an
apparent apparition, the other (B) connected with spirit communication at a
seance—which are quoted by Mr. F. W. H. Myers, the first (A) in Part XV.,
p. 25, in the article "On Recognised Apparitions Occurring More than a
Year after Death " ; the second (B) in Part XVI., p. 343, in the article on
"A Defence of Phantasms of the Dead" (Appendix). One of the two
points bears upon the immediate destiny of the soul ; the second on an
apparent instance of evolution—or growth—in a departed spirit—in case B.
As the two cases (A and B) now stand, the point that bears on the
immediate destiny of the soul presents a very embarrassing perplexity, since
it seems to confirm the truth of divergent beliefs, or dogmas, held by opposed
Christian Churches and, at the same time, to suggest a doubt as to the truth
of either. Before quoting extracts from either case it will be as well to
make clear the nature of the point under observation. It is, I may venture
to say, the general belief among members of the Protestant Church (in which
I include Nonconformists of all denominations) that a death-bed repentance,
with belief in Christ, is efficacious in saving the soul, and moreover, that
the soul so saved passes at once into a state of eternal happiness. But this
belief, or dogma, is entirely opposed to that held by the Roman and Greek
Churches. That is, according to the Protestant Church a soul enters at
once into either a state of everlasting happiness or punishment ; while, on
the other hand, the Roman and Greek Churches teach that every soul must
go to purgatory, where it is purified by expiating such offences committed
in this life as do not merit eternal damnation. A soul, too, according to
March, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 229
the latter Churches, may be released from this purgatorial prison on the
prayers of the priests and others who are anxious for its repose.
Now these two beliefs are evidently contradictory, and as each party, on
this point, doggedly declares the other to be in deadly error, even the
passive recognition of the truth of both is about the last thing analysts of
psychical phenomena of the Society for Psychical Research could be thought
capable of admitting as veridical communications. In case A the vision is of
a consolatory nature, and was, most certainly, believed by the narrator to
have been a direct answer to prayer under Divtne permission. But permission
in this sense is distinctly uncountenanced by Mr. Myers. On this point, in
Part XV. , p. 14, he observes : ' ' Briefly, then, the popular view regards a
' ghost ' as a deceased person permitted by Providence to hold communication
with survivors. And this short definition contains, I think, three unwarrant
able assumptions.
"In the first place, such words as permission and Providence are simply
neither more nor less applicable to this phenomenon than to any other. We
conceive that all phenomena alike take place in accordance with the laws of
the universe ;—and consequently by permission of the Supreme Power in
the universe. Undoubtedly the phenomena with which we are dealing are
in this sense permitted to occur. But there is no a priori reason whatever
for assuming that they are permitted in any especial sense of their own.
Nor is there any a posteriori reason for thus supposing, —any such inference
deducible from a study of the phenomena themselves. If we attempt to find
in these phenomena any poetical justice, or manifest adaptation to human
cravings, we shall be just as much disappointed as if we endeavoured to find
a similar satisfaction in the ordinary course of terrene history. "
The attitude of the Society's investigators is here very plainly indicated.
The impression made on the mind of Mr. Myers by case A (the vision of
consolation) may also be quoted as having an important bearing on the point
under consideration. On page 25 he observes : "It is noteworthy that one
of the percipients in this case1 (p. 26) has already experienced a ' vision of
consolation ' under circumstances of strong emotion. Taken by itself, that
consolatory vision might certainly have been classed as purely subjective.
But the fact that the only other hallucination which this percipient experi
enced was (as I should myself hold) a veridical one, may inspire some doubt
as to whether that earlier vision also may not have some veridical basis."
I may now quote some extracts from A and B, which bear on the point in
question. Case A : " My father's sorrow was great [at the closely following
death of his two sons] ; and at the same time he became seriously troubled
with many doubts regarding various points of Christian faith, and so gradually
lost nearly all his buoyancy of spirit, and became sadly depressed. For a
year he thus suffered, when it was arranged that, as soon as he could plan to
leave home, he should go to some seaside place. . . ." The writer,
meantime, went to South Devonshire, but from whence she received "a
sudden summons [which] brought her back to find her father dead." Natur
ally she was much distressed at this sudden loss, and she thus describes her
state of mind after retiring to bed. "I was lying in deepest anguish, beset
not only with the grief of the sudden loss sustained, but with the wretched
fear that my beloved father had died too suddenly to find peace with God,
regarding those miserable doubts that had so troubled him." She goes onto
describe how, in the early morning, after kneeling in prayer, and earnestly
pleading that her distrustful doubts might be taken away, she was vouchsafed
a vision of her father, "absolutely transfigured, clothed with brightness. He
'An apparition seen by the percipient of the vision of consolation, and by her
husband.
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mabch, 1892.
slowly moved towards the bed, raising his hands, as I thought, to clasp me in
his arms ; and I ejaculated 'Father!' He replied, ' Blessed for ever, my
child ! For ever blessed ! ' . . . I felt sure that Cod had vouchsafed
to me a wonderful vision, and was not in the least afraid, but, on the
contrary, full of a joy that brought floods of grateful tears, and completely
removed all anguish except that of having lost my father from earth.
That is, this vision, if it is to be regarded as otherwise than purely sub
jective, records a direct answer to prayer, and a proof of the percipient's
special belief - a death-bed reconciliation with God and immediate entry
into eternal happiness. And this is the interpretation that would be given
to it by the Protestant Church.
Now for the psychical aspect of case B. (Case II. [M. aut. 13], p. 343,
Part XVI.) " On January 19th, 1887 (says M. Aksakof), I received a visit
from the engineer Kaigorodoff, who resides in Wilna. He narrated to me
the following circumstances. He had a governess for his children, Mile.
Emma Stramm, a Swiss, from the town of Neufchatel, who possessed the gift
of automatic writing. At a seance held at nine o'clock on the evening of
January 15th, at the house of Herr Kaigorodoff, at Wilna, the following
communication was given in French in his presence. I have been shown
the original and quote this from a copy of it. The medium, who was in her
normal state, asked :—.
" 'Is Lydia here 1 ' (This was a personality which had manifested itself
at previous sittings.)
" ' No, Louis is here, and wishes to impart a piece of news (tme nouvelle)
to his sister.'
"'Whatisitr
" 'A person of thy acquaintance passed away {estpartie) about three o'clock
to-day.'
" ' What am I to understand by this ? '
" ' That is to say, —he is dead.'
"'Who?'
" ' August Duvanel.'
" ' What was his illness 1 '
"' The formation of a clot of blood (d'ltn engorgement dnt sang). Pray
for the redemption, of his soul.' "
That is, the meaning of the latter sentence, if it is to be taken as
veridical, would be interpreted by the Roman and Greek Churches as a
confirmation of their belief as to the immediate destiny of the soul—to
purgatory.
Now, as the death of Duvanel (by suicide, however, and not from the
formation of a clot of blood) receives in this narrative an apparently indepen
dent confirmation by other persons, there may, at first sight, seem to be
some warrant for classing this communication from "Louis" as veridical.
But there is a footnote appended, which presents an amazing phenomenon
suggestive of a great doubt as to the existence of "Louis" himself.
The note runs—as an explanation why "Louis" communicated at the
seance instead of "Lydia"—thus: " The name of a deceased brother of
the medium, who usually manifests at her seances. Louis died in 1809,
aged eleven months. At the beginning of the seances, about the end of
1880, he was the first to communicate, announcing himself as his sister's
' spirit protector. '—A. A. "
Here, then, we surely have a clear case of spirit evolution, or growth,
under the same conditions observable in the growth of a babe to manhood
in physical existence. " Louis " died aged eleven months, and at the age of
seventeen years he communicates with his sister as an educated youth, who
not only speaks French but exhibits a knowledge of this special dogma of
March, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 231
the Roman and Greek Churches, and seems to know pretty well what is going
on on either side of the veil.
This is a bare statement of the case, and as such, pending explanation
from Mr. Myers, I leave it.
Joseph Kirk.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Sir,—Mr. Kirk's letter touches on certain problems of deep interest.
Those problems, indeed, lie outside any realm of knowledge which we can at
present hope to attack by scientific methods, or to reduce to evidential form.
Yet, with the Editor's permission, I am glad to say a few words on them in
the tentative and informal tone which this private Journal is designed to
encourage.
First, however, and speaking from the purely evidential point of view,
I must try to explain the apparent inconsistencies to which Mr. Kirk has
called attention. He quite truly shows (1) that although disclaiming the
idea of special Providential intervention in the case of revenants in general,
I nevertheless incline to believe that a phantom of a departed father was in
some sense invoked by jirayer ; (2) and also that I quote as veridical two
cases where the communicating intelligences give apparently discrepant
accounts of the state of the soul after death ;—in one instance implying
immediate bliss, and in the other instance a state of further probation,
capable of being benefited by the survivor's prayer. His further objection
(3) to the idea that a soul passing away in infancy can develop in the next
world, is, I take it, based only upon the supposed intrinsic improbability of
such development.
I reply, then, that as to the efficacy of prayer, I conceive that prayer or
strong desire on the part of a percipient may have two effects. It may
generate a falsidical or it may facilitate a veridical apparition. It may
delude the percipient into translating his own inward hopes into an imagined
external communication. Or, on the other hand, it may conceivably transfer
to some external mind the stimulus necessary to enable such communication
really to take place. It thus tends to make a true apparition slightly more
probable, but at the same time it tends to spoil the evidence for such a
phenomenon. Thus m the case mentioned, where I hold it possible that the
daughter's longing may really have helped the father's manifestation, I
should not have ventured to suggest this possibility had not this experience
of hers been supplemented by a more evidential experience some years later,
which seems to show that she possessed the temperament, whatever it be,
for which veridical apparitions are possible. But in no view of the case, I
think, is any theological deduction from the narrative permissible. For
there is nothing to tell us that the daughter's longing to see her father
reached any mind except his own.
Next, as to the apparently divergent statements made by alleged sur
viving intelligences. In the first place, I think that the admittedly symbolic
character of all these messages from the unseen—their obvious accommoda
tion to, or commixture with, the previous beliefs of the various percipients —
would amply prepare us for even greater discrepancies than Mr. Kirk has
pointed out. This view has been so fully expounded by Mr. Gurney in chapter
xii. of Phantasms of the Living that I need not further dwell on it here. I
have myself kept this probably symbolic character of the messages in mind
throughout, and have forborne to assume, for instance, that the baby con
trol, "Louis, "was a real personage ;— was anything more than a mere projec
tion of the automatic writer's subliminal self. The question of what "Louis"
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mabch, 1892
really was—like the question of what " Phinuit " really is, —however
interesting in itself, does not directly affect the coincidental or veridical
character of the messages communicated under those names.
The difficulty of construing these messages with any certainty is curiously
illustrated by the fact that I cannot myself see any real discrepancy between
the two statements which Mr. Kirk quotes as divergent. I had not myself
supposed (although Mr. Kirk has quite a right to suppose it) that when the
agnostic father exclaimed ' ' Blessed for ever ! " he had meant to imply a death-
ted return to orthodoxy. On the contrary, I had imagined him to mean
that he now found that his agnosticism had not stood in his way in the future
life, and that he was happy in spite of it. Nor need such beatitude exclude
his desiring (like the so-called " Louis ") the continuance of earthly prayers
for him, —of that earnest direction of his daughter's desire which had already
helped him to turn upon her the gaze of consoling love.
But, after all, assume that these messages are to be taken literally ; —
assume that they do really imply divergent religious views on the part of
departed spirits ;—what reason have we to suppose that departed spirits at
once discover either that their creeds have been true, or that their creeds
have been mistaken ? Humannm est errare may still be true beyond the
tomb. Far be it from any of us to cling so fixedly to any dogmatic opinion
as to incur 'the fate of those Solifidians whom Swedenborg saw seated in
eternal conclave, and perpetually quoting to one another texts in support of
their favourite tenet ! For these earnest men did not perceive that the
furniture of their spiritual dwelling-place had gradually disappeared, and
that they were seated in a kind of outhouse, and round a kitchen table.
Dark figures, too, had begun to move in the background ; but these figures
the Solifidians, when Swedenborg left them, were still too much engrossed to
perceive.
Swedenborg's realistic conception of spiritual retribution may lie for us
between a jest and a parable. But I would not quit such topics as Mr.
Kirk has started with any admixture of jest. I feel with him that it is
right to hope that sooner or later our investigations may throw some light,
not only upon new laws of the universe, but upon the moral duty, the
spiritual destiny of man. And no more than Mr. Kirk himself do I suppose
that any such new light can degrade our best conceptions as to the efficacy of
prayer. Rather than suppose that all prayer is bootless, I would say that
in some sense there may be no power but prayer. On earth we know
nothing stronger than the confluence and concourse of a multitude of high
desires ;—the flow of many hearts towards some mighty end. And in that
world which lies behind appearances we may perhaps discern that the true
basis and correlative of all apparent forces lies in some energy of the spirit ;
—some energy which may inform all extremes of operation, from the weak
affinities and narrow oscillations which sway our feeble souls up to motions
of vaster amplitude, — up to some Will compared with which the will of all
mankind may be but as the axial spin of a petty planet, —swept on the
while in some cosmic star-stream, with the drift of the Pleiads or in the
Bear. And, lastly—to turn to the question of continued evolution after
death—we surely may suppose that as the eternal process ripens the onward
struggle of our enfranchised spirit will become not weaker but more strong.
More and more will our innermost felicity be one with our unattained
desire.
" Blessed for ever ! " did that phantom say? And how can a soul be
blessed for ever, unless for ever she arise and travel on? or what better than
eternal death were any imaginable eternity which was not an eternity
of progress, and therefore an eternity of hope ?
F. W. H. M.
3fo. LXXXIX.—vol. v. [April, 1892.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
New Members and Associates 233
Meeting of the Council 234
'General Meeting 234
An Appeal to Non'informants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 235
aCorrespondence: Self-Suggestion, Spirit-Photography, &c 236
Cases Received by the Literary Committee 230
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases 247
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Mackenzie, J. Kenneth D., Broadway Chambers, Westminster, S.W.
McAlpine, Mrs., Garscadden, Bearsden, near Glasgow.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
Despard, Miss, 77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington, W.
ASSOCIATES.
Barrett, Rev. Canon, M.A., St. Margaret's Vicarage, Lincoln.
Cole, Alfred C, M.A., 64, Portland-place, W.
Cruise, F.R., M.D., 93, Merrion-square, Dublin.
Goodier, Miss B. M., Fulshaw Bank, Wilmslow, Cheshire.
aGroom, Ernest, Dothill Park, Wellington. Salop.
Leete, Miss, 75, Ladbroke-grove, Kensington Park, W.
Leete, Miss L., 75, Ladbroke-grove, Kensington Park, W.
Marshall, Thomas, Leeds Library, Commercial-street, Leeds.
Merrilees, J. F., M.D., Auburn, Victoria.
Whately, Mrs. Henry, 14, Campden House-road, Kensington, W.
Woeikow, Alexis, Moika 28, St. Petersburg.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEMBERS.
Dow, Alexander, 139, Columbus-avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Thaw, Mrs. A. Blair, 25, East 77th-street, New York, U.S.A
ASSOCIATES.
Goddard, Mrs. Moses, 25, Brown-st., Providence, Rhode Island. U.S.A.
Hamilton-Williams, Mrs. Alice, 37, East 50th-st, New York, U.S.A.
James, Mrs. C. E. L., c/o B. Luce, Esq., 10th and Chestnut Streets,
Fort Smith, Arkansas, U.S.A.
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1892.
Kilner, Mrs. Samuel K, 59, West 92nd-street, New York, U.S.A.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Metcalf, Mrs. J. H., 81, Angell-st., Providence, Rhode Island, U.S.A.
Parsons, John E., M.D., 6, Grove-street, Ayer, Mass., U.S.A.
Bayson, Miss Amy, B.A., New York, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on April 8th. In the absence
of the President, Mr. Thos. Barkworth was voted to the chair. There
were also present : Professor O. J. Lodge, F.R.S., Dr. A. T. Myers,
and Messrs. W. Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, and F. Podmore.
On the proposition of Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Miss Despard, of 77,
Chesterton-road, North Kensington, was elected an Honorary Associate
for the current year. Two new Members and eleven new Associates
were elected. The election of two new Members and eight new
Associates of the American Branch was recorded. Names and
addresses are given above.
Several presents to the Library were reported, which were directed
to be duly acknowledged.
Some other matters of business having been disposed of, the
Council agreed to meet at 19, Buckingham-street, on Friday, May 27th,.
at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 52nd General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, April 8th, at 4 p.m. The chair was
taken by Professor Lodge.
Mr. Myers gave an address on " Hypermnesic Dreams," which was
a further instalment of his paper on the subliminal consciousness. He
gave as a definition of sleep that it is a reversion to an earlier stage of
our personality. Hence he said he should expect to find in it indica
tions of hyperesthesia, and of increase of suggestive power ; and as to
memory, that dream memory will be between the memory of our waking
state and of hypnotic trance, that it will fill up lacunae of waking
memory' which sometimes occur owing to injury or shock and that
dream memory will be fuller than waking memory, and things
forgotten will reappear in hypermnesic dreams. He illustrated these
various points and gave instances of lost things being found through
dreams, some of which could be explained by a revival of memory, and
others which seemed to require the supposition of a previous subconscious
April, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 235
perception in the waking state, since the position of the lost object had
certainly never been consciously known to the dreamer though it had
been within his range of vision.
The Chairman, speaking of Mr. Myers's brilliant series of papers on
the subliminal consciousness, said he understood him to be sketching a
sort of skeleton hypothesis, with niches in it, in which could be pro
visionally arranged and classified a number of the facts with which our
Society had to deal. It was necessary in scientific investigation to
construct tentative hypotheses, though it was not always necessary to
publish them. Sometimes, however, when the subjects dealt with were
complicated and obscure and but little understood it might be desirable
to do so.
Mr. Myers then read an anonymous paper—" Records of a
Haunted House "—by a lady known to him and who was the chief
percipient in the case. It was an account of an apparition frequently
seen between the years 1882 and 1889, in a certain house, by a number
of people, and sometimes by two together.
AN APPEAL TO NON-INFORMANTS.
We have reason to believe that in spite of the urgent requests for
further information on all the subjects comprised within the range of
our Society's work, which appear monthly on the cover of this Journal,
and have been reiterated on many other occasions, it still sometimes
happens that our Members and Associates become possessed of interest
ing testimony, or have an opportunity of fruitful experiment, of which
they send no information whatever either to the Society's Secretaries
or to the Editor of this Journal. In some cases we have accidentally
discovered that this was so ; and the non-informant, if I may so term
him, has excused himself on the ground that he supposed that we had
already got enough cases of that kind,—had tried these experiments
sufficiently often. Now this is far indeed from representing the view
of those who are carrying on the Society's work in England or America.
Our object is not merely—as some of our correspondents seem to think—
to convince ourselves that certain remarkable phenomena occur; nor
to convince the Members of the Society; nor even—to mention a still
distant goal—to convince the whole scientific world. We want not only
to register these phenomena but also to understand them. And
assuredly in proportion as we do begin to understand them—in pro
portion as we begin to have hope that they may some day be set forth
not as isolated marvels, but as integral portions of an orderly scheme of
things—in equal proportion do we feel the need of a far wider range of
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1892.
evidence, a far richer material for any induction which is to lead us
safely toward ultimate Law.
We endeavour to publish as much as we can, within the limits
imposed by paucity of workers, inadequacy of funds. But imme
diate publication is not the only use to which evidence sent to us may
profitably be put. Much which cannot at once be used should be
stored in our archives ; there should be a fund on which our successors
as well as ourselves may be able to draw.
But perhaps I am refining too much as to the reasons why
possible informants neglect to communicate their information. Per
haps the " bottom fact " is simply that it is too much trouble to put
pen to paper. Perhaps, as the German professor phrased it, "The
ghost is willing but the meat is weak." With that weakness I have
a deep fellow-feeling ; but we must all exhort each other to overcome
it. Here is the real crux of our enterprise. People have sometimes
spoken to me with sympathy of the aversion and contempt which my
chosen studies were doomed—not unnaturally, as they seemed to
think—to encounter. But I have always felt that it was not in that
direction that my complaint against the human race would lie. "Alas !"
I have been tempted to answer—slightly modifying the words of a
favourite poet :—
"Alas, the indolence of men
Has oftenest left me mourning ! "
I may add that small informal gatherings are now generally held on
Wednesday afternoons and evenings at the rooms of the Society, for
the purpose of experiment and of the communication of facts. Any
Member or Associate wishing to be present at these meetings is requested
to write to Mr. G. A. Smith at the rooms.
F. W. H. M.
CORRESPONDENCE.
SELF-SUGGESTION.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Societt for Psychical Research.
Dear Sir,—May I suggest that a large field of most interesting observa
tion is open to those who wish to observe the phenomena supposed to be pro
duced by self-suggestion, in the facts of which the most striking examples
are given in the experiences of "Faith Healer?" and "Christian Scientists."
I do not mention either them or their methods in any spirit of disparagement,
being myself a believer in the mysteries of prayer ; neither do I wish to vouch
for the truth of all their theories, which in the case of the last body seem to
be a fusion of mystical paradoxes with rather mixed philosophy. But it
seems to me that they have somehow hit empirically upon what I cannot
help thinking may prove to be real methods for applying psychical force both
April, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 237
to themselves and to others. Divested of any peculiar wording—and the
Christian Scientists seem to delight in calling old things by new names—
their method seems to be this : Concentrate your thought upon a desired or
undesired result, and expect the result to take place, and it very likely will
take place. Thus, if you are afraid of catching influenza, and are always
thinking about it and expecting to catch it, you probably will do so ; as the
condemned criminal, told he was to sleep for a night in the bed of a cholera
patient, and put into a bed perfectly free from all infection, is said to have
died of cholera before the morning. Again, Edward Irving went into the
pulpit with cholera symptoms upon him, concentrated his thoughts upon
delivering his message before he succumbed, expected—as the sequel of his
own prayers—that result to take place, and the cholera symptoms passed
away.
It is obvious, that while the ordinary nervous fears of the average man
or woman are quite enough to make them expect evil, they must be of a
remarkably sanguine temperament to make them expect good with anything
like the certainty with which they look forward, say, to the processes of
nature. The old woman who prayed that the mountain in front of her house
might be removed, and shook her fist at it in the morning, saying, " I
knowed ye'd be there," had not felt this expectation. The Founder of
Christianity limited the certainty of response to prayer to those who did feel
it. Professor Huxley's well-known challenge would have excluded it.
Hitherto the purchase needed to produce this expectation has been almost
entirely given by religious belief, true or untrue ; though possibly we may
class under the action of the same law the success of certain S.P.R.
experimenters in producing impressions upon an absent percipient. The
same engine of concentration of thought and expectation of result has prob
ably been used by a saint labouring for the conversion of a sinner or by an
Obi man doing his enemy to death. The moral worth of a religion would
come to be tested not by its thaumaturgic power but by the moral worth of
its objects, if this were proved to be a fact. A means would also be
indicated by which the average man could infallibly obtain physical and
moral mastery of his lower self, and give strength and help to his neighbours
—granted only that he desired good thoroughly and had perseverance enough
to train himself to the exercise of the power. Has not the discovery of the
process of self-suggestion brought us near enough to the subject to make it
worth while to investigate it scientifically ? Yours, &c.,
An Associate.
SPI RIT-PHOTOGRAPHY.
To the Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Dear Sir,—In the Journal for November, 1891, Mrs. Sidgwick, writing
on " Spirit-Photography " makes the following observation : " One special
precaution I should like to call attention to, viz., that experiments con
ducted by one person absolutely alone should not be regarded as evidentially
important. In many departments of Psychical Research we have to do with
abnormal states and with actions—like automatic writing— not regulated by
the normal consciousness, and it is quite conceivable that apparent success
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1892.
in spirit-photography might be brought about by actions of the experimenter
of which his normal consciousness had neither knowledge at the time nor
recollection afterwards."
Now, as regards this I should like, with your kind permission, to point
out, first, that if we admit the principle here involved we cannot consistently
set any limits to its application ; and secondly that the common experience of
mankind does not justify us in admitting it as a working factor at all
or considering it in any other light than as a quantity ne'gligeable ; thirdly,
that even if we admit the unconscious self as a disturbing factor which we
are bound to take into account this would not destroy the value of experi
ments made by single individuals. No one, I suppose, will deny that this
vitiating element would at the very most operate only in a small minority of
cases. If, therefore, the results of a number of solitary workers supported
each other and all pointed in the same direction, then, although each case
singly might be weak yet all the cases taken together would be strong. The
argument would be cumulative. Moreover, solitary effort would not exclude
combined effort and it would then be time to judge of the value of the former
when we had seen how it tallied with the latter. If we found the one
supported the other we need then have no further uneasiness on this head.
In writing this I am assuming the experimenter to be a non-medium, and
I think I am justified in assuming this, for as no reservation is made in the
text it should be held to cover the whole of the possibilities. I am quite
aware of the general method of obtaining spirit photographs, viz., through a
medium, but it does not at all follow that this must be the only method.
There are at least two conceivable cases in which the operator might be alone
and have no "psychic" powers of any description, (1) in the case of haunted
houses ; (2) in that of photographs taken at or about the moment of death.
I do not know if this latter has yet been suggested, but it would seem to open
an interesting field.
Even, however in the case of mediums absolutely alone I do not con
sider that the objections to the principle are disposed of, for the following
reasons :—
(1) The photograph itself might refute the unconscious deception theory
by its manifest want of resemblance to the medium ; but as to this a balance
of opinion would be necessary.
(2) Some reiutne' is yet wanted of the evidence for bond fide mediums
unconsciously deceiving. (Paid mediums, as we know, have no grace given
them in this respect except perhaps by Spiritualists ; yet it is evident that if
we admit this theory, " intent to deceive " can rarely be proved, however
likely.) Without sufficient evidence we should not assume the action of the
unconscious self in mediums by analogy with other abnormal states where
spiritual agency is not asserted, for this would be to assume a knowledge of
the very point which has yet to be made clear, viz., the cause of mediumship.
(3) My argument as to the possible cumulative effect of evidence from
individual experiments, and the testing of these by comparing them with
others made by two or more persons still remains ; for even with mediums—
I mean, of course, in private life—this unconscious deception, as many can
testify, is not the rule.
April, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 239
I think, therefore, that, taking into consideration the rarity of mediums
and the immense interest and importance of the phenomena if established, it
would be extremely unwise to exclude any avenue of evidence, and that we
should rather be ready to receive whatever we can get. We could then judge
of each case on its own merits, and of the whole by its cumulative effect.
There is also a prudential consideration which may have weight, that is to
say if we really desire to get evidence. Mediums can hardly help resenting
this assumption of their own agency however the pill may be gilded, and by
shutting out the second best class of experiments we run a danger of lessening
the number of the best. I am, dear sir, yours very truly,
Edmund Selods,
Barton Mills, near Mildenhall, Suffolk.
March 31st, 1892.
MR. KIRK'S LETTER IN THE LAST "JOURNAL.'
The Reverend Arthur Sloman writes to us objecting to the statement
in Mr. Kirk's letter in the Journal for March, that according to the Protes
tant Church a soul after death passes at once into everlasting happiness or
punishment. The general view of the Church of England on this subject
may, he says, be summed up in the words of the late Bishop of Winchester
in his staudard work on the Articles (Art. Ill, §2 ) :— "When human beings
.die, the soul leaves the body ; the latter is laid in the grave, the former
passes to the intermediate state of souls."
We do not give Mr. Sloman's letter in full, because a discussion of
what views are held by different sections of Christians on this subject is not
within the legitimate scope of this Journal : but we feel it to be due to him to
insert this paragraph as we inserted Mr. Kirk's statement.—Ed.
OASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
Misprints in the March "Journal."
There are two misprints in Mr. Spurgeon Green's narrative
(G. 200) in the Journal for March. The date of the narrative, on
p. 221, should be 1889 not 1886; and on p. 222, lines 3 and 4,
a" Witton Inn " should be Witton Run.
L. 933. Ad Pn Visual.
The following obituary notice appeared in the Cambridge Inde
pendent Press for August 8th, 1863 :—
August 5th, at Ely, accidentally, by the upsetting of his boat, Charles
Theodore Harlock, Esq., third son of the late William Harlock, Esq.,
and junior partner of the firm of Harlock and Son, brewers, Ely,
aged 29.
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1892.
Mr. John Titterton, of Ely, describes an experience of his own in
connection with Mr. Harlock's death, as follows :—
Ely, December 2nd, 1891.
It was on the 4th of August, 1863, a beautiful calm evening. I was
fishing from a boat on the Ouse, a mile or so below Ely. I had been much
troubled with floating weeds, and rested from the amusement to look around.
A few hundred yards away I saw an outrigged skiff coming down stream,
handled, evidently, by a tyro whose difficulties were by no means lessened by
the condition of the stream. As it neared me I saw it was a gentleman with
whom I had some acquaintance, Mr. Charles Theodore Harlock, a partner
with his brother in a large brewery. Seeing me, he came alongside and we
chatted for some time. " Yon are very uneasy in your boat, and the weeds
are dangerous for you," I said, " can you swim ? " " No," he replied, " but
I am all right ; I shall get on better soon." We parted, and I still watched
the awkward looking roll of his craft as he went on his way. The whole
thing had passed quite out of my mind. The next evening [Wednesday,
August 5th, 1863] I was pursuing my usual sport, accompanied by a man
named John Taylor, a labourer, who generally punted the boat for me. The
weeds were less troublesome, and the evening was delightful, and the water
smooth as glass. Having finished my sport, my man punted me slowly
homewards as I smoked my pipe, for smoker I am, but a drinker of strong
drinks I am not, and my health has for very many years been perfect. I
watched the fish as they darted from beneath the boat in the clear water.
I saw we were approaching something unusual in the water, and there, about
two feet below the surface, I saw the soles of two stockinged feet. The
colour was a blue-grey. They were the feet of Mr. Harlock, as I saw them
in the straps of the stretcher, without his boots. I sprang to my feet and
seized an extra punting pole I always carried. " For God's sake, stop,
Jack," I shouted, as I got back to the spot where I had seen the feet.
" There is a drowned man here." We searched until we were tired, and
found nothing, yet I saw what I describe so clearly that nothing I remember
is so clear to me as that. The time was half-past seven. As I walked
through the streets on my way home I saw knots of people standing about.
"Has anything occurred?" I asked of some men. "Yes," replied one of
them, "Mr. Charles Harlock is drowned." "When?" I inquired. "It
was half-past seven this evening," he replied. I cannot describe the shock
it gave me. The accident happened fully three miles from where I saw
those upturned feet. Taylor is living and will well remember the
circumstance.
Mr. Myers writes on January 7th, 1892 :—
To-day I had an interview with Mr. Titterton, an excellent witness.
He has never had any other hallucination of the senses. He is a good
visualiser, being an artist by profession. I could not see John Taylor, who
was at work on a country road, but Mr. Titterton will try to see him and
get his testimony.
Later he writes :—
Mr. Titterton, who had not seen John Taylor for a long time, asked
April, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 241
him on January 10th the question, " Do you remember Mr. Harlock's death
by drowning ? " and received the following reply :—
I remember Mr. Harlock being drowned. I saw him the evening before
that when I was with you in the boat. You asked him if he was not afraid
of being upset. The next night, between seven and eight, I was spreading*
you home and you said, " Stop, Jack, here is somebody drowned ! " I re
member that as well as if it was only yesterday. We searched about but
could not find anybody. Mr. Harlock was drowned that evening.
John Taylor.
January 10th, 1892. His x mark.
A paragraph in the Cambridge Independent Press confirms the fact
that the accident took place in the evening.
L. 934. Ad Pn Impression.
We are indebted for the following narrative to Lady Eardley, for
whom the narrator, Major-General Blaksley, wrote it out. The perci
pient has been dead for many years.
Junior United Service Club, London, S.W.
November 9th, 1891.
About Christmas, 1858, I was at Hythe, going through the course of
musketry. One morning, at about quarter to nine, we were at breakfast
when a great friend of mine (De Lacy Lacy, of the 12th Regiment) came in,
and, looking ill and haggard, took a seat by the fire instead of at the break
fast table. I said to him : " Come and eat some breakfast, as we start very
soon for the Ranges." He replied : " I can eat nothing, I feel ill, but I will
tell you about it on the way down there." Presently he told me, " My twin
brother died this morning on his ship on the West Coast of Africa, at eight
o'clock, and I know that the effect on me will be a severe illness." I tried
to persuade him that he might have been dreaming, and to raise his hopes,,
but he said : " No, it is certain ; through our lives there has always been such
strong sympathy between us that nothing has ever happened to the one
without the other knowing about it."
My friend had an attack of jaundice. The news came home in due course-
that his brother had died at the instant my friend had stated. There had
been no " manifestation," only a mental flash which carried conviction with
it. My friend was an excellent officer, a man of first-class ability, highly
accomplished, and a boon companion. He carried off two years afterwards
the " All Comers' Prize " at Wimbledon.
T. Blaksley, Major-General.
Punting.
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1892.
L. 935. A-* P8 or A" P8
The following narrative was sent to the American Society for
Psychical Eesearch by Mr. Thomas Darling, of 30, St. John-street,
Montreal :—
August 13th, 1885.
The late William Darling, of Montreal, Can., was born in Edinburgh, Scot
land, in June, 1819. He was the eldest of a large family, the second of whom
was Margaret, born within two years after William. These two were much
attached to one another. William left home and settled in Montreal about
1838. He revisited Edinburgh from time to time down to about 1847,
when he married in Edinburgh and returned to Montreal. Margaret
married Robert Taylor in Edinburgh about 1843, and continued to reside
there. On the occasions of William's visit to Edinburgh, the friendship
between Margaret and himself continued of the same warm character that
it had been previous to his leaving home. By Margaret he was always held
in high esteem ; she was naturally warm-hearted and impulsive.
Between 1847 and 1855 the brother and sister had not seen each other ;
they corresponded at intervals and the cordial feeling for each other was
uninterrupted. In 1855 Margaret had two children alive, and had been for
some years previously in rather indifferent health from an asthmatic affec
tion, but she was not an invalid. Her husband had always enjoyed fair,
average health.
On the morning of December 15th, 1855, William appeared in his office
about the usual hour. He was then at the head of a large wholesale
hardware business, which was conducted under his immediate supervision,
requiring close application, for which he was well fitted. He was apt to
appear absent-minded by reason of the preoccupation one in his position,
busy about manifold details, is likely to experience. On the morning in
question he was more than usually preoccupied in manner, and walked
backward and forward, evidently influenced by a condition of mental dis
turbance which prevented him giving any fixed attention to business
matters then transpiring. His brother Thomas, the present writer, was
employed in William's office and wrote at the same desk with him.
Thomas was then in his twenty-first year, William being in his thirty-
seventh. The absent-mindedness of the latter continued for probably half
an hour, when he came up to Thomas and in an agitated manner, which he
evidently was unable to control, said : "I am afraid something serious has
happened to Margaret. I appeared to see her during the night walking
about in a room wringing her hands and saying, ' Poor fellow ! poor fellow ! '
She was crying and evidently very much distressed. I don't know who was
the cause of her grief but the effect on my nerves and spirits I am quite
unable to shake off. I feel overpowered with the sense that something
serious has occurred to cause the condition of grief in which I appeared to
see her, and I must make note of the date so as to be able to know when
the mail arrives whether my fears and sufferings have been connected with
anything that has taken place." That was substantially the purport of his
communication, and his words are reproduced as faithfully as they can
April, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 243
be recollected. William's well-known matter-of-fact character made the
occurrence just recounted rather startling. He was all the opposite of an
imaginative man and was regarded as one of the most clear-headed of the
mercantile men in the city. His judgment had long been, and continued
to be, down to the date of his death in 1885, held in the highest estimation
by all who knew him.
In the interval, until the arrival of the mail some two weeks afterwards,
he continued to show unusual signs of prttoccupation, and when the mail at
last arrived it was with evidently profound agitation ihat he received the
intelligence of the death of Margaret's husband, Robert Taylor, which
occurred on the 14th December, 1855, from inflammation of the bowels, after
an illness of only three days. The account received was that Margaret had
been somewhat unwell with the asthmatic complaint from which she suffered
and was partially confined to bed. Her husband complained of feeling
unwell and, being in bed, had the doctor see him. He was prescribed for
and next day was worse. On the third day the doctor informed Mr. Taylor
that if he had any matters to arrange he had better attend to them, as he
could not recover. Taylor answered in agitated tones, " Do you think I am
going to die ? I feel no pain." Margaret, who was also in bed, sprang up
in alarm and continued in a condition of great excitement until the death of
her husband, which occurred not many hours afterwards. Until the news of
his death arrived there had, of course, been no intelligence of Mr. Taylor's
illness and the coincidence of William's mental disturbance with the time of
Margaret's excitement impressed all of us who knew the facts and had had
an opportunity of being aware on the 15th of what had occurred to excite
him on the previous night. The occurrence was duly communicated in
correspondence to Edinburgh and was the subject of comment in the family
at intervals when any similar subject happened to come up. Margaret died
about 1862, but no similar experience ever visited William, so far as is known.
The unusually matter-of-fact and unimaginative character of the man
made all the circumstances just narrated very impressive. The coincidence
was startling and the facts were so fully known to the present writer at the
date of their occurrence as to leave no room for question that they are
correctly narrated, and that no possibility existed for any intimation of
danger having served to produce events so foreign to ordinary experience.
In another letter, dated 23rd November, 1886, Mr. Darling says:—
I duly received your letter of the 2nd inst., and have since found my
late brother's letter-book of January, 1856. Enclosed find an extract from
his letter to my father of the 14ih January, 1856. This is the only allusion
to the circumstance that I find in the letter-book. The letters from my
father of the 14th and 21st December, 1855, to which this is a reply, I have
not found, but they would bear out the account I have given of Mr. Taylor's
short illness and death.
You will notice that from the fact of William's thoughts dwelling on
David as being the deceased that there was no prior intimation to turn his
thoughts towards Mr. Taylor. William's avoidance of any allusion to his
vision of Margaret in distress is quite explicable in view of the manner in
which such a communication would have been received by my father.
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1892.
Extract from a letter written by William Barling at Montreal on January
14th, 1856, to his father, William Darling, who resided in Edinburgh, Scotland.
Dear Father,—I have your letters dated the 14th and 21st December,
both of which brought distressing news at the beginning of a new year.
. . . I was quite prepared to hear of the death of a relative on the 14th
December, but I supposed it to be David. I am no believer in dreams, nor do
I ever think of them as being more than the result of a disturbed or unsound
sleep, but at the time of Mr. Taylor's death I was suddenly startled in my
sleep with the words " Poor fellow," and an impression left, that I could not
shake off, that someone had died that night. I mentioned at once to Mary
that I thought David had died that night, and on the following Sabbath I men
tioned to Tom that I was impressed with the idea that someone had died on
the 14th December, and I thought we would hear it was David, and
that I intended to make a note of the matter.
Mr. Thomas Darling continues :—
The foregoing conveys a very weak impression of what took place at the
time ; the letter is written a month after the event ; the excitement under
which the writer laboured on the 15th December and for some time afterwards
had had time to subside, and the press of business prevented the subject
being dwelt on after the knowledge of the event had been received ; besides,
William Darling, Senior, was of a disposition that had no sympathy with
what he might regard as a giving way to imagination, and anything of the
nature of a circumstantial account of what actually occurred might have
exposed the writer to a criticism which his disposition would prompt him to
avoid. The letter is characteristic of the man ; he was of few words and was
not given to elaborate a statement, especially if there was reason to suppose
that his correspondent might not sympathise with the mental disturbance
which the occurrence produced. In no subsequent letter is there any
allusion to this matter.
The reference to " David " in the letter of January 14th, 1856, arose from
the fact that David, the brother of William, had been suffering from
pulmonary affection for some years, and had gone from Canada to Italy,
where he was then residing, in consequence of delicate health. David died
in Italy about December, 1856.
Mr. Darling writes again on August 2nd, 1889 :—
In reply to yours of June 25th, I have conversed with the widow of my
brother William regarding the occurrences of December 14th, 1855. My
sister-in-law's account of my brother's disturbance is to the effect that she was
awoke during the night and found him sitting up in bed, exclaiming in tones
of anxiety, "What is it? What is it?" and on inquiring as to what was
disturbing him, he related to her the impressions substantially as they were
originally communicated by me to your Society. My sister-in-law confirms
the statement that I made, in regard to the subsequent confirmation of my
brother's fears, by the news of the death of Mr. Taylor as already described.
Mrs. Darling is not aware that there is any correspondence in her possession
that would throw any further light upon the events in question. My brother's
private correspondence appears to have been destroyed, prior to the time at
April, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 245
which I made the communication to your Society, or it is likely that letters
would have been found referring to the subject. I have neglected communi
cating with my sister in Edinburgh as to the occurrences there, but will do
so by an early mail, and will communicate to you the reply upon receipt.
My brother's widow informs me that a similar disturbance visited William
in the year 1870, when he was absent in Europe, for the space of about nine
months. At that time the Fenian raids took place from the States into
Canada, and the Volunteer corps of this city were ordered to the frontier for
the purpose of preventing the entrance of the Fenians at that point.
Thomas, one of the sons of William, was a member of the Cavalry corps so
sent out. Mrs. Darling states, that in his communications to her, my brother
referred to serious mental anxiety which had come upon him during the
night under similar circumstances to those described upon the occasion of
the death of Mr. Taylor, the impression created upon his mind being that
some impending danger threatened a member of his family here. The fact
was, the anxiety referred to occurred on the date at which his son Thomas
was called out as above mentioned. His mother was under very consider
able anxiety at the time, particularly so in the absence of her husband. It
has not been stated to me that William's anxiety was on her account, nor was
it connected with any one of the family in particular, but his mental disturb
ance caused him to communicate with Mrs. Darling on the subject, and it
appears that after his return here it was referred to more than once, and
she associated it with the occurrences at the time of Mr. Taylor's death as
being of a similar character. This circumstance was not communicated to
me at the time, or I would doubtless have been in a position to give a more
circumstantial account of it, and it was only upon my intimating to my sis
ter-in-law my belief that William had never been so affected at any other
time that she informed me of what took place in 1870.
I communicate these circumstances to you so that you may be fully in
formed of everything which might possibly affect your opinion on the
phenomena involved in these matters.
Mrs. Darling subsequently added to a copy of above letter the
words :—
These statements are all correct.—Mary Darling.
Mr. Darling's sister, Mrs. Lyell, wrote to her brother as follows :—
Edinburgh, August 18</i, 1889.
I have also to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the 2nd instant. I
am not sure that I can give you any valuable information on the subject. I
am quite sure there are none of William's letters on the subject on this side.
I recollect he wrote my father about his extraordinary dream, and the state
of excitement it put him in, and I think he said he rose out of bed after
telling his wife, and wrote the date upon the back of the shutter, so that
there might be no mistake about it, and certainly it was the very night the
death happened. I was in attendance all the three days of Mr. Taylor's
illness during the day. Margaret was confined to bed suffering from
bronchitis, I think . . . and never able to be over the bed. About
four or five in the afternoon of the day he died, young Zeigler came to see
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1892.
him for the second or third time that day, and went off for his father, who
came and said to Mrs. Taylor that she must get out of bed . . . which
she did at once, and I think sat on a chair at the side of the bed till he was
just drawing his last breath, some time between eleven and one in the
morning, I think it was after twelve. I was in another room at the time
when she was carried out of the bedroom. My husband was in the house, and
I think it likely he was one who helped to carry her out, but I have not a
person to refer to, to corroborate that, as I don't think there is anyone alive
who was there, and my memory now is not good, unless helped by an
incident that might biing it back to me. The expression " Poor fellow " I
don't recollect hearing her say, but very likely she did. She was seized
with paralysis during the night after his death.
L. 936. Veridical Dream.
The following case, also received through the American Branch,
is difficult to classify. It is one of those which so curiously suggest
that the mere arrival of an unopened letter or newspaper has some
tendency to produce in the mind a knowledge of its contents. In the
present instance, however, telepathy from Mrs. E. F.'s correspondent
in Connecticut is a possible explanation. Names are suppressed by
request.
Statement by Mrs. J. A. S.
February 2„d, 1891.
In December, 1888, I was living in Colorado, and I had rented my upper
rooms, as a flat, to a lady from Connecticut, who had an invalid son. One
morning she told me that the night before she had dreamed that a young
man in Connecticut was dead. This young man had been a friend of her
son, was nearly the same age, and a year or more previous had bad severe
hemorrhages from the lungs, had been sent to Denver, and had gone home
cured. It was the success of the climate in his case that had induced Mrs.
E. F., my tenant, to come to Colorado with her son. The evening before
Mrs. E. F. had this dream, a paper from Connecticut had been brought in,
but she had been too busy to look at it, and it lay through the night in its
wrapper, on a table in her room. She dreamed that this young man had had
a sudden hemorrhage and died instantly. She did not mention her dream to
her son fearing it might trouble him, but after he had eaten his breakfast
and was settled for the day, she sat down to read to him from her local home
paper, and on opening it the first item she saw was one to the effect that this
young man in Connecticut had died from a sudden hemorrhage just as she had
dreamed. Mrs. E. F. related this to me that same day, bringing me the
paper to keep for her where her son would not see it. He died soon after
this.
Mrs. [E. F.] is now the city missionary at supported by the
W.C.T.U., and is a licensed minister of the Congregational Association
of .
April, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 247
Mrs. E. F. herself writes on March 18th, 1891 :—
The son of an old friend came West for his health, and, apparently much
helped, returned home some time before my own son's health began
to fail. Building our hopes on doctor's advice, and what we thought
Colorado climate had done for that young man, we came out here.
About six weeks after, I dreamed one night that young G. had suddenly had
a severe hemorrhage, ran right down and died in three or four days. So
vivid was the dream that the grief of parents and only sister was deeply
impressed on my mind for a long time, even to peculiar expressions they
used in speaking of his death. I wondered about it in the morning as I had
not corresponded with the family or heard about them from others since
leaving home, but I was greatly startled, on getting my daily home paper
in that morning's mail, to find a notice of the young man's death under
circumstances very similar to those of my dream. The mother's rebellion
at her son's death was afterwards voiced to me in a letter, in language very
like that I dreamed of her using.
I should be glad to see a copy of your Journal, and possibly, if you wish
it, I may at some future day give you one or two other dreams I have had
and which I should very much like to have satisfactorily explained.
CATALOGUE OF UN PRINTED CASES.
{Continued from the November Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases
will be gratefully received.
B L 150. Collective. Auditory. From Colonel Taylor. —His servant
heard herself called—it was found that no one had called her. Then Colonel
Taylor seemed to remember that he had heard the call too.
B L 151. Ae Pn —Impression.—Miss S.B.Sliarpe was strongly impressed
and haunted by some lines from a hymn which she heard in church. She
afterwards found that her brother, engaged in the expedition against Riel
in Canada, was in danger at the time, and the appropriateness of the lines
and impression accompanying them suggested a connection between the
feeling and her brother's danger. Date of impression, 1885. Becorded 1891.
B L 152. Dreams.—Mrs. Clemens had (1) a dream of her niece being
poisoned a few days before she died of inflammation of the lungs, and (2) a
symbolic dream of a lady calling on her on the night of the lady's death.
Date, about 50 years ago. Becorded in 1891.
B L 153. Ad P» Visual. 2nd hand. From Mrs. Clemens.—Her
uncle, while at church, saw his cousin, whom he knew to be ill, pass the east
window of the church. Cousin died at the time. Date, about 70 vears ago.
Becorded in 1891.
B L 154. Ae Pn Visual. 2nd hand. Sir John Leslie informs us that
his friend, Bev. E. Goddard (who died in 1878), described to him having
seen a friend of his, the sculptor Nollekens, stand by his bed and gaze
anxiously at him. Next day he went up to London in consequence of this
and found Nollekens dying, and very anxious for his assistance in settling
some business affairs. Nollekens died in 1823. Date of narrative, 1891.
B L 155. An Pn Impression. —Mrs. Allies had impression that her
husband would return home one evening, and therefore put off a friend
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [April, 1892.
whom she had asked to dine that evening. Her husband arrived as expected.
Confirmed by Mrs. Green, who was with her at the time. Date, about 30
years ago. Recorded in 1891. During her husband's frequent absences,
Mrs. Allies often had impressions as to when he would return, which she says
were always verified. The last of these was on the night of his sudden
death.
B L 156. Dream. Probably 2nd hand.—" Aggie," au old Scotchwoman,
at Sewickley, U.S.A., has a troubled dream about Jamie Travelli and two
unrecognised companions, at the time that the first is mortally wounded and
two of his companions killed in the American War. Recorded by Mr. John
Irwin, who sends the case, in 1890.
B L 157. Ae P8 Dreams.— Miss Symons dreams (1) that some prin
cess comes to her place of business accompanied by tall English lady. First
post brings unexpected letter from a tall friend telling Miss Symons that she
(friend) has gone abroad with a princess to teach English to children. Date,
October 4th, 1890. (2) A premonitory dream mentioned before fulfilment
on February 7th, 1890, about a certain lady coming to her place of business
and giving an order. Both dreams were recorded at the time.
B L 158. Auditory.—Mrs. Hook and three others hear footsteps coming
up plank path leading to house when doctor is expected. No one can be
found and doctor arrives half an hour later. Account also of other noises
heard on night of father's funeral. Date of events, May and July, 1874.
Recorded June, 1891. Received through Dr. T. P. Hall, Clark University,
Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
B L 159. Ad Pn Visual. 3rd hand, as good as 2nd ; by two good lines
of tradition. Mr. Curtis sees his brother at the time the latter is killed
by the explosion of a cannon in 1834. Recorded, 1891, by Mr. R. H. Inglis
Palgrave and Mr. Henry E. Buxton.
B L 160. Dreams. Mrs. Blair records three veridical dreams. 1.
Dream of her brother nearly drowning in the West Mill Dam. 2. Dream
of her brother in a cave in danger of being suffocated, in 1846. 3. Dream
of her mother dying, in 1861. Also a veridical feeling of depression at the
time of mother's death experienced by Mrs. Blair's brother, Mr. Thomas
Buxton. Date of narratives, 1891. We were put into communication with
Mrs. Blair by the Rev. C. Scott, The Catholic Rectory, Cambridge.
B L 161. Dream. 2nd hand, as good as 1st. Mrs. Bing dreams that a
steamer has been wrecked. Two mornings after, her husband was telegraphed
for to arrange for recovery of a steamer that had been wrecked on the night
of her dream near Kristiania. Related by Mr. Bonnevie, and corroborated
by two other persons, all of whom heard of the dream the morning after it
occurred. Date of dream, December, 1888. Related May, 1891. Sent by
Mr. A. von Bergen.
B L 162. Ad P" Impression. Mr. W. J. Burnham wakes with a strong
impression that his father is dead. He relates it to a friend and notes the
time, and hears later that his father died at the same time. The friend is
lost sight of, and no corroboration obtainable. Date, June 10th, 1873.
Recorded December, 1886.
B L 163. Ad Pn Visual. 2nd hand, as good as 1st.—Mr. Evans,
chief officer on board the Geraldine, told Captain Newman, who gives the
account, that when awake in his cabin expecting to be called to go on deck
he saw his wife standing at his bedside. He entered it in the log, with the
date, and found on the arrival of the vessel that his wife had died on the
same day as the vision occurred. Date, 1858. Narrated 1891. Received
through Mrs. Passingham.
No. XC—Vol. V. [May, 1892.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
International Congress of Experimental Psychology : Provisional Programme . . . . 249
Cases Received by the Literary Committee 250
MM. Ball and Boeteau's Case of Double Personality 260
Correspondence : A Suggested Method of Self-Hypnotisation 261
Proposed Psychical Science Congress at Chicago in 1893 262
Obituary 263
Supplementary Library Catalogue 264
INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF EXPERIMENTAL
PSYCHOLOGY.
A Provisional Programme has just been issued by the Honorary
Secretaries, Mr. F. W. H. Myers and Mr. James Sully, from which
we extract the following :—
The Second Session of the above Congress will be held in London,
on Monday, August 1st, 1892, and the three following days, under the
presidency of Professor H. Sidgwick. The Congress will assemble in
the rooms of University College, Gower-street, kindly lent for the
purpose.
Arrangements have already been made by which the main branches
of contemporary Psychological research will be represented. In
addition to the chief lines of investigation comprising the general
experimental study of psychical phenomena in the normal human mind,
it is intended to bring into prominence such kindred departments of
research as the neurological consideration of the cerebral conditions of
mental processes ; the study of the lower forms of mind in the infant,
in the lower races of mankind, and in animals ; the laws of heredity,
and at least some aspects of the pathology of mind. Reports will be
given in of the results of the census of hallucinations which it was
decided to carry out at the first Session of the Congress (Paris, 1889).
It is proposed to form a special section for the discussion of
hypnotism and of phenomena cognate to those of hypnotism.
As a specimen of the work that will be done, it may be said that
Professor Bain will deal with " The Respective Spheres and the Mutual
Aids of Introspection and Experiment in Psychology" ; Professor
Baldwin, with " The Physiological Basis of Impulse, Desire, and
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mat, 1892.
Volition " ; Professor Beaunis, with " Psychological Questioning " ( Des
questionnaires psychologiques) ; Dr. Berillon, with " The Applications
of Hypnotic Suggestion to Education " ; Professor Bernheim, with
" The Psychical Character of Hysterical Amblyopia " ; Monsieur Binet,
with some aspects of " The Psychology of Insects " ; Professor Delbceuf,
with " The Appreciation of Time by Somnambulists " ; Dr. Donaldson,
with "Laura Bridgman"; Professor Stanley Hall, with "Recent
Researches in the Psychology of the Skin " ; Professor Horsley, with
" The Degree of Localisation of Movements and Correlative Sensa
tions"; Professor Pierre Janet, with " Loss of Volitional Power
(l'aboulie)"; Professor N. Lange, with " A Law of Perception";
Professor Lehmann, with " Experimental Inquiry into the relation of
Respiration to Attention " ; Professor Lombroso, with " The Sensibility
of Women, Normal, Insane, and Criminal " ; Professor Miiller, with
" The Experimental Investigation of Memory " ; Dr. Miinsterberg, with
" Complex Feelings of Pleasure and Pain " ; Professor Preyer, with
" The Origin of Numbers " ; Professor Richet, with " The Future of
Psychology " ; Dr. Romanes, with " Facts of Instinct in relation to
theories of Heredity " ; Professor Schiifer, with the " Anatomical and
Physiological relations of the Frontal Lobes " ; and Dr. Baron von
Schrenck-Notzing, with " A Statistical Study of Susceptibility to
Hypnotism."
The fee for attendance at the Congress is ten shillings.
Members or Associates of the S.P.R. wishing to attend should
communicate with Mr. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 884. Experimental Apparition (Additional Evidence about
case printed in the Journal for October, 1891, p. 134).
Skiddy, Morris Co., Kansas, October 31st, 1891.
I have been shown by my friend Dr. Wiltse the account in the last num
ber of S.P.R. Journal [October, 1891], of the Doctor's attempt to produce
apparition of himself, along with evidence of Mrs. Charles Skene, of Cleve
land, Ohio. Will you allow me to correct her statement, which I do in the
interest of science ?
Mrs. Skene states that the Doctor said he wished "to try an experiment
with the little boy." This is a mistake. I was in the house that evening
and noticed the Doctor sitting near the door very quiet, and remember that
someone asked him what he was doing, and that he told us not to disturb
him as he was thinking, but he said nothing as to the subject of his medita
tions. The lady has evidently got matters confused with other occasions, as
the Doctor was almost daily trying experiments in his particular line. He
Mat, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 251
told me the next morning that he believed he had caused the boy's fright,
and that if so it would come out after a few days and then he would tell
me what experiment he had tried, but to get at the undoubted truth he
must not divulge it until the boy should tell what had scared him.
Some days after this I was at the Doctor's house when the Doctor offered
the boy a present to tell him what had frightened him, which the boy bash
fully refused to do, whereupon his sister (8 years old) said she knew, and
proceeded to give the statement precisely as related by Dr. Wiltse in the
Journal. Of course the error in Mrs. Skene's evidence is entirely uninten
tional. She has simply got confused among the multiplicity of experiments
she witnessed at my friend's house, and in which as a general thing I think
she was not largely interested. But the mistake is rather unfortunate since
it throws much doubt upon the Doctor's statement.
Begging pardon for so long a voluntary trespass upon your valuable time
from an entire stranger, and offering as excuse my hearty interest in the
noble work your Society is engaged upon, I subscribe myself
T. Raseco.
[The above letter to Mr. Hodgson is in the handwriting of Dr. Wiltse
and signed by T. Raseco. ]
L. 937. A« P3
We are permitted to print the dream which follows, translated from
the original letters in French. It will interest our readers as referring
to the recent bereavement which Professor Richet has undergone. He
has prefixed a few words, giving the facts as to the last illness and
death of his distinguished father.
On Saturday, December 2Gth, 1891, M. A. Richet, aged 70, at
Carqueiranne, was seized with a violent bronchitis, which during the night of
December 26th-27th led to violent agitation and some delirium. Next
morning telegrams were sent to M. Charles Richet and his other children in
Paris, saying that their father's illness, although not precisely dangerous, was,
at his age, a serious one. M. Charles Richet at once started for Toulon, at
7.15 p.m., December 27th. During the Sunday the patient's state grew
worse ; and he expired at 1 p.m., December 30th.
The dream which follows is narrated by Professor Richet's cousin,
Madame Vavin, who has already contributed a case to Phantasms of the
Living (Vol. II., p. 481).
I was very anxious and troubled as to the health of an Aunt who is very
dear to me ; and on the evening of December 26th-27th, 1891, I had received
a letter giving me very alarming news of this Aunt. I anticipated her
immediate death, and went to sleep in this state of mind. I then dreamt as
follows. I was present at a funeral, which seemed to belong to my family.
I saw my brother in uniform and all my relations in mourning. I at first
thought that this must be my Aunt's funeral ;—yet my grief did not seem to
me to be as great as I should have felt in such a case ; and I saw in the
group before me my cousin, the grandchild and nearest relative of this Aunt,
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1892.
in very slight mourning. Suddenly a voice seemed to whisper these words
in my ear, ' ' This is not your Aunt's funeral, —but the funeral of M. Richet,
who is about to die." At this moment I awoke.
Next day my brother told me that M. Richet was ill, —a fact of which I
was quite unaware. I then told my dream to him and to several other
persons. Marguerite Vavin.
The following corroboration is from Madame Vavin's brother, above
referred to :—
This is what I remember as to your dream. I had learnt from my Aunt
de Rancy that my Uncle Richet was ill, and that Louise and Charles had
received a telegram. On Sunday or Saturday evening I told you this, and
you replied that you had heard nothing of it. Then you repeated to me the
strange dream which you had dreamt on the previous night. It appears to
me, then, that you had dreamt this dream before you knew anything of the
illness of our Uncle. Paul.
L. 938. A° Pn
The following narrative was sent to Mr. Hodgson by Mr. William
Tudor :—
Auburndale, Mass., July 11th, 1890.
Your favour of the 30th ult. , addressed to Mrs. Tudor, I will answer, as
the incident more directly concerned me.
Late in the evening of Monday, March 17th, near midnight, my nephew,
Frederic Tudor, Jun. , fell in front of an electric car going to Cambridge, was
dragged some distance and so badly injured that for a time his life was in
doubt though he recovered with the loss of a foot. My wife heard of the
accident on Tuesday afternoon and was much distressed all the night of
Tuesday and quite restless and wakeful.
At this time I was in Gainesville, Florida, having important business
there in connection with land purchases. On the night of Tuesday I went to
bed rather early in a calm state of mind. I slept soundly, as I usually do.
About midnight, as I should judge, I heard my wife call my name quite dis
tinctly and waked instantly broad awake. I sat up in bed, but soon
remembering where I was fell asleep again and waked no more until
morning. The next day the incident of the night made me quite uneasy,
also during the following day, and as I was obliged to leave on the afternoon
of Friday for a rough journey in the country I telegraphed to my wife to
know what was the matter. I usually receive a letter from home every day
and on these days no letter arrived, which added to my uneasiness. No
answer was received to my first telegram for the very good reason that it was
never delivered. I was obliged to start, however, in the afternoon of this day,
Friday the twenty-first, and in the morning of the 22nd, from a small town
called New Branford, sent another telegram, of which the following is the
substance:—"Shall be gone three days, what has happened? Answer
Branford." I had a strong impression that something serious had occurred,
that my wife was possibly ill, or some of the children were ill, or that some
May, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 253
accident or death had occurred to a near relation, not however involving my
immediate family. The following extracts from my letters will illustrate
this feeling.
Letter of March 19th :
" I thought you called me last night. I waked up and was much worried,
I hope you are not ill."
Letter of March 22nd, from New Branford :
" No answer comes to my telegram although I left word to have it for
warded here." " Surely someone would telegraph if you were ill. Surely
you would let me know if anything had happened. I do not feel that anything
serious has happened and yet I cannot understand such a combination of
circumstances." "I have no confidence in these telegraph people and
daresay you never received my message."
Letter of March 24th, from Gainesville, after telegram giving account of
accident was finally received :
"I had a feeling that something was wrong but that you were all right."
Such I give as the substance of the facts in this case, which I trust may be
interesting to the Society. William Tudor.
Mrs. W. Tudor writes :—
Auburndale, July 29th, 1890.
My nephew's accident occurred on Monday night. Being out of town I
heard of it on Tuesday afternoon. I immediately went to Boston and
returned the same evening about nine o'clock, feeling greatly distressed. I
wrote a letter to my husband after my return describing the accident and
retired to bed rather late and passed a restless night. The telegram
received from my husband rather surprised me as he is not usually anxious
when away from home. I believe this is all I know connected with this
incident. Elizabeth Tudor.
L. 939. Thought-transference 1
The following case, recorded, it will be observed, on the day of its
occurrence, is of undoubted psychological interest. If it is not a case
of thought-transference from Miss C. to Mrs. Luther we must assume
that a very remarkable recrudescence of latent memory occurred to
the latter independently, at the same time that a similar though less
remarkable revival of memory occurred to the former.
Hartford, Conn., March 2nd, 1892.
I send you herewith the account of a series of incidents which seem to
me worthy of record by students of Psychology. There is little or nothing
to be added to the bare narrative, perhaps, yet I may be permitted to point
out that the peculiarity of this occurrence lies in its illustration of uncon
scious or unintentional thought-transference. Miss C. is often in my study
and consults my books freely, so that her dream was not remarkable. The
dream of Mrs. L. (my wife) was also ordinary in character. The coincidence
in time of the dreams may have been merely a coincidence. But that after
these occurrences Mrs. L. should suddenly, without the least premeditation
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mai, 1892.
and without hesitation, take the right book and open it at the right page with
the certainty of a somnambulist, seems to me strange.
If I am mistaken in supposing that the matter is one of some interest I
trust you will pardon my intrusion upon your attention.
F. S. Luther
(Prof. Math., Trinity College).
These events took place yesterday, last night, and this morning.
F. S. L.
Mrs. L. and Miss C. live at the same hotel and meet daily. Miss C. is
engaged in writing an essay upon Emerson, and expresses to Mrs. L. her
wish to obtain some particulars as to Emerson's private life. Mrs. L. regrets
that she has no book treating of the subject. During the night following
this conversation Mrs. L. dreams of handing Miss C. a book containing an
article such as is desired, and Miss C. dreams of telling Mrs. L. that she had
procured just the information which she had been looking for. Each lady
relates to the other her dream when they meet at breakfast the next morning.
Mrs. L. returns to her room, and, while certainly not consciously thinking of
Emerson, suddenly finds in her mind the thought, " There is the book which
Miss C. needs." She goes directly to a bookcase, takes down Vol. 17 of the
Century Magazine, and opens immed lately at the article, "The Homes and
Haunts of Emerson. " Mrs. L. had undoubtedly read this article in 1879,
but she had never studied Emerson or his works, nor had she made any
special effort to assist Miss C. in her search, though feeling a friend's interest
in the proposed essay. '
After receiving the book and hearing how it was selected, Miss C. relates
her dream more fully, it appearing that she had seemed to be standing in
front of Mrs. L. 's shelves with a large, illustrated book in her hands, and
that in the book was something about Emerson.
Still later it is found that Miss C. had actually noticed the article in
question while actually in the position reproduced in her dream. This, how
ever, had happened about a month previous to the events just narrated, and
before she had thought of looking up authorities as to Emerson, so that she
had entirely forgotten the occurrence and the article. Neither did she, at
that time, call Mrs. L.'s attention to the article, or mention Emerson.
According to the best information attainable, Miss C. was not thinking of
her essay at the time when Mrs. L. felt the sudden impulse to take down a
certain book. And perhaps it should be added that the volume is one of a
complete set of the Century variously disposed upon Mrs. L.'s shelves.
[This account is signed by Professor Luther, Mrs. L. , and Miss C]
Professor Luther adds that Miss C. has had one or two experiences
of some psychological interest, of which she will write accounts later.
M. 25.
The following account of an interesting experience with a trance-
medium is by Mr. De L. Sackett, practical phrenologist and lecturer,
of Sycamore, Illinois. He published it in the Phrenological Journal,
May, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 255
whence it was copied into the- Religio-Pliilosophical Journal for
February 14th, 1891, and Mr. Hodgson has since corresponded with him
about it.
In the September number of the Journal you call attention to Professor
William James's inquiries regarding hallucinations. I herewith enclose a
statement of my experience : ' ' About eight years ago I was delivering some
lectures on phrenology in a school-house at Little Rock, I11. My audience
consisted of over one hundred adults besides a goodly number of children.
The school-room had but one entrance, opening from the centre of the east
side of the room into a hallway about twelve feet long, at the east end of
which was the outside door. My pictures were hanging on the east wall of
the room, above and on each side of the door. There was a space of from
twelve to fifteen feet between the door and the first row of seats, extending
the full width of the room with the exception of the space occupied by the
teacher's desk on the left, and by a stove on the right of the entrance.
' ' One evening, after I had been speaking for half an hour or more, and
while fully enthused with my subject and speaking rapidly, I felt a hand laid
on my shoulder and the clasp of fingers and thumb very distinctly. In much
surprise I turned to see who had entered through two closed doors and
traversed the hallway so quietly as not to be heard. To my greater surprise
I saw no one behind me ; the door was closed, and I was the only visible
occupant of the space above described. I recovered quickly from the shock
it gave me and resumed my address to the audience, but not before they had
noticed that something unusual was affecting me. After the lecture I gave
two delineations of character.
" The first subject was a man about sixty years of age, an entire stranger
to me, who, as I afterward learned, was a resident physician. While he was
walking from his seat in the audience to the chair placed for him, I
remarked, ' If there is any person in this community who is fond of flowers
and loves to cultivate them this is the one.' I had no more than said it
before I would have given the night's receipts at the door to have recalled
the remark. I felt thoroughly vexed with myself for impulsively saying
what my better judgment condemned as a foolish remark. However, I used
both tape and callipers and gave quite an extended delineation of his
character, and must have made some ' good hits,' as the audience frequently
applauded, and I hoped that they would forget my remark about the flowers.
"But judge of my surprise when, after the audience was dismissed, a
lady approached me and asked how I could tell by the doctor's phrenology
that he was passionately fond of flowers ? She informed me that flowers
were 'his hobby,' and that he was the only person in the village who culti
vated a flower garden. I now felt better over my blunder, for it was the
luckiest ' hit ' I had made that evening. I had no acquaintance in the
village and stopped at another town seven miles away, and consequently
had no knowledge of the doctor or his flower garden.
" Nothing strange or unusual in all this ? No. But the strange part is
yet to come. I continued to lecture all that winter and the following fall
and winter, and the incident of the hand on my shoulder, the flower
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, i^92.
incident, and even the lecture itself had faded from my mind, and would
probably never have been recalled for serious consideration had I not paid a
second visit to Mrs. Leonard Howard, a noted clairvoyant of St. Charles,
I11. My first visit to her had occurred about three years before, at which
time I was intensely sceptical as to the truth of clairvoyance. In my first
interview she told me of facts and incidents relating to my father's family,
which I denied. She then told me what I thought were the facts, and told
me also that my father would corroborate her statements when I saw him,
which he did. She told me that I would succeed at phrenology, and advised
me to quit my present business (photography) and try it. I gave her no
information of myself, and all her statements were volunteered. I was a
perfect stranger to her, and yet while in a trance she seemed possessed of a
fund of knowledge of myself and people far greater than mine or theirs.
She advised me to try lecturing on phrenology, as I could do much good in
that field, saying she would help me, a statement which at the time seemed
preposterous.
"Perhaps, for the better understanding of what follows, it may be
necessary to state that Mrs. Howard claimed to be controlled while in a
trance by the spirit of an old Indian doctor, and used the dialect Indians
use in attempting to speak the English language. The ' doctor ' told me he
should remember me, and would know me wherever and whenever he saw
me, if it was not in many years. Mrs. Howard was at that time over
seventy years of age, and her memory quite poor.
" At my second interview Mrs. Howard did not appear to know me, or
have any recollection that she had ever seen me. But after she had entered
the trance state, she greeted me with, 'Hello, Injun, me taut you come agin
some time. ' She, or perhaps it would be more proper to say, the ' doctor '
(for Mrs. Howard had no recollection of what occurred while in her trance),
recalled much that he had said to me on my former visit, and asked if my
father did not corroborate all his statements at that time. He told me that
I liked to make pictures better than I did when I was there before, as the
new way was easier. (I had adopted the dry plate process since my former
visit.) He told me I had lectured and succeeded as he told me I would.
We were sitting facing each other, when Mrs. Howard placed her hand on
my knee, and clasping it with a light pressure while a merry look came over
her face, said : ' Say, Injun, why you so 'fraid when I put hand on you
shoulder in dat ole school-house where funny old doctor like flowers so 1 '
To say that I was astonished does not express my feelings, for the thought
that I might possibly get a solution to the hallucination of the hand on my
shoulder, and comprehend why I should make such an unfounded assertion
as to the doctor being passionately fond of flowers, made me anxious to ask
many questions ; but I was given no opportunity, for the medium con
tinued : ' Didn't me tell you me help you if you go 'round make heap talk
and feel heads ? Injun, me made you tell ole doctor him like flowers, 'fore
he got to chair ; how much you gib dat night if hadn't said it, hey ? Injun,
me put hand on you shoulder dat night ; yip, me dare ; see all dem folks
and dat funny ole doctor—all dem picturs on wall, and skulls, and dat white
head (bust) on table. '
May, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 257
" 'Well, if you were there why did you not speak to me, so I should
have known you 1 ' I inquired.
" ' 'Umph 1 me couldn't do dat—didn't hab my mejum, Mrs. Howard,
dare. Me dare ; see eberyting dare too.'
"The medium told me much more, and tried to explain something of
the philosophy of clairvoyance ; but could not explain to my satisfaction how
the hallucination of the hand on my shoulder was produced, or why I was
impelled to tell the audience the doctor was passionately fond of flowers.
"The impression was so strong in my mind, it 'said itself.' But
whether it was an impression received directly from the subject by
psychometry, or whether (as Swedenborg would express it) it was injected
into my mind by an influx from a ' spirit,' I am unable to say. The in
cidents actually occurred, and so long as I cannot account for them by any
law familiar to myself, it is, perhaps, but fair to give the clairvoyant the
benefit of the doubt, and accept the Indian ' doctor's ' statement that he pro
duced them as the true solution, even though we do not comprehend the
philosophy of the law by which they were produced.
"In conclusion, I wish to say that Mrs. Howard resided at St. Charles
from the time that part of Illinois was settled, and until her recent death
always commanded the respect of all who knew her, no matter what their
religious belief might be. She never advertised herself as a medium, but
was visited by people of all shades of belief."
Mr. Sackett writes to Mr. Hodgson on February 26th, 1891 :—
* * * * *
At the time the "experience" occurred, I had no thoughts of Mrs.
Howard, nor did I ever think of her in connection with the phenomena
previous to my second interview with her. I have given a great many
lectures since, but have never experienced anything like the touch of a hand.
I have many times felt impelled to tell those who have come under my hands
for examination of some special trait of character, of which phrenology gave
me no clue, and have always found what I term my " intuitive impressions "
a safe guide, but whether the "impressions " originate with me or not, I am
not prepared to say.
I had never thought of ascribing them to a decarnate spirit previous to
my second visit to Mrs. Howard, nor am I willing to do so now without
more proof. I confess the question is an open one with me, and I am
desirous of more light.
When I receive the Doctor's address I will forward it to you with a
relation of another strange experience in which the sense of sight instead of
feeling was hallucinated (if there is any " hallucination " about it).
De L. Sackett.
The next letter is from Mrs. George Mason, of Sandwich, De Kalb
Co., Illinois, to Mr. Hodgson.
Hinckley, March 10th, 1891.
It has been some years since the circumstance happened you allude to in
your letter.
Mr. De L. Sackett gave a lecture at the Little Bock School-house,
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1892.
upon phrenology. The audience, I think, sent up .in old gentleman (or he
volunteered, I could not say which) to have his head examined. He (Sackett)
was standing near the door and the doctor was sitting. Before he had
measured the doctor's head he turned towards the door as if someone had
spoken to him, or touched him, and he immediately said, "This man is
passionately fond of flowers. " After the lecture I asked Mr. Sackett how
he knew that the doctor was fond of flowers, as that was his " hobby," and
had a yard full of very choice and beautiful flowers in their season. As I
knew the doctor was a perfect stranger to Mr. Sackett it seemed very strange
to me.
The old gentleman is living in Piano, Kendall Co., I11. His name is Dr.
John Brady, an old Quaker.
Mr. Hodgson has written twice to Dr. Brady but has received no
reply.
The other experience referred to by Mr. Sackett was that of seeing
a hallucinatory child's hand resting on that of his sleeping brother,
by whose bedside Mr. Sackett was watching a few days before his
death in 1887. The account of this is confirmed by his sister and
sister-in-law. We do not quote the case in full, as it does not appear
to have been either coincidental or collective.
L. 940. Ad Ps or Borderland.
From Mrs. Beard.
The following is a curious instance of an impression coinciding with
the death of a person entirely unknown to the percipient. It may be,
of course, a mere coincidence, but it belongs to a group of cases of
which several instances are given in Phantasms of the Living, Vol. II.,
p. 365, and which " recall," as Mr. Gurney remarks, " the Greek notion
of (j)rjM—the rumour which spreads from some unknown source, and far
outstrips all known means of transport."
May 21d, 1891.
About 5 a.m. on the 27th January I awoke, saying aloud, "Earl Howe
of Gopsal, Earl Howe of Gopsal." The sound of my voice made me
start up and wonder why the name of Gopsal should come into a dream, as
my one recollection of the place was connected with a visit to it so long ago
as the reign of William IV., when his Queen, Adelaide, stayed there, and
her state rooms were thrown open to the public. On Wednesday, the 28th,
or Thursday, the 29th January—I cannot refer to the paper now—I opened
the Times, and almost the first paragraph which caught my eye announced
the death at 5 a.m., on Tuesday, the 27th, at Cannes, I think, of a son of
the Earl Howe of my childhood, whose body was, the paragraph said, to be
brought to Gopsal for burial. I told the coincidence to my daughter, but did
not mention it again for some time. I cannot recall any thought of Gopsal
coming into my mind of late years. When travelling to London, as I did, for
May, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 259
instance, on the 5th of last January, I always look out for the spire of my
native Leicestershire town, Hinckley, but am sure no recollection connected
with Gopsal was with me. Mary Ellen Beaed.
Owing to a mistake this letter was not received by us at the time it
was written, and it was not till November, 1891, that we had any
further correspondence about it. In answer to our inquiries, Mrs.
Beard then wrote :—
I have no means of knowing that the dream and the death coincided
beyond the fact that as soon as I had convinced myself of the exactness of
the date and hour, I went to my daughter, who was also at Mr. D.'s, and told
her of it and made her read the paragraph. And as I had only a day or so
before arrived at Mr. D.'s, there was no possibility of mistake as to what had
occurred to me in a fresh bedroom only the previous morning. The speaking
made me wide awake in a moment and I sat up questioning myself as to what
could have caused Gopsal to come thus into my brain. And I could not
forget so singular an occurrence, or the time of it. I did not " believe " it,
I knew it. There was no recollection of any dream preceding the calling
out the words, which made me think at the time more of the sudden call
than I should have done had it been the end or part of a dream.
I cannot, after the lapse of 10 months, say with certainty whether I
spoke of my sudden awakening and speaking aloud to my daughter, who was
at Oxford, though not sleeping with me when it happened. My daughter has
a strong belief that I told her at once, but would not like now to assert this.
But on reading the Times paragraph early the next day, my first idea was not
that of anything singular so much as of a mistake in my reading of the date
and hour. And I read and re-read several times before convincing myself
that the facts in the paper so exactly agreed with my experience. Perhaps
I ought to say that during many long periods of nursing the sick, I have
tried to know the hours of the night by my feeling of the time passed, finding
the habit useful in many ways, and that I now carry on the practice, first
guessing the time and then verifying it by my watch. So that there is no
doubt as to the time, any more than the date, of my awaking at Oxford.
Gopsal was within a long drive of Hinckley in Leicestershire, where I was
born, and where I lived till 19 yeara old. Beyond a visit of a few hours to
Gopsal when a little child of 9, I have never seen it, nor, so far as my
memory serves me, heard of it. I recollect the name and the place coming
for a moment into my mind when passing by railway through Leicestershire,
about a year before last January, but it did not dwell there, and was only
recalled when the occurrence of last January caused me to wonder why I
awoke speaking of Gopsal. I do not see the Times or any London paper
regularly, so can only say that no notice of any illness of Earl Howe's son
ever came under my eye. I did not even know that Earl Howe had a son.
I had no recollection of him or of anyone belonging to him.
In the Times of Thursday, January 29th, 1891, we find under
obituary notices :—
We regret to announce the death at half-past 5 on Tuesday last at his
house in South Eaton Place, of General the Hon. Sir Leicester Curzon Smyth,
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, i»y2.
K.C.B., K.C.M.G., Governor and Commander in Chief of Gibraltar, at the
age of CI years. He had only just left Gibraltar on the 14th inst. for a
three months' leave of absence for the benefit of his health. Sir Leicester
Smyth was the youngest son of the first Earl Howe and Lady Harriet
Georgiana, daughter of the sixth Earl Cardigan, and he was born in 1829.
. . . The remains will be placed in the family vault at Gopsall in
Warwickshire on Saturday.
The Times has been searched from January 20th without finding
any other reference to the General.
MM. BALL AND BOETEAU'S CASE OF DOUBLE
PERSONALITY.
The following case of " Automatisme Somnambulique avec dedoublement
de la personnalite' " is reported by J. M. Boeteau, Interne des Asiles de la
Seine, in the Antudes Medico-psycholoyupies for January, 1892. It will interest
our readers from its analogy to the Ansell Bourne case, insomuch as the lost
memory of an escapade is recovered under hypnotisation. It differs from
Ansell Bourne's case in the presence of marked hysteria. There seems to be
no suspicion of epilepsy. I abbreviate M. Boeteau's very full and clear
account.
Marie M., now aged 22, has been subject to hysterical attacks since she
was twelve years old. She became an out-patient at the Hopital Andral for
these attacks ; and on April 24th, 1891, the house-physician there advised her
to enter the surgical ward at the Hotel-Dieu, as she would probably need
an operation for an internal trouble. Greatly shocked by this news, she left
the hospital at 10 a.m., and lost consciousness. When she recovered con
sciousness, she found herself in quite another hospital, —that of Ste. Anne,—
at 6 a.m. on April 27th. She had been found wandering in the streets of Paris,
with haggard aspect, worn-out boots, and lacerated feet, in the. evening of the
day on which she left the Hopital Andral, under the shock of painful appre
hension. On returning to herself, she could recollect absolutely nothing of
what had passed in the interval. While she was thus perplexed at her
unexplained fatigue and footsoreness, and at the gap in her memory, M.
Boeteau hypnotised her. Like Ansell Bourne, she passed with ease into the
hypnotic state, although she had never before been hypnotised ;—and like
him she at once remembered the events which filled at least the earlier part
of the gap in her primary consciousness.
It appears that when she left the Hopital Andral she set out at first for
the Hotel-Dieu, as recommended ; but that the horror of the impending
operation upset her balance of mind, and suddenly transformed itself into a
conviction that her baby, which had died at the Assistance Publique, was
being kept from her by the nurse to whom she had entrusted it at Chaville.
She had walked to Chaville, and then on to Versailles, whither the nurse
had removed. She could learn nothing of her baby, and walked back to
Paris. During this long walk, which wore out her boots and wounded her
feet, she was insensible to fatigue or hunger. But on regaining Paris she
May, 1892.] Journal of Society for Pyschical Research. 261
began to be haunted by spectral surgeons, endeavouring to perform operations
on her. She was found in an increasing state of maniacal excitation, and
was taken to a police infirmary on the 25th and to the Hospital of Ste.
Anne on the 26th April.
The patient's account of her adventures was found to be correct. The
novel point here is the recovery by hypnotism of the memory of a state
resembling a sudden access of mania. There seems to have been some frag
mentary recollection of the primary state during the secondary state, inas
much as the poor woman recollected the fact that she had a baby, and the
name and address of the nurse. But there was so little of such memory that
Dr. Boeteau feels justified in saying that "for a time she had had a real mental
lifo differing from the normal life, with a recurrence to her normal life after
three days ; thus presenting a clear example of alternating and divided
personality, with complete separation between the two psychical existences."
One further point should be noted. If the patient is hypnotised and told
to write the day of the month, she writes April 25th, 1891. This is one of the
days during her fugue—the day, as it appears, on which she sank from
coherent into incoherent delirium. It thus appears that some kind of
secondary personality, identified with the earlier part of the fugue, still
exists subliminally, although the patient has apparently quite recovered her
mental balance. F. W. H. M.
CORRESPONDENCE.
A SUGGESTED METHOD OF SEI.F-HYPNOTISATION.
To the. Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research.
Dear Sir,—Mr. Myers' fascinating paper on the Subliminal Conscious
ness (Proceedings, February, 1892) must have aroused in many of its readers
a desire to re-mould themselves "nearer to the heart's desire," and to
exploit the hidden vein of genius which each of us is now entitled to believe
to be lurking in the depths of his being, beneath his surface self. But, un
fortunately, the only methods yet devised for getting at the subliminal self
involve a recourse to external hypnotisation, and, rightly or wrongly, a great
many of us have an unconquerable aversion to putting themselves, to an un
known extent, into the power of any hypnotic operator. Hence it may not
be out of place to indicate a method whereby some of us, at all events, may
attain the practical benefits of such a psychical reconstruction. It would
apply primarily to those who are able to communicate with their subliminal
strata by means of automatic writing. Let such a person inquire of his sub
liminal correspondents whether they can put him into the trance state. If
they affirm this and the trance ensues, we shall have a most interesting con
firmation of the view that at bottom all hypnotisation is self-hypnotisation.
And once the hypnotic trance has been evoked, the rest is easy. The supra
liminal self then can propose any desired suggestions to the automatically
writing self in its normal state, which, when assented to by the latter, may
be reimposed upon the supraliminal self as hypnotic suggestions in the trance
state. Of course the duration of the trance should always be limited by
previous arrangement with the subliminal self, and, if successful, I can see no
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Mat, 1892.
reason why such experiments should not be entirely beneficial in practice, as
well as highly instructive in theory. But perhaps Mr. Myers may have some
thing to say on the subject. C. Schiller.
PSYCHICAL SCIENCE CONGRESS AT CHICAGO IN 1893.
We have received the following preliminary announcement of the
Committee on a Psychical Science Congress to be held in connection
with the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 :—
The Committee of this Congress believes that the time is propitious
for a public discussion, by leading thinkers of all countries, of certain
phenomena which may be classified under the general head of Psychical
Science.
It is proposed to treat these phenomena both historically, analyti
cally, and experimentally. The following synopsis of work is indicated
for the Congress, subject to such modification as occasion may seem to
require, and especially to such changes as may result from the expression
of the views of those addressed in this preliminary announcement :—
1. a. General History of Psychical phenomena.
b. The value of human testimony concerning these phenomena.
c. Results of individual effort in the collection of Psychical
data and in the solution of the problems arising therefrom.
d The origin and growth of Societies for Psychical Research,
and the results which they have thus far achieved.
2. Detailed consideration of the various classes of Psychical
phenomena, of the theories offered for their elucidation, and of the
further problems that demand investigation. The questions to be dis
cussed may be grouped provisionally under the following heads :—
a Thought-Transference or Telepathy—the action of one mind
upon another independently of the recognised channels of
sense. The nature and extent of this action. Spontaneous
cases and experimental investigation.
b. Hypnotism or Mesmerism. Nature and characteristics of the
hypnotic trance in its various phases, including Auto-
Hypnotism, Clairvoyance, Hypnotism at a distance, and
Multiplex Personality. Hypnotism in its application to
Therapeutics.
c. Hallucinations, fallacious and veridical. Premonitions. Ap
paritions of the living and of the dead.
d. Independent Clairvoyance and Clairaudience. Psychometry.
Automatic Speech, Writing, &c. The Mediumistic Trance
and its relations to ordinary hypnotic states,
Mat, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 263
e. Psychophysical phenomena, such as Raps, Table-Tippings,
Independent Writing, and other spiritistic manifestations.
f. The relations of the above groups of phenomena to one another ;
the connection between Psychics and Physics ; the bearing of
Psychical Science upon Human Personality, and especially
upon the question of a Future Life.
The Executive Committee in charge of the arrangements for the
Psychical Science Congress must of necessity be composed of residents
of Chicago and others who can conveniently attend Committee Meetings.
But this Committee avows its need of and desire for an Advisory
Council consisting of competent and experienced persons, to be selected
from all quarters of the world, in order that the Congress may find a
truly international representation. The formation of such a Council
will follow this publication as speedily as possible.
The special purpose of this preliminary announcement is to solicit
the suggestions, and obtain the energetic co-operation, of all persons
who are interested in Psychical Research throughout the World.
John C. Bundy, Chairman, Elliott Coues, M.D., Vice-Chairman,
Lyman J. Gage, A. Reeves Jackson, M.D., Ernest E. Chepin, J. H,
McVicker, Hiram W. Thomas, D.D., D. Harry Hammer, D. H,
Lamberson.
Chicago, March 10th, 1892.
The World's Congress Auxiliary has been organised with the
approval and support of the Exposition Authorities and of the Congress
of the United States, to have general charge of a series of Congresses
extending from May to October, 1893. The Directory of the Exposi
tion will provide ample audience rooms. Inquiries and all other
communications concerning the Psychical Science Congress should be
addressed to John C. Bundy,
Chairman of the Committee on a Psychical Science Congress.
World's Congress Auxiliary, Chicago, I11., U.S.A.
OBITUARY.
We regret to announce the death, on April 29th, of Mr. J. Herbert
Stack, a former member of the Council of the S.P.R. Mr. Stack gave
cordial co-operation to the Society's work from the time of its founda
tion. His strong sense and marked fairness of mind were of especial
value to the "Committee on Alleged Marvels Connected with
Theosophy " on which he served in 1885. He will be much regretted
by many friends.
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1892.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last list ("Journal" for December, 1891).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Bramwell (J. Milne, M.B.), Hypnotism and Humbug (being
portion of a lecture on Hypnotism delivered before the York
Medical Society, on March 9th, 1892) (2 copies) 1892
Ochorowicz (Dr. J.), Mental Suggestion (with a Preface by Pro
fessor Chas. Richet). From the French, by J. FitzGerald,
M.A New York, 1891
Prince (Morton, M.D.), The Nature of Mind and Human Auto
matism Philadelphia, 1885
Seppilli (Dr. Giuseppi), Report on the Therapeutics of Mental
Diseases(AmericanJournal ofInsanity, Ap., 1891). (Translated
from the Arch. Ital, Sept., 1890) Utica, U.S.A., 1891
Tamborini (Professor A.), On the Nature of the Somatic Pheno
mena in Hypnotism. From the Italian, by J. Workman, M.D.
(Tlie Alienist and Neurologist, July, 1891). . .St. Louis, U.S.A., 1891
Tuckey (C. Lloyd, M.D.), On Hypnotism (Brain, Pt. xiv.) London, 1892*
Journal du Magnetisme par une Societe de Magnetiseurs et de
Medecins sous la direction de M. le Baron Du Potet. 20 vols.
Paris, 1845-1861
Likbeault (Dr. A. A.), Le Sommeil Provoque et les Etats
Analogues Paris, 1889*
Max-Simon (Dr. P.), Les Maladies del'Esprit Pari*, 1892
Philips (Dr. J. P.), Cours Theorique et Pratique de Braidisme
Paris, 1860t
Richet (Professor C), Essai de Psychologie Generale Paris, 1887t
Fajardo (Dr. Francisco), Hypnotismo Rio Janeiro, 1889J
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Ghost Stories (More), The New Year's Number of Review of
Reviews. Edited by W. T. Stead London, 1892
Heaton (James), The Extraordinary Affliction and Gracious
Relief of a Little Bey London, 1822§
Hellenbach (Baron), Birth and Death. From the German,
by"V." London, 1886t
Ireland (W. W., M.D.), The Blot upon the Brain ...Edinburgh, 1885 1|
Levy (W. Hanks, F.R.G.S.), Blindness and the Blind : or, a
Treatise on the Science of Typhlology Loiulon, 1872
Marryat (Florence), There is no Death London, 1892
Sinnett (A. P.), The Rationale of Mesmerism London, 1892
ConorhSs Spirite et Spiritualiste (Compte Rendu du) Interna
tional de, 1889 Paris, 1890
D'Assier (Adolphe), Essai sur L'Humanite' Posthume Paris, 1883t
* Presented by the Author. t Presented by Mr. F. W. H. Myers.
£ Presented by Professor A. Alexander. § Presented by Mr. Pv. H. Howard.
II Presented by Dr. A T. Myers.
No. XCI.—Vol. V. [Jd.sk, 1S92.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
Nsw Members and Associates 265
Meeting of the Council 266
l Icneral Meeting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 266
Caws Received by the Literary Committee 268
Experiments in Thought-transference 270
Correspondence: Subliminal Consciousness of the Lapse of Time 279
Congress of Experimental Psychology 280
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
ASSOCIATES.
Barmby, Rev. James, B.D., Fittington Vicarage, Durham.
Bernard, John, Captain', R.M.L.I., H.M.S. " Nelson," Portsmouth.
Infield, II. I., 130, North-street, Brighton.
Librarian, The Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Mangin, Marcet, 130, Boulevard Haussmann, Paris.
Moynihan, B. G. A., M.B. (Lond.), The General Infirmary, Leeds.
Panton, D. Morrieson, Melrose, Porus P.O., Jamaica, W.I.
Pethybridge, Walter, 29, Methley-street, Kennington Cross, S.E.
Richardson, Robert E., Trinity College, Cambridge.
St. George, Mrs., 2, Jervis-place, Clonmel, Ireland.
Yearsley, P. Macleod, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Western General Dis
pensary, Marylebone-road., N.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEMBER.
Loisf.tte, Professor A., 303, West 72nd-strcet, New York, U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
Along, Joseph T., 72, Oxford-street, Rochester, New York, U.S.A.
Delabarre, Professor E. B., 19, Angell-st., Providence, R.I., U.S.A.
Ford, Austin E., Freeman's Journal, 11, Park-row, New York, U.S.A.
Hicks, Benjamin D., Old Westbury, New York, U.S.A.
Holladay, Prof. Waller, 400, West 57th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Mears, Mrs. W. A, Spokane, Washington, U.S.A.
Minturn, Miss, 109, East 21st-street, New York, U.S.A.
Norbury, Miss Mary, c/o L. C. Root, Stamford, Conn., U.S.A.
2li6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Junk, i8*i2.
Oldham, F. F., Blymper Building, Off Post Office, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Pkury, T. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Pebby, Mrs. T. S, 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Raine, II. J., Carleton-place, Ontario, Canada.
Zva, C, Sable Iron Works, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on May 27th, the President in
the Chair. There were also present : Professor W. F. Barrett, Dr. A.
T. Myers, and Messrs. W. Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, F. Podmore, S. C.
Scott, and R. Pearsall Smith.
Eleven new Associates were elected. The election of one new
Member, and thirteen new Associates of the American Branch was
recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
At his request the name of the Rev. George Nelson was transferred
from the list of Members to that of Associates.
Some presents to the Library were reported which were directed to
lai duly acknowledged.
Several other matters of business having been disposed of, it was
resolved that the next Meeting of the Council should be on Friday,
July 1st, at 4.30 p.m., at 19, Buckingham-street.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 53rd General Meeting was held at the Westminster Town Hall
on Friday, May 27th, at 8.30 p.m., The President in the chair.
A paper by Mrs. Sidowick about some further experiments in
thought-transference was read by Mr. Myers. The paper contained an
account of the successful transference of double numbers when the
agent (Mr. G. A. Smith) and the percipient were in separate rooms
with the door closed ; and also of the successful transference of mental
pictures thought of by the agent, no actual pictures being there.
These pictures were sometimes transferred to the percipient as pictures
on a blank card and sometimes were seen with closed eyes. They often
presented interesting features of development. The paper, with more
detail than was given at the meeting, will it is hoped appear in a future
numlicr of the Proceedings.
Portions of a paper by Dr. Hodoson on the late " Mr. Davey's
Imitations by Conjuring of Phenomena sometimes attributed to Spirit
Agency " were then read by Mr. Myers. This paper was written in
reply to a challenge by Mr. A, R. Wallace (see Journal for March,
Jcne, 1s02.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 267
1891, p. 43), who said of Mr. Davey's experiments described in
Proceedings, Vol. IV. :— "They are claimed to be all trick and unless
all can be so explained many of us will be confirmed in our belief that
Mr. Davey was really a medium as well as a conjurer, and that in
imputing all his performances to ' trick ' he was deceiving the Society
and the public." The methods used by Mr. Davey in producing writing
on slates believed by the sitters to be blank were described, together
with their application in particular cases ; and an account was given of
the way in which Mr. Davey, aided by Mr. Munro, produced the
materialisation seance (described in Proceedings, Vol. IV.', pp. 482-485).
This paper will, it is hoped, be published in Proceedings, Part XXII.,
to be issued in July.
The paper was followed by an interesting discussion, in the course
of which several questions were asked and answered.
Mb. F. Podmore gave an account of an occasion when his brother
sat with Mr. Davey, Mr. F. Podmore looking on, and writing was pro
duced in a locked slate which, as Mr. A. Podmore believed, he had him
self cleaned and afterwards continuously watched. Notwithstanding
this the slate was changed.
Mr. Pearsale Smith, admitting that he was one of the people who
had been entirely unable to account for what he saw with Mr. Davey,
commented on the illogical position taken up by those who will admit
conjuring as an explanation when they know the trick, but when they
cannot themselves explain how the phenomenon was produced assume
that it cannot be explained by conjuring. He concluded by describing
and explaining how he himself had completely mystified a party of
people by causing a handkerchief to disappear from under a hat and
to be found in a place selected by lot.
Mr. Munro further described the parts he and Mr. Davey had
taken in the materialisation seance, and dwelt on Mr. Davey's great
skill in distracting the attention of the sitters from what he did not
wish them to observe, and in guiding their impressions.
Mr. Hayes drew attention to the difficulty of devising conditions
for slate-writing experiments which would render conscious or uncon
scious fraud impossible ; and suggested that, in addition to screwing
the slates together and sealing the screw heads, the edges of both
slates should be plastered up with some composition (such as artists'
white or other pigment) which, when once set could not be re-softened.
This method could be made to preclude access to the interior of the
slates alike to the " medium " and the experimenter, and be a check
against possible hypnotisation or somnambulism.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers remarked that he should be very sorry if this
discussion left the impression either that any disparagement was
268 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1892.
intended to Mr. Wallace, or that the working members of the Society
considered that their duty with regard to the " physical " or " tele-
kinetic " phenomena was limited to the exposure of fraud. It was
needless to express the obligation under which all our generation lay
to Mr. Wallace, and if at times he seemed ready to adopt some
what violent suppositions rather than attribute fraud to so-called
" mediums;1' it must be remembered that it was partly the generosity
and simplicity of his own nature which made the work of a detective
impossible to him. Speaking for himself, Mr. Myers continued, he
believed, with a belief at least strong enough to impel to action, that
such phenomena as Mr. Davey simulated by conjuring did sometimes
occur through agencies as yet unknown. But he considered that this
was a reason for gratitude to Mr. Davey, who had placed the conditions
of inquiry on a securer basis, by demonstrating, more convincingly per
haps than anyone before him, how limited was the power of attention
and observation which the ordinary man could bring to bear upon even
the apparently simplest phenomena. The proved existence of such
limitations might impose caution in dealing with persons who had
obvious temptations to deceive, but it in no way lessened the importance
of the inquiry itself. He wished that there were more experiments
made in private families with patience and care.
Professor Barrett heartily concurred in what Mr. Myers had
said.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G. 224. Collective. Auditory.
The following account was sent by Miss Newbold, an Associate of
the Society. It was enclosed in a letter elated May 7th, 1892 :—
Florence N., a little child of under four years old, to whom I was very
much attached, died on May 23rd, 1889. She lived in the house where I
have my studio, and during the daytime was invariably with me. There
were no other children in the house and she was a general pet. I was ill for
some time after her death, and one morning in July, 1889, I went to see
Mrs. N. We were sitting talking in her room on the ground floor when I
suddenly heard the child's voice distinctly call "Miss Boo" (her name for
me). I was about to answer, when I remembered that it could be no living
voice and so continued my sentence, thinking that [ would say nothing about
the occurrence to her mother. At that moment Mrs. N. turned to me and
said, "Miss Newbold, did you hear that 1 " " Yes," I replied, " what was it ? "
And she said, ' ' My little child, and she called ' Miss Boo. ' " We both noticed
that the sound came from below, as if she were standing in the kitchen door
way underneath the room in which we were sitting. There was no possi>
June, 1802.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 269
bility of its being another child as there was not one in the house. The
upper floors were empty, too, at the time. I can vouch for the accuracy of
this account. Annie Newbolh.
Mrs. N.'s Account.
Miss Newbold came to see me one morning in July, 1889, about two
months after my only child's death. We were in my room talking when I
distinctly heard my little girl's voice call "Miss Boo." I asked Miss New-
bold if she had hoard anything and she said, "Yes. What was it?" I
replied, "My little child, and she said 'Miss Boo.' " Lizzie N.
In answer to questions, Miss Newbold writes :—
1. Mrs. N. never heard her little girl's voice on any other occasion.
2. We were not talking about the little girl at the time, nor upon any
subject connected with her. I, however, had a box of roses on my knee,
which I was mechanically sorting and putting all the white ones on one side
to send to the little child's grave.
3. Mrs. N. has never heard any other voices, either before or since.
Neither have I ; but I have three or four times in my life been conscious of
a presence without being able to explain definitely what it was I felt. I have
never seen anything.
L. 941. A<> P" Collective. Auditory.
From Mr. A. J. Turrell, and countersigned by his father and
mother bearing witness to the correctness of the facts stated.
Clifton Villa. Cavendish-road, Brondesbury, N.W.
October 11th, 1891.
About five years ago I was with a firm of insurance brokers in the City,
and during that time had an accident happen to my hand. One day being
at the office as usual I accidentally knocked the injured member, and with
out thinking where I was I called out to my mother to bind my hand as was
her custom when I was at home. I was naturally chaffed by my fellow
clerks for some time, but on my return home the first question both my
mother and father asked was, " What did you come home this afternoon for
at 3 o'clock 1 We distinctly heard you call out." That being, as far as I
can recollect, the exact time that I called out.
I notice a question as to whether it is a common thing for my parents to
hear voices (decidedly not), and if this experience is unique (certainly).
A. J. Turrell.
/ Matilda Turrell.
Arthur Turrell.
As it did not seem quite certain from the above account that Mr.
and Mrs. Turrell had both heard the voice, we asked Mr. G. A. Smith
to call and if possible get an explicit statement on this point. The
following is his account :—
May 31d, 1892.
I called upon Mr. A. J. Turrell to-day at Brondesbury, but was not able
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [.Tusk, 1892.
to see Mr. Turroll, senr., uncl Mrs. Turrell. Mr. A. J. Turrell assured me,
however, that his voice was heard by both of his parents. On his return
from business he went straight to the drawing-room where his parents were
sitting, and they at once asked what had brought him home earlier in the
afternoon. When he told them that he had not been home they seemed
much puzzled, and t:ild him that they had both distinctly heard him call his
mother's name, and thought he must have been in the house and gone again.
There was no other person in the house whose voice could have been mis
taken for Mr. A. J. Turrell's. They imagined he must be in the front pas
sage or on the staircase, but they did not go out of the room to see ; they
waited for him to come in, and as he did not come they concluded there was
nothing urgent and he would come at his leisure. Mr. A. .1. Turrell, still
feeling a little sore about the chaff he had endured in the City, could not
avoid thinking that this experience of his parents was in some way connected
with the incident, and he then related that he had good reason to remember
that he had actually called his mother about the time they heard his voice,
but that it was at the office, and not at home. They talked about the matter
a good deal at the time, and have often done so since ; and Mr. A. J.
Turrell is quite certain tha1 whatever it was his parents heard there can be
no doubt they both heard it. His fellow clerks are now scattered. The
firm failed, and Mr. Turrell being no longer connected with City life (he is
now, like his father, an artist), has completely lost sight of them. But he
thinks if he could trace any of them they would not fail to remember his
calling out that afternoon, as it was for some time made a special joke
against him. He has promised to try and find one of them at least.
G. A. Smith.
L. 952. Telepathic Clairvoyance.
The four narratives that follow are given by Mrs. MeCall Black.
Mrs. Black is a Spiritualist, and is personally known to Colonel Buntly
(Editor of the Heliffio-l'hilonophical Journal).
It will be seen that most of the incidents described may be regarded
as instances of telepathic clairvoyance, and taken together they seem
to indicate the possession by Mrs. Black of a remarkable faculty. We
hope that she will experiment, or at least in the future record her
experiences at the time they occur.
(1) In order to make the story understandable, I must make some
explanations about a family. The German girl who lived with me came to this
country to visit an aunt who was the second wife of a Mr. N., a Presby
terian of good standing and a baker by profession. He had a daughter by
his first wife who was 'i young lady at the time of which I write. She felt a
little disgraced (without cause) by herDcutsch cousin who " worked out," and
nover came to my house, but there were three or four of the aunt's children
who visited quite often. I was called to my mother's house to care for a
sick sister and was there two weeks (I could tell funny experiences in
relieving sick people) excepting 30inc days I'd run home for a few minutes to
JuxK, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 271
see how things got on at home. Before going to mother, I placed a little
nickel chain purse (quite pretty and uncommon) in a little drawer on the
dresser and left ten cents in it. When I returned home I went for my little
purse. As I opened the drawer it was gone, and a vision—day dream or what
—there stood by my side Mary N. and at the same time flashed the
sentence " She has your purse." I was startled first and pushed the drawer
shut ; then indignant that such a thought of a lady I only knew by sight and
never heard anything bad of should come to me, but the vision haunted me.
Still I said nothing. I did not like to speak of the matter to the girl for fear
she might feel I thought she took it, and I knew she was as innocent and
honest as the day was long. Later on in the day, I was sweeping the sitting-
room and she washing dishes when I carelessly said, " Oh, Lena, if you see
my nickel purse anywhere around, I wish you'd give it to me," and she came,
plate in hand startled and scared like, to the door between the rooms. "Why,
have you lost something, Mrs. Black ? " and I felt sorry and said, "Oh no.
Now if I never see that purse again, I don't want you ever to think I think
you took it, for I don't, " and then, as if something made my tongue go and
no thought in my head, I said, or it said, the words right out:— "But
Mary N. has it." Well, I was more scared than the girl, and I sat down
weak and trembling, and as I sat I saw a bedroom and a closet and a dress
hanging in the closet and my purse in the pocket. I said, "Lena, I don't
know what made me say that. I don't know what's the matter with me. Of
course, I know Mary never comes here and she is a nico girl, and " She
broke in : " But she was here one night, Mrs. Black ; all the children were
sick and aunt made her come." And I said, " Is that so ? Well, you know I
have never been upstairs in your aunt's house (only once at the door), but
as I sat down, I saw a bedroom and a closet in it and a dress hanging there
and my purse in the pocket. Has Mary's room a closet in it 1 " and she said,
" Yc3, it has. Please, Mrs. Black, can I go and see ? " and I said, " Yes. Don't
stop for the dishes, but go now." She put on her things and went. I
finished the dishes and was sweeping the kitchen when she came in all
excited and out of breath. In one hand she held the purse, in the other a
pair of bracelets I hadn't missed. She said, " Your purse had a dollar and
ten cents in it, but as you didn't say only ten cents in it I took the dollar
and left it in the pocket, and these bracelets I knew were yours, so I brought
them ; and there was a nice piece of new lace in her pocket I thought was
yours, but wasn't sure, so I left it. Mary was up town and they were right
where you said." I said, " Well, that's the funniest thing I ever heard of.
I'll give you the bracelets for getting them" (and did). "I had a piece in
the handkerchief box where the bracelets were, I'll go and see if it is gone,"
and we both went upstairs and sure enough it was gone. She wanted to go
right and get it, but I wouldn't let her. She wore the bracelets time and
again to the aunt's, but the cousin never said a word, nor Lena to her.
Lena told me she was frightened when I first spoke of the purse being gone
because the half sisters had told hor that Mary had taken gloves and such
things out of stoves, but she had hardly believed it, and I had never heard of
it. I always think of this with wonderment.
Mrs. C. McCall Black.
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jine, ls»2.
In reply to Dr. Hodgson's inquiries, Mrs. Kaiser, the " Lena " of
the above narrative, wrote :—
Jersey City, August 2nd, 1891.
Drab Sir, —Having heard from Mrs. Black yesterday, I will no longer
wait, but tell you what I remember of the strange experience of Mrs. Black,
to which you and Sirs. B. have reference to.
Ten years ago I was working for Mrs. B. when she was called to stay
away with a sick friend one night. Mrs. B. herself stopped at the house of
friends of mine, and asked the mother of the family, of which this one in
question was a member, to let one of her daughters spend the night with me,
as I was then quite a young girl and did not like to stay alone. Mrs. B., not
knowing which of the five girls was with me, when missing these articles on
her return, came to me and said, " Mary N. has my things. Was she here
during my absence?" when I told her, "Yes, she came that evening to
spend the night," and asked to go and get Mary's tmother to get these things
away from her at once. I went and told her mother, as Mary happened to
bo busy at something else. Her mother and sister went to her room and
brought to me the articles which they at once recognised as not Mary's pro
perty. They even brought more than Mrs. B. had yet missed, a little purse,
a pair of coral bracelets, two pieces of lace, a baby hair brush and comb, and
other things which I cannot mention any more. When I returned these
articles to Mrs. B. she gave me the bracelets to keep. It did not take
Mary's mother and sister long to get the things, as I told them of the where
abouts of the things, just as Mrs. B. had told me.
Mrs. B. certainly has a gift which not everyone has, and I well believed
of some other similar circumstances she told mo then, for I lived with her
nearly two years, and always found her to bo a lady in every sense of the
word. Mum. August Kaisek.
July 16th, 1891.
(2) I don't remember that I told anyone of the circumstance, but I
had burglars, and by vision or dream got my things back, and as I have
no way of proving up my story I'll only tell enough to make the letter
understandable. I saw two fellows in my vision, one I knew by sight. In
directions given me (in my dream) I was to go to a brother (of the one I knew
by sight) and tell him I knew the older one was in and what he had taken,
and gave him so long to return the things. They were returned to me in
person by time. The other (the one this letter is from) I was to handle dif
ferently because of his revengefitl disposition (I don't know yet anything of
his disposition). If I did as directed I'd get the things. I consented (all in
my dream). Then I saw a letter before me, and then it was put in an
envelope and I saw the name in large black letters—it was a name I had
never heard. I wrote the next day as I read in the letter of my dream and
directed and mailed, and he returned the things with the letter among them,
which I now send you. The things he speaks of not having, I had already had
returned by the other party who was afraid I'd report him, and he ran away
and has never returned. The chain he speaks of was a gentleman's watch
chain, also a lady's opera chain, old style, about two yards long and a valu
able chain. It is now made into small chains for myself and sister. He says
Jo.s-b, 1s92.] Journal of Societ;/ for Psychical Research. 273
he wasn't in the house, —maybo he wasn't, but I don't believe him—for all
the rest of the vision was true, and I believe that ; or it might bo I saw him
because he had some of the property. The keg he speaks of was a three
gallon keg that had some home-made grape wine, which, till I got his letter,
was not missed. And I don't believe the other fellow would give him such
valuable things for his help to get the keg. He calls the other fellow a kid
and himself a boy. They were both somewhere from 18 to 20—this one fill
ing a man's place in . . . shop where he still was for some time after.
If I ever hear of the brother, I would ask his testimony, for I told him when
he returned the things I'd tell him how I knew. When the things were
returned by the mother (who is now dead) I told her all and she told me
afterwards she had told her boys, but the old one ran away and I heard
(don't know though) he was about to be hung in Texas for murder. The
father and the brother sold out and left here after the mother died. I sec by
the date of this letter that it was in 1882, and the theft was on Saturday
night before the date given in this letter. C. McCall Black.
The burglar to whom Mrs. Black wrote, replied as follows (Dr.
Hodgson has seen the letter) :—.
Canton, August 25th, 1882.
My Dear Mrs. , I can return said articles all but the watch which
I never had nor even seen—know nothing whatever about it. I retain
nothing but two articles which I return at your request. And, Mrs. B ,
I return my thanks, and I assure you you will never hear of me being in
another foolish doing as that. I was not in your house. The kid had the
things when he came to me, but went back with him to gate and he got a
keg. He gave me the chains. But, Mrs. B , you have made a man of
me, and you can see what bad company does to a foolish boy. So, thanking
you thousands of times for the good you have done mo, I will bid you adieu.
Robber.
(3) Photograph Recognised from a Vision.
Canton, I11., April 8th, 1891.
Soma four years ago this spring I was visiting a friend at Farmington,
Miss Macdonald. One morning, just as I was waking, I saw very distinctly a
young lady, a strange face to me, but so plain I related it at the breakfast
table—the arrangement of hair, dress, and earrings. Wo wondered who it
could be and why I saw it. That day, with this same friend, she called on an
old lady who was boarding or living with a family in the country. While
there I picked up an album. I was startled to see the same young lady in
the album just as seen in the vision, only the earring in the picture had a
pendant and those in the vision only had the upper part. I showed Miss
Macdonald, and we quietly talked of it. Upon asking who, where, and
what, we found it to be a daughter of the family who had died the fall before.
I asked did she always wear those earrings that way, and the mother said she
never wore the pendant only when that picture was taken, which, if I
remember right, was taken only a short time before she sickened and died.
As usual, wo didn't say much to them, for they were opposed to any such
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, ism.
[thing], and I think, too, my friend said I had Keen her in a vision and
recognised the picture. But she will tell her story.
C. McCall Black.
Miss Macdonalrl corroborates as follows :—
Farmington, I11., April 15th, 1891.
My friend, Mrs. Black, had driven up from Canton intending to spend
a short time with us, and it was agreed on the first evening of her arrival
that on the following day we Bhould drive out to pay a visit to an old lady
friend boarding in a family named Stevens, and living about four miles out
in the country. When Mrs. Black came down to breakfast on the following
morning, she spoke of seeing the face of a young lady near her pillow upon
awakening, and described her quite minutely. We none of us recognised her,
however, and the subject was dropped for the time. When she and I had
arrived at our destination, and were comfortably seated with our old friend,
Mrs. Black took up an album, and in turning over the leaves came to a face
which she instantly recognised as the one she had seen at her pillow that
morning.
She asked our old friend as to who it was, and she replied that it was a
daughter-in-law of the family and who had died some time before. The
appearance of the face in the vision and that in the photograph was the
same, except that in the vision the earrings consisted of the upper part only,
while in the photograph they had long pendants. This was accounted for
by the fact which Mrs. Black elicited by a few questions, that she had never
worn the pendants except when that picture was taken. Mrs. Black and I
discussed the matter privately, but did not mention it to the family, as they
were not believers in such phenomena. This constitutes my knowledge of
the affair. F. Nellie Macdonalu.
Miss Macdoiiiild writes later :—
May 17th, 1891.
I cannot say with certainty when the occurrence related in my former
note took place, but think it was in the latter part of the winter of 1885,
I know that it was in the winter when the sleighing was nearly at an end.
(4) Death Foretold.
On Monday eveningof second week in September, 1885, I boarded the steam -
ship Hamonia, in company with an aunt and my little son from Le Havre,
France — a German ship. It was storming when we left, and stormed all the
voyage till the last three or four days. Thursday morning of our first week out,
I related a dream which I had through the night and whioh was this : It
seemed there was a funeral going on in the night and I saw it, and I followed
the party, three or four men, up on deck, and there saw them slide the body
off a board into the water. As I turned to go back, a form in a long black robe
oame before mo, which I felt, without an introduction, was Death, and it said,
"I'll claim another before you land—follow me, and I will show you where."
I followed down the stairs around the aislo, and as it neared my own room my
heart stood still, for my little boy had been deathly sick all the time. But it
passed our door ; then I breathed more easy and followed on and on till we
Juse, is:)2.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 27o
were near the front of ship on the left-hand side, as we faced the front.
It stopped before a room and the door opened, and there on a couch was a
body covered with a sheet down to the knees ; from there down I could see
the pant legs and boots of a man. My aunt was dressed by this time and
went out. In a few moments she came back excited and said, "There ««s
a funeral last night. Do you remember hearing a child cry so the first two
days out ! It died last night, about six or seven, and was buried at midnight
by the officers." It was from the steerage passengers. We both looked
amazed, and I said, " Let's watch now for the other, it's a man on this side
of the ship." Time ran on—oh so stormy I We should have landed the next
week Thursday, but did not till the following Saturday (either the 16th or
17th of September, I have books packed which would give me the exact
date). The day before landing, Friday, was beautiful and bright, and every
body was on deck. I had been thinking of my dream and the other death,
and asked the steward if anyone was sick, and he said : " No, everybody is
well." My aunt had done the same, for as we sat on deck she said : "I
guess we won't have the other death. I asked one of the waiters if anybody
was sick, and they said, ' No.' " I said I had, too. We were called to lunch
and were just coming back on deck when it was announced the doctor of the
ship was dead. It was laughed at by several who had seen and talked with
him in the morning, but I felt it was so. My aunt came running with the
news. They had gone to call the doctor to lunch and found him sitting in
his chair, dead. My aunt said : " Do you know where his room is 1 " I said,
"No, do you 1 " She answered, "No," but said : " Let's go and see if it is
where you said," and we did so. When I got to the place, I said : " Here
is the place." But there was no name on the door. (The officers' rooms
always had their name on the door.) I said : " Well, let's go and look on the
other side." We did so, and there met the stewardess and asked where was
the doctor's room, and she said, " Just on the other side, about opposite, but
you will see there are two rooms, one over the other—his is the upper one,
being nearer and opening handy to the hospital." And we went back, and
it was where the dream located it, only it was the upper room instead of
the one that the door opened from the passage-way.
C. McCall Black.
Mrs. Black's aunt writes ; —
[Received April 11th, 1891.—R. H.]
Canton, 111.
This is to certify that on September 1st, 1885, I came from Germany on
steamship Hamonia, and my niece, Carrie McCall Black, was one of the
company. One morning, after being out two or three days, and while
dressing for breakfast, she said : " I had a funny dream last night," and then
related that it seemed a funeral was going on board of ship in the night. She
saw them and followed it up on deck and saw them slide the baby overboard.
Then a figure she called Death said to her: "There will bo another one
called before landing. Follow me, and I'll show you where." And she
followed through the ship till it stoppod at a door, on one side of the ship,
near the front of the ship. The door opened and there lay a body covered
with a shoot down to the knoes ; from there she saw the pant legs and boots
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Juse, isy2.
of ,1 man. I was the first out of our room and was out but a few minutes
till I heard a child had been buried at sea during the night from the steerage.
I hastened to our room and said to my niece : "There was a funeral last night.
That child we heard cry the first two days out died last night at six and
buried at midnight." We were both surprised, but expected then there
might be another. A week or more afterward, on Friday morning, the
weather was clear, and everybody well. We had a stormy passage. My
niece and I both thinking of the dream had asked officers if anyone was
sick, and " All well " was the answer, and would land Saturday in New York.
We had just returned from lunch, on dock again, when the word came the
doctor of the ship was dead. They had gone to call him to lunch, and he
was sitting in his chair, dead. I asked my niece if she knew where his room
was and she said " No," and returned the question to me, and I said, "No.
Let's go look if it is where you located it in the dream," and we went. When
we got to the place, she said, " Right here," but there was no name on the
door (the officers' rooms all had their names on the door). She said, " Well,
let's go look on the other side," and we did, and there met a stewardess, and
asked where was the doctor's room. She said, " On the other side, near the
front, and you will find one room over the other, his is the upper room to be
nearer the hospital." And we went back, and it was where the dream had
located it, only it was the upper room instead of the one right off the aisle
or passage. Mrs. Grace Hornstein.
Mrs. Black also describes a premonitory dream which she had in
January, 1891, of finding herself officiating as a trance speaker at a
Spiritualist funeral, which she had never done before. Owing to an
unexpected death and a difficulty in getting anyone else to take the
service Mrs. Black actually officiated a few days later, and all occurred
as in the dream.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
L. 928 (continued).
The following two series of experiments by Mrs. Shield deserve
recording in connection with those printed in the Journal for January,
1892, and in the Journal for December, 1887. The experiments were
recorded at the time they were made and the account was sent to us
within a few days.
The percipients in the first series were " Sam " and " Clara," who
assisted in the experiments of 1887. "Sam" had since then become,
a soldier, and called at his old master's on June 10th, 1889. Mrs.t
Shield writes on June 11th, 1889 : —
" I was informed that ' Sam ' . . . was come to see us. . . .
I found him alone and took the opportunity to renew our exercises in
thought-transference. Very hasty they were, pencilled on a scrap of
paper, but to me so satisfactory that I send them to you.
Jvsb, 1s32.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 277
The boy was to dine just then and I bade him come back early for tea
in the hope that Clara might be at liberty to try with him. I suc
ceeded in this and the second part of the paper is the result."
Agent. Percipient, Number drawn. First Guess. Second Guess.
.Mrs. Shield "Sam" 44 0
1» »» 72 Right.
»» »» 72 63
»» »i 15 53 Right.
1» n 10 Right.
»» ,, 12 32 Right.
11 »i 19 17
»1 » » 23 43 Right.
»t „ 16 18
11 11 88 63
Mrs. Shield and
"Clara." " Sam " 70 34
»» 1» 13 Right.
51 ,, 89 29 27
1» ,, 12 Right.
1' 20 35
»» ,, 15 Doubtful.
» » 11 26 27 15
Mrs. Shield and
1
"Sam." "Clara" 95 35 Right.
»» »» 21 13 31
!1 M 93 Right.
! 1 »» 62 Right.
Mrs. Shield's next opportunity of trying with " Sam " was on March
20th last when he came home from India on furlough and was staying
in her neighbourhood. She writes on April Gth :—" After a long
interval I have had a quiet interview with ' Sam ' and made a few
easy experiments, only with a view to test his ability. They were,
however, very carefully made, and at your request I send them.
The last two were made in the presence of Wright, an untried boy
of 13 or 14, a stranger to Sam, whose few experiments sufficed to prove
his aptitude. In each of Wright's the correct answer was given
instantly, or almost so. Only the first was a failure ; and I recollected
that in other cases I have begun with contact, and in the second
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, is'j2.
experiment I laid my hand on Wright's shoulder, but in this one only,
for a moment. He instantly turned round and took up the cap which
was on the window ledge behind him, and placed it on his head. ''What
made you take up the cap?' I said. 'Because I saw it,' was his reply.
. . I may roniark that nothing had been said about seeing any
thing. IIo was told ' Sam ' would do what I wished without being told,
and I would like him to do the same. . . ,"
Mrs. Shield further states that she had reason to think Sam more
efficient as agent than herself in the experiments with Wright.
Agent. Percipient. Object to be guessed or
action to be performed. First Trial. Second Trial.
Mrs. Shield. "Sam." 79 46 42
»' ii 85 04 87
! t 1 1 14 52 r>4
It », 28 80 18
' 1 1 » Small pill box. " Button." "Stud."
11 »» Empty red cotton reel. "Spool of
Wool." " Spool of
Cotton."
t ' »» Bunch of keys. Right.
1 1 1! Q. " Is anything mixed
with them?" (A label.)
"A bit of
bone."
»» " hittle bunch of red twill. " Bit of
cloth."
M '1 Q. " What colour ? " "White."
' 1 M
Bit of blue silk. " 1'apcr." "Cloth."
1 1 ! t
Q. " What colour t" "It looks
white."
!» !1
To put his hand on the
clock face.
Bight.
M 11 To close the table drawer. Right,
To sit on a certain dis
tant chair. Right.
Mrs. Sim
and 8an
1 1
id Wright. To take up Sam's gloves ()
»at »» To put Sam's cap on his
head.
Right.
» » „ To pick up Sam's whip. Right,
1 1 »l To put his hand on the
coal scuttle.
Right.
Mrs. Shield adds : " T believe these include every experiment made
with Sam [on March 20th], but I feel sure there were one or two more
June, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 279
of Wright's on a scrap of paper that I missed when you were here, and
still hope to tind."
Note by Mrs. Sidgwick.
I visited Mrs. Shield on April 4th in the hope of witnessing experi-
mants with/' Sam " and Wright. In this I was unsuccessful, Sam having
left the neighbourhood and Wright having apparently been so much
alarmed by his uncanny powers that he declined to try again. But
Mrs. Shield very kindly showed me her method of experimenting,
which appeared to me to be very careful and systematic. The numbers
or small objects to be guessed are drawn by her out of a bag which she
holds under the table, and she holds the object thus selected below the
ledge of the table in such a position that the percipient sitting up to
the table at right angles to her. could only see it by leaning over in a
conspicuous manner. Mrs. Shield assures me that she has " never had
cause to question word or deed " in Ihe case of any of the per
cipients in the experiments of which she has sent us records, but that
she regards it as her duty to act as if much depended on her vigilance.
Eleanor M. Sidgwick.
CORRESPONDENCE.
SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS OF THE LAPSE OP TIME.
To the Editor of the Journal ok the Society for Psychical Research.
Sydney, N.S.W., April Wth, 1892.
Dear Sir,—I have boon reading with intense interest Mr. F. Myers's
paper on " The Subliminal Consciousness " in the February number of the
Proceedings. It suggests to me a very probable solution of a difficulty which
has often puzzled me. Why should some people, whose consciousness of
the lapse of time during their waking hours is no more exact than their
neighbours, be able to awake at the exact moment of time which they
impressed on their own minds before falling asleep '! If, as Mr. Myers
suggests, in normal sleep we have "the truest analogy to hypnotic trance,"
then it seems very probable that the carrying out of the self-suggestion to
awake from sleep at a given hour, and the performance of a "post-hypnotic"
command, are referable to the same cause. This cause, Mr. Myers suggests,
is the working of the " Subliminal Consciousness." No one can fail to be
struck by the eminent reasonableness and fitness of a hypothesis put
forward so clearly, and with such a sympathetic grasp of the importance and
range of phenomena, hitherto unexplained, and even unclassified, and on
which so much light is thrown by Mr. Myers's masterly investigations.
E. J. Todd, Assoc. S.P.R.
[The question here raised by our correspondent is one on which we should
be very glad to have reliable observations made and reported to us. There
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1892.
is a very widespread belief that the power exists of awaking exactly at a
specified time, different from the usual hour without having previously
awoke several other times during the night. Many trustworthy people
believe that they themselves possess this power, but few, if any, appear to
have recorded the instances of success and failure, and without this it is
difficult to feel sure that the successes have not been remembered in undue
proportion, or the completeness of the success exaggerated in recollection.
What is to be desired is that those who believe themselves to have the power
should note down beforehand, on any occasion on which they intend to make
use of it, the hour at which they mean to awake, and afterwards should record
the exact time at which they did awake and whether they slept soundly up
to that moment or awoke before. If the success were pretty complete and
constant, comparatively few observations would suffice to decide the question ;
and if the fact were thoroughly established we should agree with our corre
spondent in regarding it as a most interesting manifestation of the power of
the subliminal consciousness in sleep, —Ed.]
CONGRESS OF EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY.
We may remind our readers that the International Congress of
Experimental Psychology, of which a provisional programme was
printed in the Journal for May, will meet in London, in the rooms of
University College, Gower-street, on Monday, August 1st, and the three
following days.
A special section will be formed for the discussion of hypnotism and
phenomena cognate to those of hypnotism, including thought-transfer
ence, crystal vision, etc. Among the foreign contributors of papers to
this section will be Professor Bernheim of Nancy, Dr. Berillon, the
editor of the Revue de I'lfypnotisme, and Professor Delbceuf. Among
the English contributors will be Mr. Myers and Mrs. Sidgwick. Pro
fessor Liegeois, Dr. van Eeden, Dr. Lloyd Tuckey and other well-
known hypnotists will take part in the proceedings.
Professor Sidgwick, who will preside at the Congress, will present to
it a final report of the Census of Hallucinations which he has been
conducting for the last three years, and in which he has obtained
17,000 answers.
The fee for attendance at the Congress is ten shillings. Members
and Associates of the S.P.R. or their friends wishing to attend should
communicate with Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cam
bridge, enclosing the fee. They will then, as soon as the arrangements
are completed, receive full information from him as to the hours of
meeting and order of proceedings.
No. XOII.—Vol. V. [August, 1893,
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates 281
Meeting of the Council . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282
Meetings of the American Branch 282
International Congress of Experimental Psychologists 28:i
Subliminal Consciousness of the Lapse of Time 2vH
Supplementary Library Catalogue 20(i
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Crawford, F. Marion, Villa Crawford, Sant' Aguello di Sorrento, Italy.
Haig, Mrs. C. E., Orchardwood, Ascot Heath, Berks.
Tweedale, Mrs,, Milton Hall, Cambridgeshire.
ASSOCIATES.
Dobie, Stanley L.,SurgeonLt.-Col.,Supt. Govt. Lunatic Asylum,Madras.
Griffith, Miss E. C, 37, York-street, Portman-square, London, W.
Hay, The Hon. Mrs. Alistair, 8, Upper Belgrave-stroet, London, S.W.
Hildyard, F. W., St. Nicholas Club, 81a, Queen Victoria-st., London, E. C.
Murray, Mrs. G. A., 10, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Ramsay, Lady, The Old House, Wimbledon, S.W.
Richardson, Frederic William, F.C.S., 2, Farcliffe-place, Bradford.
Snaith, James F., Ancaster House, 48, Granada-road, Southsea, Hants.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEMBER.
Palmer, Hon. Tiros. W., 1040,Woodward-avenue, Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
Barb, J. M., c/o Miss M.Van Zandt, Library, Columbia Coll.,N.Y.,U.S.A.
Barrows, C. M., Prospect-cbr., School-street, Brookline, Mass., U.S.A.
Brooks, Dr. F. D., 524, Van Bowen-street, Milwaukee, Wis., U.S.A.
Cutler, Miss Anna A., 284, Orange-street, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
Dwic.iit, Mrs. James, Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Keith, Mrs. Bondinot, 126, East 27th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Keith, Miss J. B., 44, Stuyvesant-street, New York, U.S.A.
Leui!usciier,A.L,Humboldt PublishingCo.,1 9, Astor-place.N.Y.,U.S. A.
Librarian, Michigan State Library, Lansing, Michigan, U.S.A.
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Ace, isi)2.
Librarian, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio, U.S.A.
Matthews, George E., Office Buffalo Morning Express, 176, Wash
ington-street, Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
Matthews, Mrs. F. A., c/o Rev. Dr. Hughes, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
Noble, Louis Spencer, Leadville, Colorado, U.S.A.
Pellew,Mrs. H. E., 1637, Massachusetts-ave.,Washington, D.C.,U.S.A.
Tighe, Judge J. G., Germania-bldg., Fulton-st., Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on July 1st, the President in
the chair. There were also present : Dr. A. T. Myers, and Messrs. W.
Crookes; F.R.S., F. W. H. Myers, and F, Podmore.
Three new Membars and eight new Associates were elected. The
election of one new Member and lifteen new Associates of the American
Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
A Minute was made recording the decease of Miss Emily Sturge,
an Associate of the Society.
At his request the resignation of Mr. Robert Miller, of Edinburgh,
an Associate of the Society, was accepted.
Mr. Walter Leaf was elected a Member of the Committee of
Reference.
Some other matters of business having been disposed of, it was
resolved that the next Meeting of the Council should be on Wednesday,
October 5th, at 4.30 p.m., at 19, Buckingham-street.
MEETINGS OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH OF THE S.P.R.
MEETING in boston.
A General Meeting was held in the Lecture-room of the Boston
Society of Natural History on Tuesday, May 3rd, at S p.m. About
100 persons present ; Professor William James in the chair.
The Secretary read the records of the previous meeting, which
were approved.
Professor James gave a brief account of the results of the Census
of Hallucinations, stating that he had received about 5,600 replies to
the inquiry in Schedule A, of which about 540 were in the affirmative,
and he quoted some of the experiences of the affirmative answerers.
The final analysis of these cases, however, had not yet been made. He
concluded by describing the treatment by M. Pierre Janet of a case of
aboulia, where the patient was cured of her lunacy by hypnotic treat
ment. The forms of her hallucinations were revealed by the automatic
writing of the patient herself.
Aug , 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 283
The Secretary then road a " Report of Some Experiments in
Thought-transference " by Dr. A. Blair Thaw, of New York, and after
wards read some extracts from the paper by Mr. F. W. H. Myers
" On the Indications of Continued Knowledge of Terrene Facts on the
part of Phantasms of the Dead."
The Chairman read portions of an account by Professor Bertrand
concerning his experiences during a period of apparent death,
The meeting then adjourned.
MEETING IN NEW YORK.
A meeting of the New York Section of the American Branch was
held in the rooms of Columbia College on Friday, May Gth, at 8 p.m.
About 100 persons present ; Professor J. H. Hyslop in the chair.
The Secretary of the section read the minutes of the previous
meeting, which were approved.
Dr. A. Blair Thaw read a " Report of Some Experiments in
Thought-transference," which will appear later in our Proceedings.
Dr. Thaw replied to various questions, after which some extracts were
read from the paper by Mr. Myers, as at the meeting in Boston, by the
Secretary of the branch.
Richard Hodoson,
Secretary of tho American Btar.chof the S.P.R.
THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF EXPERIMENTAL
PSYCHOLOGY.
The International Congress of Experimental Psychology held its
sittings on the first four days of August —as announced in the last
number of this journal—and sat for 5 or 5J hours daily, usually from
10 to 1 in the morning, and from 2 to 4.30 in the afternoon. The
meeting was attended by over 300 persons, including nearly a hundred
visitors, from all parts of Europe and from America and Australia. I
think I may venture to describe the meeting as a success, since an
address so describing it was presented at the close of the Congress, with
the signatures of fifty of the foreign visitors. This address—after
expressing a generous appreciation of the efforts of myself and of the
secretaries of the Congress, Mr. Myers and Professor Sully, on whom
the chief work of organising the meeting had fallen—concludes with
the following sentences :—
"Finally, the guests from abroad find it impossible to express in any
adequate way their sense of appreciation of the great hospitality of their
reception and entertainment in the great English metropolis. They carry
away with them the most pleasant memories of the social events of the
28-i Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Are., in92.
Congress, and will always cherish the new friendships which they have
funned here with so many distinguished representatives of British culture
and scientific attainment."
I have quoted these cordial words here because the Members of our
Society took a full share in the performance of the duties of hospitality
towards our visitors, and I think they ought to know that their efforts
were duly appreciated.
The Congress is an event of some importance in the history of the
S.P.R., since here, for the firs1 time in England, the representatives of
our Society have claimed a place for their special investigations, as a
recognised department of the scientific study of psychology, and have
had their claim admitted without opposition. I set great value on the
harmonious relations that we have thus established with psychologists
pursuing more beaten lines of inquiry, and I hope we shall succeed in
maintaining them. I do not, of course, infer from these relations that
the reality of telepathy or thought-transference is now generally
accepted by psychologists. No vote on this subject was taken at the
Congress, and we did not desire that it should be taken ; indeed, we
were particularly anxious that it should be clearly understood that no
one, by attending the Congress, was even in the most indirect way
committed to a view in favour of the conclusions which the workers of
our Society have put forward. We were quite content to have the
unrivalled opportunity which such a Congress affords of drawing the
attention of psychologists to the nature and extent of our evidence,
and of explaining fully our methods of statistical and experimental
inquiry.
In order adequately to obtain this advantage, it was necessary that
the Congress should be—what its first founders in Paris intended it to
be—fairly and fully representative of the whole range of experimental
psychology, and should not merely represent the workers in a limited
department of the subject. When, however, the benevolent interest
accorded in Paris to our special lines of inquiry had led Mr. Myers
and myself to undertake the duty, offered us by the first Congress, of
organising an International Meeting of Experimental Psychologists in
London, we were aware that the task of making such a meeting fairly
and fully representative of the whole subject would not be free from
difficulties. We were aware that the amount of attention given in
Paris to hypnotism and cognate subjects had incurred some disapproval,
especially in Germany ; and we were aware that if a Congress in Paris
under M. Ribot's presidency was found to be in this respect unorthodox,
a Congress in London presided over by me might be naturally expected
to exhibit unorthodoxy of this kind in a still more alarming degree.
We were afraid that such expectations might have a tendency to bring
N
Alt,., 18'Ji] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. .285
about their own fulfilment, by leading important representatives of
more orthodox psychology to keep aloof from us.
Accordingly, Mr. Myers and I thought it our duty to show clearly,
in planning the work of the Congress and inviting papers, that we did
not confound our functions as organisers of the Congress with our
functions as officials of the S.P.R. We therefore took special care to
avoid giving an undue place to the inquiries in which we were
specially interested ; and aimed, on the contrary, at making our list of
papers as adequately representative as possible of the various lines of
inquiry, , pursued by very diverse methods, which come within the
range of psychology,—understood in its widest sense as including the
physiology of the brain and nervous system. I think the list of 42
papers (including three reports) which were laid before the Congress
shows that we succeeded tolerably well in this endeavour. But we
could hardly have hoped for anything like this degree of success with
out the invaluable aid of Professor Sully; to whose intermediation we
were further indebted for the privilege of meeting in the spacious
lecture-rooms which the authorities of University College liberally
placed at our disposal.
Reassured by the comprehensive nature of our programme, and by
the names of the contributors who had responded to the invitations of
the two secretaries, the foreign psychologists attended in numbers that
realised our highest hopes. The greatest of the living men of science
of Germany—von Helmholtz—attended the afternoon meetings of the
first two days, before he passed on to the British Association in
Edinburgh. Besides him, the University of Berlin was represented by
Professors Preyer and Ebbinghaus, who both contributed papers on
the interesting subjects of the " Origin of Numbers " and " Colour-
Perception" respectively. Dr. Goldseheider, of Berlin, who was unable
to come, also contributed a valuable paper on " The Muscular Sense of
the Blind." Professor Miinsterberg, of Freiburg, and Professor Lange, of
Odessa, also represented the German school of psychology by con
tributing papers, though they were prevented by illness from being
present in person. On the more physiological side, Germany was
represented by the distinguished name of Hitzig, who contributed an
account of the cure of attacks of morbid sleep by hypnotic suggestion.
From France we had Professor Richet and Professor Pierre Janet, with
whose names all our readers will be familiar ; Professors Bernheim,
Dellxeuf, and Liegeois, known to all students of hypnotism ; as well as
Dr. Burilion, editor of the liecae d'Hypnotising, and M. Marillier, who
has had the conduct of the Census of Hallucinations in France. All these
contributed papers or reports ; and we also received papers from Dr.
Liebeault, the founder of the "School of Nancy," and Professor Beaunis
286' Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Ace, 1S92.
—formerly at Nancy—who co-operated in securing for the School of
Nancy the recognition of the value of its work in hypnotism which is
now generally accorded to it. Belgium, Denmark, Holland. Norway,
Sweden, Roumania, and Russia also furnished representatives and
c mtributors ; and the Transatlantic activity which is now bei'ig turned
into the direction of experimental psychology found expression in four
papers —one of these being by a lady, Mrs. Ladd Franklin, who main
tained a theory of " Colour-Perception " opposed to that of Professor
Ebbinghaus. Among the well-known English psychologists who
attended I may mention the distinguished names of J)r. Bain and Mr.
Shadworth Hodgson ; of whom the former opened the proceedings with a
weighty paper on "The Respective Spheres and Mutual Aids of Intro
spection and Experiment in Psychology"; and I may add that Mr. A. J.
Balfour found time to attend one of the afternoon meetings.
The abundance of our material having rendered a division into
sections necessary, we thought it best to allot Neurology and Psycho-
physics to one section (A), and Hypnotism and cognate questions to
another section (B). The discussions of section B were carried on
for three mornings—Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday ; along
with these, the discussion on a paper by Professor Janet, read on
Monday afternoon, on a peculiar case of loss of memory, and
that on the Report of the Census of Hallucinations, which was
read on Wednesday afternoon, form the part of the whole proceedings
which properly comes within the scope of our Society. I propose
accordingly, in the detailed account that follows, to confine myself
to these discussions, but I must not omit to notice that Professor
Richet in the suggestive sketch of the Future of Psychology, with
which he opened the proceedings on Monday afternoon, allotted an
important place to the " psychologic transcendentale " which we claim
as our special concern.
Professor Janet followed with a description of a case of amnesia which
differed from ordinary loss of memory in being not merely " retrograde " but
"anterograde/' i.e., the patient had not merely lost a portion of her stored
rosollections of the past, but also her power of acquiring new recollections.
The malady was due to an emotional shock caused—on August 28th, 1891—
by a heartless practical joke : in consequence of the shock she appeared not
merely to have lost the memory of all events that had occurred during the
six weeks preceding August 28th, but also to have become incapable of
remembering anything that had occurred since : all impressions seemed to
glide over her without leaving the least trace. But some sentences uttered
in sleep showed that though these recollections were now lost to her waking
consciousness, they had not vanished altogether, and the application of
hypnotism was found to restore them completely during the hypnotic trance.
Professor Janet also found that even in her waking state there was an
unconscious memory of these apparently forgotten events, of which he
Aug., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 287
obtained evidence by means of automatic writing or speaking, performed
when her consciousness was concentrated on some other process. His
explanation was that the malady had not affected the memory—taken in its
widest sense—but had produced a peculiar kind of " desagregation psycho-
logique " by weakening the patient's power of ' ' attaching to her personality "
her more recent experiences.
Professor Ebbinghaus, of Eerlin, while recognising the interest of the
facts brought before the Congress by Professor Janet, was inclined to suggest
a different explanation ; viz., that the patient's consciousness was so com
pletely absorbed by present feelings and perceptions that she had not spare
mental energy sufficient for the work of reproducing past experiences until
the distractions of the present were shut out. Accordingly, in sleep, or in
the hypnotic trance, the absence of such distractions was naturally accom
panied by the revival of memory.
The President pointed out that though Dr. Ebbinghaus' explanation
ingeniously met the facts of recovery of memory in dreams and the hypnotic
trance, it hardly seemed applicable to the manifestation of unconscious or
subconscious memory through automatic speaking and writing in the normal
state.
On Tuesday morning, after a paper from Dr. Liebeaqlt, on "A Case of
Suicidal Mania Cured by Suggestion," had been read by Professor Liegeois,
an interesting discussion was introduced by a paper of De. Van Eeden,
advocating strongly the use of suggestion as a therapeutic agency, but
deprecating the use of hypnotism strictly so-called ; on the ground that the
heightened suggestibility of the hypnotic state was an "abnormal con
dition" depending on "ataxia or disintegration of the psyche," which must
bo strictly avoided. In Dr. Van Eeden's view therapeutic suggestion
should be addressed " to the intellect and conscious volition of the sufferer.
. . . Suggestibility, as denned by French authors, consists of two parts,
idioplastic power "—i.e., influence of ideas on bodily functions— "and im
pressionability." His idea is to increase idioplastic power, and bring it as
much as possible under the influence of conscious volition, without in
creasing impressionability.
The discussion on this papor was opened by Dr. Bernheim, who denied
the "abnormality" of tho hypnotic state. The heightened suggestibility
which Dr. Van Eeden regards as evidence of abnormality is found—urged
Dr. Bernheim—in ordinary sleep ; dreams are " sensorial autosuggestions."
At the same time, there are undoubtedly many ways in which suggestion
may be made to operate apart from hypnotism, e.g., in the processes of
hydrotherapy and electrotherapy.
Dr. BihuLLON considered that tho School of Nancy went too far in
identifying hypnotic suggestibility and the hypnotic trance with ordinary
suggestibility and ordinary sleep. The artificial suppression of cerebral
control and the temporary reduction of tho subject to an automaton in tho
hands of the hypnotiser—doubtless in consequence of tho temporary torpor
of certain cerebral cells—must be regarded as the special characteristic of the
hypnotic state. It was therefore abnormal, though Dr. Berillon by no
means thought that it ought therefore to be excluded from medical use.
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Aug., 1892.
Dit. Bernheim' said that the susceptibility to external suggestion which
Dr. Berillon regarded as peculiar to the hypnotic trance might also be
developed in ordinary sleep, if suggestions were given to the sleeper in such
a manner as not to awaken him.
Professor Delbocuf, of Liege, agreed with Professor Bernheim that
there was nothing abnormal in the hypnotic state. He also agreed that
curative suggestion might be equally effective without hypnotisation as with
it ; illustrating this by some striking examples from his own experience.
Dr. Sperling, of Berlin, said that as we do not yet know what normal sleep
is, it is not easy to say whether the hypnotic trance is the same or something
different. Also we must avoid falling into a dispute about words. The
hypnotic sleep was clearly a state of heightened suggestibility, but it was
equally true that high suggestibility was sometimes found in the waking state ;
and undoubtedly suggestion was often a factor in other modes of treatment
than the hypnotic—such as electrotherapy, to which Dr. Bernheim had
referred. Only it was impossible to say exactly how far suggestion operated
before we had estimated what electricity —or any similar agent—could do
without suggestion. The determination of this by careful experiment was a
point of much importance.
After this discussion there was an interesting controversy between Dk.
Bernheim and Dr. Mendelssohn, from St. Petersburg. The former con
tended, in a paper on "Hysterical Amblyopia," that hysterical defects of
vision and all the disorders and diminutions of sensibility in hysterical
subjects were " purely psychical " ; i.e., that the sense-perceptions in such
cases were normal, but that self-suggestion prevented them from havmg
their due effect on tho subject's mind. Dr. Mendelssohn, on the other
hand, argued that some more constant cerebral cause was to be inferred
from tho regularity with which similar effects manifested themselves in
different cases of hysterical affections.
On Wednesday morning Professor DsLBCEUF,of Liege, read the first paper,
whioh was on " Tho Appreciation of Time by Somnambulists." He began
by distinguishing the cases brought forward by him from the ordinary cases of
suggestions called " Suggestions ii echdance "— i.e., suggestions to be realised
at a distant date—which only proved that a hypnotised subject was capable
of performing an act at a date indicated a long time in advance, without any
consciousness of the real motive force that prompted the act. But the faculty
that he had studied was different ; it was that of appreciating more or less
approximately, without conscious calculation or means of indication, the
passing of time. He had studied it with two young, robust and healthy
countrywomen, now married and mothers, good somnambulists, whose names
were constantly to be met with in his works on hypnotism. Those two sub
jects weru incapable of reducing exactly into hours and minutes a number
of minutes such as 1,000 or even 350, much less of calculating at what hour
tho 1,050th minute after 6.35 p.m. would fall. They received suggestions
which they were to perform after 350, 900, 1,(300, 1,150, 1,300, 3,300 minutes.
In two cases out of thirteen the suggested acts were performed exactly at
the time ordered ; in the other eleven cases the time at which they were per
formed differed from the time suggested by a period varying from T'sth to aV th
Alg., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 289
of the whole interval fixed. M. Dolb<euf ended by saying that he drew no con
clusion from his experiments except that the subject was one to be studied.
After the conclusion of Dr. Delbceuf's paper, which will appear in our
Proceedings,
The President said that he had listened with great interest to Professor
Delboeuf's account of his experiments. If he might venture to rush in where
the caution of the author had prevented him from treading, and attempt a
solution of the remarkable results described, he would suggest that we might
suppose an extension of the power of calculation ordinarily possessed by M.
Delbo:uf's two subjects to have taken place as a consequence of the
hypnotic condition, whether owing to the concentration of cerebral energy
incident to that condition or to some other cause. Such an extension would
seem to be more or less analogous to the extensions of the faculties of sense-
perception that frequently occur in the hypnotic trance. It seemed to him
that this explanation was rendered all the more probable by the fact that the
act ordered was not performed exactly at the time ordered in 11 out of the 13
experiments tried by M. Delbojuf. It is natural to suppose that in these
cases the reckoning had been only rough and approximate.
"In connexion with this question," ho continued, " it seems to me that
it would be worth while to make a systematic inquiry into the supposed power
of knowing the lapse of time in sleep, which many persons believe them
selves to possess. If it could be shown that the human organism can some
how measure the lapse of time in sleep, more accurately than it can measure
this lapse through an equally long period of waking life—without the aid of
clocks or watches—it would be easier to understand how this increased
faculty of time-measurement should appear in the hypnotic state. Now,
probably we have all met persons, of the most highly educated class, who
nrraly believe themselves to have the power of waking at any hour they
like—to catch a train, or for any similar object. For such practical purposes
a very rough approximation would, of course, be sufficient, and the explanation
of the alleged faculty which is usually accepted among scientific persons who
do not possess it is that the self-wakcr has really only the power of giving
himself a lighter sleep than usual, so that he probably wakes several times
during the night, or wakes early —when the morning light and noises begin
to assail his senses— and then dozes and wakes at brief intervals till the
appointed time arrives. But I have met several persons who altogether deny
that their own experiences can be explained in this way : and in one or two of
the experiments that I have persuaded them to try, a remarkable degree of ex
actitude without previous waking has been reported. Systematic experiments
on the point are, however, much to bo desired, and my object in speaking
now is, if possible, to persuade some of the persons who believe themselves
to possess this power to make such experiments in sufficient number and with
the care and exactness in recording conditions which are, of course, indis
pensable, if the result is to have any scientific value. It would be necessary
to write down overnight, in hours and minutes, the hour appointed for waking ;
then to note the exact time of waking that came nearest to this, and at least the
number—if not the exact times—of the wakings that had occurred previously
during the night ; to exclude all sounds of clocks or church bells, and, if
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Ate, 1892.
possible, by varying the conditions, to exclude any important operations of
changes in light and noise, and in any case to note these last. If any self-
waker will have the patience to try such experiments systematically and to
record the results, I shall be much obliged to him if he will either send nit
such record, or notify me where it is published."
Then followed a piper by Professor Hitzio, describing a remarkable
case of cure of morbid sleep-attacks by hypnotic suggestion. After this
JIlt. Myers read a paper on the " Experimental Induction of Hallucina
tions." This is not summarised here, as it will appear in the next number of
Proceedings ; but its general character may he gathered from the interesting
speech of Professor Janet, which followed it.
Professor Janet began by saying that he would content him telf with
certifying the reality of the facts described by Mr. Myers. In certain
circumstances there were patients who could not look long on a shining
surface without experiencing illusions and a kind of hallucinations. Some
times those hallucinations possessed interest ; sometimes they might furnish
important information on the state of mind of the patient. He cited some
of the hallucinations which he had studied. (1) It was known that after
serious attacks of natural somnambulism there was a complete loss of
memory of what had passed during the attack. Sometimes recollection
could be restored easily, by divers processes, and in particular by
suggestion. Too often it was impossible to restore recollection in this
way ; and it was then necessary to use artificial means. That of which he
had availed himself most often was the well-known process of automatic
writing ; but other methods might bo adopted. One day a young female
patient had an attack of somnambulism, during which she had written a
letter which she had afterwards torn up, and the contents of which she had
forgotten. By causing her to gaze upon a shining surface he succeeded in
making her read by hallucination the whole of that letter. (2) Many
patients were tormented by fixed ideas. Some had full consciousness of
those ideas, and openly stated what they were. Others could not well
describe them, and did not clearly know what it was which tormented them.
Others had no notion of those lixfid ideas, which provoked only states of
emotion and impulses in them. For examplo, a young man had continual
fear, without being able to explain what he was afraid of. It was sufficient
to make him gaze on a shining surface for some time for him to see the
flames of a fire ; and after listening to a monotonous sound for some time he
became aware of certain other sounds, those of the bugle of the fire
brigade ; in a word, that process revealed the persistent idea of a lire which
he had witnessed at some previous date. (It) Certain patients attacked by
abunlie (loss of volitional power) needed to see from tine to time a person
who acted as the director of their conscience. When the patient had
quitted this director he or she was well ; but at the end of a variable time
again fell ill and needed, so to speak, to be wound up again. It was diflieult
to know what characterised the period of health. .V patient of that kind
had, at the time when she gazed steadily at an object, the hallucination of
seeing M. Janet's portrait, which acted as a kind of moral direction which
persisted unconsciously. As for the explanation of the facts, he agreed that
Aug., 1s92.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 291
Mr. Myers was right in suggesting very different causes according to tho
cases. It was impossible to explain all those complex phenomena by a
single word. There was suggestion, certainly ; but there were ' also other
very different causes operating, such as associations of ideas, and modifica
tions of the state of consciousness otherwise caused.
On Wednesday afternoon Professor Sidgwick read in an abridged form
a part of his final report on the Census of Hallucinations, — of which two ad
interim reports have bean already published in our Proceedings. It is hoped
to publish the whole report as Part XXIV. of the Society's Proceedings early
next year. Professor Sidgwick began by describing the somewhat elaborate
method used to secure as complete accuracy as possible in the statement of the
results of the 17,000 answers received by him to tho questions circulated.
Speaking broadly, it appeared that about one in ten of the persons (taken at
random) from whom inquiry was made remembered experiences of the kind
inquired into. Among these the largest class consisted of realistic human
apparitions of living people or unrecognised human figures, the number of
apparitions of dead persons being relatively small, and the number of grotesque
apparitions still smaller. In only a very small percentage of cases was there
any observed disturbance of health at the time of the hallucination— the
hallucinations of fever and madness having, of course, been excluded by the
original definition. A remarkable class of cases was that of collective
apparitions, the same hallucinations being simultaneously perceived by two
or more persons. In some of these there seemed a possibility of verbal
suggestion from one percipient to another ; in ethers no communication
s'jomed to have been possible except such as may exist independently of any
of the recognised organs of sense. The collective class led on to the still
more remarkable class of coincidental hallucinations, or those which occur
simultaneously with some distant event with which they seem to be con
nected, especially tho death of the person whose figure appears. The actual
proportion of coincidental to non-coincidental cases, after all deductions for
possible sources of error, was in fact such that the probability against tho
supposition of chance coincidence became enormous, on the assumption of
ordinary accuracy on the part of informants. If the theory of a causal con
nection was to be set aside it must be by straining the assumption of
inaccuracy on the informant's part to an extreme pitch.
M. Marillier, in tho course of his report on tho inquiries made in
France on the same subject, stated that he had had great difficulty in obtaining
any replies to his inquiries. This was due to several causes, among which
the chief was the repugnance of the French public to give any information
on psychological subjects. Tho statistical results obtained by M. Marillier
coincided broadly with the result of the English investigation : and the same
is true of the results of tho American inquiry, forwarded by Mr. Hodgson.
In tho discussion that followed
Dr. Osler (Johns Hopkins University) remarked that no one who saw
a hallucinatory figure could be said to be in good health of body and mind.
Tho mere fact of experiencing a hallucination implied some serious organic
disturbance
Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell said that a new moaning seemed to have
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Aug., 1S92.
been given to the term " hallucination " in the report that they had heard :
since, as commonly used in medicine, the term implied morbidity.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers said that Dr. Osier's view was hardly tenable iu
face of the fact with which hypnotism had made us familiar — that a full
blown hallucination could be produced in many healthy subjects by a mere
"post hypnotic order," with no concomitant or subsequent organic disturb
ance. A rarer, but even more instructive, class of experimental hallucina
tions were those caused from a distance by an effort of concentration on the
part of the agent. He saw among the audience Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-
Notzing, who had made a successful experiment of this rare kind.
Dit. vox Schrenck-Notzing then described briefly the experiment more
fully recorded in the Journal for October, 1888 (Vol. III., p. 307).
Professor Fiianklix (Johns Hopkins University) held that if the hallu
cinatory apparition was of a person known to be ill—even if the knowledge
were not accompanied by anxiety—the chances against the coincidence of
hallucination and death would be very much reduced.
The President said that no doubt the chances would be somewhat
reduced in this case : since, if the percipient's stnte of health at the time were
such as to cause a hallucination it would perhaps be more probable that it
would take the form of a friend known to be ill than of one known to bo
well. But mere knowledge without anxietyt could not be regarded as a vera
iwisa of hallucinations : therefore, if —as was most frequently the case in his
collection —tho hallucination was the percipient's only experience of the kind,
the chances would still be very much against its coinciding accidentally with
the death of a friend. Iu reply to Dr. Osier, he wished to explain that tho
statements with regard to health in the report were made, after careful con
sideration of the answers received, with the advice and concurrence of a
physician who was a member of the Committee.
The first paper on Thursday morning was read by Dr. Bkuillox, editor
of the lieruc tie VHypnotisme. It was entitled " Les Applications de la
Suggestion Hypnotique a l'Education." He said that in 188(5 he had lirst
called attention to tho applications which might be made of suggestion in
education. Since then he had tried to induce hypnotism in 250 children of
both sexes, from which he had deduced the following conclusions. Of tea
children from six to fifteen years taken from all classes of society, eight were
susceptible of being sent into a profound sleep after the first or second seance.
Robust, healthy children whose hereditary antecedents were in no way un
favourable were generally veiy liable to suggestion, and consequently very
easily hypnotised. This capacity for suggestion and hypnotism had been
utilised to treat the following cases, which concerned education as much as
medicine : —Nervous insomnia, terror manifested at night, somnambulism,
kleptomania, tics, stammering, inveterate idleness, unuleanliness, cowardice,
the habit of biting the nails, and moral perversity. These facts had since
been verified by a large number of authors. They constituted the practical
side of psychology. Suggestion afforded a process of psychological in
vestigation which enabled them to submit to a rigorous analysis the develop
ment of the various intellectual faculties in the child, and to benefit education
by the use of the experimental method.
Aug., 1802.] Journal oj Society for Psychical Research. 293
Dr. Van Eeden considered that artifices such as paralysing the arm by
suggestion, which Dr. Bsrillon had described himself as using in an extreme
case of thievish disposition, were undesirable with children, and that moral
suggestion alone should be employed.
Dr. Bernheim was of opinion that regular hypnotisation was not often
needed with young children. The mother was able to inspire the needed
suggestions at times of special susceptibility, as during the act of falling
asleep. Even when asleep children would usually reply to any verbal sug
gestion. It was impossible to create either an intelligence or a moral sense
not born in a child ; but it was possible and desirable to ropair by suggestion
those perversions of moral sense which wore merely due to the influence of
bad companionship.
M. Berillon replied that it was impossible to say by simple inspection
whether the lack of moral sense in a child was due to original defect or to
subsequent perversion. The result of treatment alone would show.
M. Delbojuj' agreed with Dr. Van Eeden that physical artifices were of
little service in curing a child, say, of the habit of theft.
M. Bkrillon agreed that the physical artifice should be regarded as a
last resort.
Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, of Munich, expressed the hope that Dr.
Berillon's interesting paper, when published, would contain statistical tables,
indicating the proportion of successes to failures in his experience, and care
fully distinguishing transient from permanent effects.
The President (Professor Sidgvvick) said that he thought they would all
agree that Dr. Van Eeden's method of appealing to the child's moral sense
should be the only one tried in ordinary cases. But he thought that Dr.
Berillon had sufficiently guarded himself against being supposed to do more
than recommend hypnotic treatment as supplementing, not supplanting,
moral suasion. It seemed to him that, so restricted, it was a valuable instru
ment which it would be a mistake to reject.
Mrs. Sidgwick then read a paper on some experiments in thought-
transference, most of which have already been described to the S.P.R.
The paper will probably be published in substance in the next number of our
Proceedings.
The proceedings of the morning concluded with a paper by Professor
Likoeois (of Nancy) on a case of poisoning under the influence, as he
believed, of suggestion ; which led to a discussion on the justice of punishing
crimes committed under the overmastering influence of another will.
On two afternoons during the Congress Dr. Bramwell gave interesting
illustrations of some of the effects of hypnotism, and described some of his
experiences in producing analgesia relieving from sea-sickness, etc. One of
the most interesting things he described was the removal, in one case, of
myopia by suggestion. lie especially dwelt on the fact that it was easy to
insure that patients should exercise free choice as to whether they would
accept or reject any particular suggestion of their hypnotiser.
It is intended that a Report of the Congress should be published in
the autumn, giving abstracts of the papers read and an account of the
discussions. Henky Sidgwick.
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Aug., 1892.
SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS OF THE LAPSE OF TIME.
We have received the two following communications on this
subject from correspondents who have carried out experiments as
suggested in the Journal for June, and have been one successful and
the other unsuccessful on the whole. We hope that further experi
ments will be made on the same subject, which has acquired additional
interest from Professor Delbceuf's paper on the Appreciation of Time
by Somnambulists, communicated to the Congress of Experimental
Psychology (Cf. mite, pp. 288, 289), In making these experiments, the
hour at which it is intended to awake should be recorded in writing
beforehand, and if possible there should be no striking or even ticking
clock within earshot.
I. From a lady well known to the Editor :—
You suggest in the Journal for June that observations might he made
and reported to you on this point, so I send mine. It was a previous
experience of mine that when nursing in illness I could always time myself
to wake with certainty, and these observations confirm that experience. It
seems useless for mo to go on any further, as I never fail ; but then I am a
very poor sleeper, accustomed to wake a great deal, and broken in by lots of
nursing and watching. The testimony of young and healthy sleepers would
no doubt possess more value.
Observations.
July 4th, 1892.— Seeing that the almanack stated that the sun rose at
3.49, I gave a casual, half-determined, half-tentative order: "Wake me at
13.49." I was awaked suddenly, got up and went into the dressing-room,
where the gas burned low and a watch lay on the drawers ; it was the time
stated exactly. Told J. of it.
July 5th. —Order given, again casually, with none of the seriousness of
intention which I should have associated with it had I been going to act
upon the sequence, instead of merely experimenting upon it. This time I
said : " Wake me to take a journey, at 4 o'clock," meaning, wake me at 4,
but not saying so. I was awaked with a struggle of consciousness, could
not remember where I was, or anything, but seemed to be down in a deep
place, like a well ; and 1 heard an inner voice say : " Wake and get up,
it's just 3 o'clock, you need an hour to prepare for a journey at 4." Still I
was but half conscious, when the words were repeated : "It is 3, not 4 ; but
you said, 'Wake me for a journey at 4.'" By that time I awoke com
pletely, and the clock struck 3.
July 6th. — "Don't wake me at all." Was awaked at 4 by a banging
window, accompanied by the immediate observation that it was only the
noise of the unfastened window that awoke mo. Told J. each time.
July 12th. — "Wake me at 2." Was awaked out of a deep sleep just
before the clock struck 2, and ever so many times afterwards with an
uneasy consciousness— "I did not completely awake," as though a servant
calling one were not satisfied because one had only answered and had not
got up, and so knocked again and again.
July 14th. — "Wake me at 6." Obeyed exactly.
July loth. — " Wake me at 3." Woke completely at 5 minutes past 3 ;
but had probably taken that time to become really conscious.
Ace., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 295
II. From the Rev. C. A. Goodhart :—
I send my " observations " as to the above. Personally I have always
believed that I could wake exactly at the time I wanted to, and, indeed, I
have habitually set myself to do so by carefully recounting the intervening
hours and dwelling on the total before going to sleep. I don't think I have
ever missed a train from oversleeping myself, and the waking at several
other times during the night has only been an occasional experience. Still,
here are my recorded observations for over a fortnight, and they hardly bear
out my general impression. Taking an unaccustomed time has either
irritated the subliminal consciousness or in some way upset its calculations.
I expect we often overlook accessories to waking at unaccustomed times,
e.g., retiring earlier in prospect ; the fidgetiness of others who know of our
intention, and help to rouse us, &c. ; though, of course, it may be said the
subliminal consciousness objects to experiments and confounds the ex
perimenter.
C. A. Goodhakt.
Time of going
to bed
Set to wako
July at Woke at
2nd . .. 12.15 a.m. . .. 0 a.m. . .. 4.7 a.m. and 5 a.m.
3rd . 1 a.m. ... (i a.m. .. 7 a.m.
4th . .. 1.20 a.m. ... 0.20a.m. . .. 7.15 a.m.
5th . 1.15 a.m. ... 0 a.m. . .. 6.45 a.m.
Cth . .. 11.45 p.m. ... 0 a.m. .. 7 a.m.
7th . .. 11.45 p.m. ... G a.m. .. 6.45 a.m. (wakeful for probably
half an hour earlier).
.. 12.45 a.m. ... G a.m. .. 6.15 a.m. (woke earlier and went
to sleep again).
9th .
8th .
.. 12 a.m. ... 7 a.m. .. 7 a.m.
10th . 3.30 p.m. ... 4 30 p.m. . .. 4.30 p.m.
10th . .. 10.45 p.m. ... G a.m. .. G.45 a.m.
11th . .. 12.30 a.m. ... G.30a.m. . .. 7 a.m.
12th . .. 12.30 a.m. ... G a.m. .. G.45 a.m.
13th . .. 12.15 a.m. ... G a.m. .. 6.45 a.m.
14th . .. 12 a.m. ... G.30a.m. . .. 4.35 a.m. and 6.20 a.m.
15th . .. 12.45 a.m. ... G.45 a.m. .. 7.10 a.m.
16th . .. 12 a.m. ... 6.30 a.m. .,.. 5.45 a.m.
17th .... 12 a.m. ... 7 a.m. ,... 5.30 a.m.
Bemarks.
1. Ordinary hour for waking is 7 a.m.
2. The 10th is the only day when it was imperative that I should wake
nt 7, as I had an engagement—still 7 was the ordinary hour. In the after
noon I set myself to sleep for an hour ; but then, when I sleep in the after
noon, I almost always do sleep for an hour.
3. The early wakings associated with the first entry had an independent
origin which accounts for them adequately.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last list (u Journal" for May, 1892,).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
Lettre d'un Medecin de la Faculty de Paris, a un Medecin du
College de Londres, Ouvrage dans lequel on prouve contre
M. Mesmer que le Magnetisme Animal n'existe pas (Im
perfect) TheHayue, 1781*
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Aug., 1892,
Lettre d'un Mkdecin a M. Court cle Jebelin en reponse a celle
que oe Savant a adressee a ses Souscripteurs, et dans
laquelle il fait un eloge triomphant du Magnetisme-Animal
Bordeaux, 1784*
MEXMER(Dr.), Memoire sur la D<Scouverte du Magnetisme Animal
(Imperfect) Paris, 1779*
Tarchanoff (Jean de), Hypnotisme, Suggestion et Lecture des
Pensees. From the Russian by E. Jaubert Paris, 1891
Wurtz, Prospectus d'un nouveau cours theorique et pratique do
Magnetisme Animal Strasburg, 1787*
Dessoir (Max), Neues iiber den Hypnotismus. Feuilleton des
Deutschen Roman-Zeitung
Dreher (Dr. Eugen), Der Hypnotismus, seine Stellung zum
Aberglauben und zur Wissenschaft Berlin, 1889
Kramer(P. VV.), DerHeilmagnetismus. Seine Theorie und Praxis.
3rd Edition Leipzig, 1884
Muller (Dr. Egbert), Enthiillung des Spukes von Resau.
3rd Edition Berlin, 1889
Reichel (Willy), Der Heil-Magnetismus Berlin, 1891
Reichenbaoh (Karl Freiherr von), Ein schwerer Sensitiv-
Somnambuler Krankheitsfall geheilt ausschliesslich mittelst
einfacher Anwendung dor Gesetze des Odes. Herausgegeben
von Dr. A. Freiherrn von Schrenck-Notzing Leipzig, 1891
Sihmiiikunz (Dr. Hans), Psychologie der Suggestion, mit Arzlich-
Psychologischon Erganzungen von Dr. F. C. Gerster
Stuttgart, 1892
Schrenck-Notzino (Dr. A. Freiherr von), Die Suggestions-
Therapie bei Krankhaften Erscheinungen des Geschlechts-
sinnes Stuttgart, 1892t
Grimaldi (A.), e Fronda (R.), Trasmissione del Ponsiero e Sugges-
tione Mentale Naples, 1891
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
Brodie (Sir B. C., Bart.), Psychological Inquiries. 2nd Edition.
London, 1855
Didier (Adolphc), AnimalMagnetism and Somnambulism. London, 185G
Martineai' (Harriot), Letters on Mesmerism. 2ndEdition. London, 1845
Revelations of a Spirit Medium, or Spiritualistic Mysteries
Exposed. By A Medium St. Paul, Minn., U.S.A., 1891
Soameh (J. M.), Trace, (The Contemporary Bcrieu; June, 1892)
London, 1892
D'Aiglun (Lt. Col. De Rochas), Les Etats profonds de l'Hypnose
Paris, 1892
Scobardi (R. P.), Rapport Confidentiel sur le Magnetisme Animal
Paris, 1839
Seconde Lettre do Gros-jean a son Eveque au Sujet des Tables
Parlantes, &c Paris, 1855*
* Presented by Mr. J. Russell.
t Presented by Dr. Baron von SehrenektNotzing.
No. XCIII.—Vol. V. [October, 1892-
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates
Meeting of the Council
A veridical Message given by Automatic Writing
Cases Received by the Literary Committee
Subliminal Consciousness of the Lapse of Time
The Late Colonel Bundy
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases
PAGE
. 287
. 2911
. 299
. 302
. 30S
. 310
. 311
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
Mangin, Louis, 130, Boulevard Haussmann, Paris.
MEMBERS.
Brooke, Lady, Ranee of Sarawak, 12, Hans-place, London, S.W.
Greener, W. O., 7, Park Hill-road, Harborne, Birmingham.
Guest, A. Haden, L.R.C.P.E., Westbourne, Whalley-range, Man
chester.
Holland, Hon. Lionel R., B.A., 75, Eaton-square, S.W.
Kerr, George, M.A., M.B., 6, St. Colme-street, Edinburgh.
Penn, John, M.P., 22, Carlton House-terrace, London, S.W.
Phipps, Miss, Knebworth House, Stevenage, Herts.
Stephenson, Sir Augustus, K.C.B., Q.C., 46, Ennismore-gardens,
S.W.
Thomas, Joseph William, F.I.C., F.C.S., Drumpellier, Gloucester.
ASSOCIATES.
Bramston, Miss A. R., Witham-close, Winchester.
Buxton, Lady, Shadwell Court, Thetford.
Campbell, Mrs. Napier, 69, Ashley-gardens, London, S.W.
Ermacora, Dr., Padua, Italy.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, 55, Sutherland-avenue, Maida-vale, W.
Hole, Rev. Donald, A.K.C., The Vicarage, Aylesford, Kent.
Holland, Miss, Niddry Lodge, Campden Hill, London, W.
Kenmare, The Countess of, Killarney House, Killarney.
McNeile, Mrs., Admiralty House, Lewes.
Muse, Mrs. Eva S., Santa Fe, New Mexico, U.S.A.
Plenderleith, William, 60, Stroud Green-road, Finsbury Park, N.
Porter, Mrs., The Hawthorns, West Cliff-road, Bournemouth.
Raalte, Charles van, Aldenham Abbey, Watford.
Raupert, Rev. H. G., 30, Belsize-square, Hampstead, N.W.
Robertson, George M., M.B., Royal Asylum, Morningside, Edin
burgh.
Schreiber, Major, 27, Fopstone-road, Earl's-court, S.W.
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1892.
Schuster, Miss, Cannizaro, Wimbledon, S.W.
Seilekn, Count Charles, 23, Wolmersley-road, Stroud Green, N.
Snow, Chester A., 712, Eighth-street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Tout-Hill, Charles, M.A., Whetham College, Vancouver, B.C.
Wilde, Mrs. Oscar, 16, Tite-street, Chelsea, S.W.
Wiszniewski, Prince, 7bis, Hue du Debarcadere, Paris.
Wright, Mrs. Almroth E., Oakhurst, Netley, Hants.
THE AMEKICAN BRANCH.
MEMBER.
Reece, Mrs. Lucy, 110, Osborn-street, La Porte, Indiana, U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
Abbey, Charlotte S., M.D., 717, Franklin-street, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Boardman, W. P., Department of the Interior, Ottawa, Canada.
Brennan, Rev. J. K., Louisiana, Mo., U.S.A.
Curran, Richard L., 219, Genesee-street, Utica, New York, U.S.A.
Fillebrown, Thomas, M.D., D.M.D., 264, Boylston-street, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
Genung, Professor J. Franklin, Amherst, Mass., U.S.A.
Goodwin, W. H., Junr., Sioux City, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hamilton, C. M., 50, Main-street, Salamanca, New York, U.S.A.
Hansen, Otto R., 649, Cass-street, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
Hiles, Ogden, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Jones, Miss Theresa E., South Evanston, I11., U.S.A.
Kerlin, Isaac N., M.D., Elwyn, Delaware Co., Pa., U.S.A.
Manning, F. J. H., 28A, North Front-street, Portland, Oregon,
U.S.A.
McArthur, James, 3,848, Lake-avenue, Chicago, U.S.A.
Mendenhall, Mrs. L., Duluth, Minn., U.S.A.
Mitchell, James, Stock Exchange, New York, U.S.A.
Morgan, W. E., M.D., 34, East 29th-street, Chicago, U.S.A.
Newbold, Dr. W. R., University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
Peterson, Dr. Frederick, 829, Seventh-avenue, New York,
U.S.A.
Scott, C. C, Arkadelphia, Arkansas, U.S.A.
Stillman, Mrs. W. O., 287, State-street, Albany, New York,
U.S.A.
Sturgis, Charles Russell, 63, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Van-Horn, M. L., 104, West 29th-street, New York, U.S.A.
Wait, Marshall, 5,144, Madison-avenue, Hyde Park, Chicago,
U.S.A.
Wheeler, Mrs. Stephen, corner of Sixth and Ash-streets, Fort
Smith, Arkansas, U.S.A.
White, James T., M.D., Room 206, Pioneer Building, Seattle,
Washington, U.S.A.
Oct., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 299
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on October 5th, the President
in the Chair. There were also present: Dr. A. T. Myers, and
Messrs. Thomas Barkworth, Walter Leaf, F. W. H. Myers, and
Frank Podmore.
On the proposition of Professor Charles Richet, brought forward
by Mr. Myers, M. Louis Mangin, 130, Boulevard Haussmann, Paris,
was elected an Honorary Associate of the Society for the ensuing
year.
Nine new Members and twenty-three new Associates were elected.
The election of one new Member and twenty-six new Associates of
the American Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given
above.
The name of Edward A. Parker, of Little Rock, Arkansas,
U.S.A., struck off last year in error, was re-inserted in the List of
Members of the Society ; and it was also agreed that at the close of
the present year he should, in accordance with his request, be trans
ferred to the List of Associates.
The Council recorded with regret the decease of Mrs. Holland,
Niddry Lodge, Campden Hill, W., an Associate of the Society.
In accordance with the wish of Miss Cornelia Hartshorn, an
Associate of the American Branch, it was agreed that her name be
transferred to the list of the English Society next January and
during her stay in Europe.
Several other matters of business having been attended to, the
Council agreed to meet at 3 p.m. on Friday, October 28th, at the
Westminster Town Hall, previous to the General Meeting on that
day.
A VERIDICAL MESSAGE GIVEN BY AUTOMATIC
WRITING.
The following is a translation of a communication from Dr. G. B.
Ermacora, of Padua. He is continuing his experiments : further
matter has already reached us, and more is promised : —
M. 41.
Padua, June llth, 1892.
The following case offers some resemblance to that which is quoted in the
S.P.R. Journal for April, 1892, p. 246 [L. 936], but is in one respect more
complete, inasmuch as it seems to show that the presence or near neighbour
hood of a letter containing news not yet read by the percipient (in this case
a writing medium) may be without influence on the phenomenon. It has,
moreover, I think, a wider interest, as showing that the simple messages
300 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1892.
obtained by writing or similar means may often be more trustworthy than
messages obtained in more complicated and elaborate ways It is most
desirable that cases of this type should be collected in greater numbers and
with greater care.
Signora Maria Manzini, residing here in Padua, has been for a few months
experimenting with automatic writing, and is habitually controlled by a
personality which announces itself under the name of Elvira.
On April 21st, 1892, Signora Maria Manzini received a letter from Venice
informing her that her cousin, Maria Alzetta, was seriously ill with phthisis.
It was long since Signora Manzini had heard news of this cousin, and she
only knew that, having been left a childless widow, she had remarried and
had two children by her second husband. On the evening of the same day
Signora M. was writing in my presence, under the control of Elvira, and
asked questions as follows :—
Q. : Can you tell me if my cousin's illness is really serious ?
After a pause of about a minute and a half the answer came—
A. : She has a very short time to live, and she leaves three lovely children.
Q. : Did you first know this when I received news of the illness ?
A. : No, I have known it for many days, but did not mention it for fear
of paining Maria [the medium].
Q. : Why, then, were you so slow just now in answering my question ?
A. : I went to see how she was, so as to be able to tell you precisely.
Next day Signora M. wrote to Venice offering to go and see the invalid.
On the 24th she received an answer expressing a desire for her arrival, and
stating that the invalid was at the hospital. She wrote again to ask on what
days it was allowed to visit the hospital patients. Before an answer arrived,
Signora M. wrote in my presence (April 28th) under Elvira's control, and we
put the following questions :—
Q. : How is the invalid at Venice ? Do you know why the answer to my
letter has not arrived ? and do you know on what day it is allowed to visit
the hospital ?
A. : The invalid's condition is the same. There is little hope. She has
undergone a serious operation ; there is danger. To-morrow morning Maria
will receive a letter. Visitors such as she are received every day at the
hospital.
Q. : Do you mean because Maria is a relation of the invalid's ?
A. : No, but because she comes from a distance.
Failing to see what connection there could be between pulmonary disease
and a surgical operation, we asked :
Q. : If the patient is in a consumption, what operation can she have
undergone ?
A. : She is in a consumption ; but the operation was necessitated by the
birth of her last little girl.
Next morning Signora M. received a post-card from Venice containing
these words : " Amalia inquired at the hospital and was told that you and
your mother would be received on any day, as strangers from another city, if
you will come when it suits you."
Oct., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 301
The date of the letter's arrival and the news contained in it thus corre
sponded with the prediction. But an embarrassing circumstance remained.
When the postman delivered this letter he said that he had in fact brought
it to the house on the previous evening, but finding no one at home he had
taken it away with him again till the following morning. Thus the messages
from Elvira had been received after the postman had endeavoured to deliver
the letter. Had, then, the fact that the letter was already in Padua deter
mined the communication which announced its approaching delivery and
part of its content ?
On April 30th Signora M. went to Venice and found that her cousin had
really had a third child a few months previously, and after its birth had
been ill in a way which had ultimately needed a surgical operation. Another
small detail previously communicated to Signora Manzini by Elvira was
likewise found to be true. Signora Manzini made no mention whatever of
her own experiments, and her cousin at Venice continued entirely ignorant
of them.
On that same evening, April 30th, on Signora Manzini's return from Venice
to Padua, I was anxious to inquire from the " control " as to the effect of
the presence in Padua of the letter which had been announced on the evening
of the 28th for the following morning. Under the control of Elvira, Signora
M. wrote the following answer : "I did not know that the letter had arrived ;
but I was sure that Maria would receive it next morning, because those
who wrote it had intended that it should reach her in the morning. They
had intended to post it in the evening, but instead of that they posted it
directly it was written. I was, in fact, mistaken ; for it was a mere chance
that it was actually received in the morning."
I then requested Signora M. to write to her friends at Venice in the follow
ing terms : "I would beg you to satisfy a feeling of curiosity on my part
with regard to a presentiment which I had about your last letter. I should
like to know whether it was posted at the hour which you originally intended ;
or whether you changed your intention and posted it at a different hour.
Will you please tell me all you remember about this ? "
The following answer was received on May 2nd :—.
" I had meant to post my last letter to you in the evening, but, fearing to
forget it, I posted it at mid-day, when I had occasion to go out."
To resume the facts. Automatic writing informed us of facts entirely
unknown to our ordinary consciousness ; namely, the fact that the invalid
had three children, and the fact that she had undergone an operation. Thus
far we might invoke telepathy and clairvoyance as the explanation. Then
there was a true prediction of the arrival of a letter, and of part of its con
tent. But although the letter was delivered on the morning specified, it
had, in fact, already arrived in Padua when the communication was made,
and its non-delivery in the evening was due to accident. Clairvoyance would
not explain this incident, as that power might have been expected to reveal
the presence of the letter in Padua. Neither was there an indication of so-
called psychometry,—an influence from the nearness of the letter itself. But,
lastly, an automatic message explains the incident in the simplest manner,
and that explanation turns out to be the true one.
Dk. G. B. Ebmacora.
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1892.
I have read Dr. Ermacora's account, and confirm its complete accuracy.
I will add in explanation that there had been a slight difference between
myself and the family of my cousin Maria Alzetta. I had neither seen her nor
received any letter from her since the year 1886, when I left Venice to live
in Padua. Two years ago my brother visited Venice, and told me that he had
heard indirectly that my cousin had remarried and had had a child. Last
summer a connection of mine came from Venice and told me that my cousin
had had a second child. After that I had heard nothing more of her till
the 21st of April last, when Dr. Ermacora's narrative begins.
Maria Manzini.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 943.
The following dream, which evidently made a great impression
on the dreamer, shows a sufficient amount of correspondence with
actual fact both in the time at which it occurred and in detail (black
man, schooner in distress) to suggest that it was in some way caused
by these facts—and it adds interest to it that it led to the rescue of
the distressed men. It is not quite clear how much of Captain
Scott's narrative was taken from contemporary notes, and probably
no further evidence could be obtained as to this now : —
Document I.—From Bishop Hale.
The colony of Western Australia (called at the time the Swan River Settle
ment) was founded in 1829. Captain Scott must have gone there very shortly
after that period.
In the year 1848, I being then Archdeacon of Adelaide, went to Western
Australia in attendance upon the Bishop of Adelaide. Captain Scott showed
great readiness to assist the Bishop, and both he and I received from him
many acts of kindness.
He, one day, told me about his dreams and the circumstances connected
therewith. He told it all with such animation and such varying expressions
of face that he gave one the idea that the things he spoke of were passing
vividly before his mind's eye as he described them.
I was, of course, greatly struck by the narrative and said I should like
very much indeed to have the narrative in writing. He said at once that I
should have it ; he would have the copy of his log, which he had by him,
transcribed for me. I received the MS. a few days afterwards.
His last illness was a long and wearisome one, and the old man was pleased
when any friend would look in and sit with him for a time. I was then
Bishop of the diocese, and I was aware that the clergyman of his parish
(Fremantle), Mr. Bostock, was in the habit of sometimes taking his seat by
the old man's bedside, in addition to the performance of the usual devotional
services.
I never had upon my own mind the slightest doubt about the truth of
Oct., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 303
the narrative, but I was quite aware that some persons to whom I might
chance to show it might feel doubtful about it, and it occurred to me that
Mr. Bostock's friendly visits to the old man afforded an excellent oppor
tunity for getting some declaration such as that which he did obtain.
Mathew B. Hale (Bishop).
March 9th, 1892.
Document II.—Captain Scott's Account.
"June 10th, 1825.
'' On the night of the 7th of June I dreamed that I saw a schooner, and
apparently water-logged, with several men in her and a black man among
them. On the eighth I dreamed the same and got up and started the mate
up aloft. I stayed on deck until daylight. On the 9th the same dream
occurred. Got up and altered the ship's course, having passed between
Guadeloupe and Antigua, the day previous, and at 8 p.m. heavy squalls
with heavy thunder and lightning ; shortened sail. Daylight made all sail,
fine pleasant weather. On the 10th, at 8 o'clock, altered the ship's course from
W.S.W. to S.W. two points for the purpose of ascertaining the true position
of the Bird Islands, or to see if these really existed (as on my chart it was
marked doubtful). I was at this time very uneasy in my mind, supposing
that something was going to happen to my ship. I had related my dream to
my mate and passengers, Don Joseph Sevarra, John Poingestre and Wm.
Richenburg, Esqrs., merchants at Carthagena, who wrote the circumstances
to the Humane Society and to their house in London.
" On the morning of the 10th, at 9.3 a.m., we were all at breakfast, the
officer on deck called down the skylight and said that a squall was coming.
I immediately repaired on deck to take in the small sails. On looking astern
the ship where the squall was coming from, we saw a boat with a large flag
flying on an oar, and a man standing up in the bow holding it. I immediately
hove the ship to and took in all studding and small sails. My men that were
aloft furling royals said that they could see a number of men and that they
thought it was a pirate. One of the men stated that was just the way that he
was taken the year previous in the same seas. My passengers and officers then
requested me to keep the ship away, which I did, they stating that if they
should turn out to be pirates, I should not recover my insurance for my ship.
I then kept her away under her reef'd sails and went down to breakfast. After
my entering my cabin, I felt very uneasy and returned to the state room.
Immediately my dream came forcibly in my mind. I then put two pistols
and my cutlass by my side and went on deck, called all hands on deck, and
again hove the ship to and desired Mr. Poingestre to take the wheel and steer
the ship. I then ordered the first officer to lower his boat down and go and
see what the boat was. I then ordered the guns to be loaded, made sail, and
made a tack towards the boats. On my coming up with them, found that my
mate had taken the captain and his men out of the boat and taken them into
his, Captain Jellard's boat having a great quantity of water in, very nearly
up to the thwarts, also a large shark, and had her in tow.
" After getting Captain Jellard on board, and his men, which were in a
very weak state, not able to speak with the exception of the black man ;
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1892.
from him I got all the particulars, as follows : it appeared that they belonged
to the schooner James Hambleton, of Grenada, from America, bound to
Grenada, and being short of water, having a very long passage through
light winds, were going on shore for water on the Island of Saints, it then
being calm. After leaving their ship a light breeze sprang up and the schooner
kept her ground, but the boat pulling in a different direction and the cur
rent running so strong that the boat's crew became quite exhausted. That
at daylight they had the mortification of seeing the schooner inshore of
them as far as they could see from the boat, the boat still drifting further
from land and ship until they lost sight of her altogether. The following
day they had a very dreadful time of it ; it blew a heavy gale, with thunder
and lightning ; they had to make fast the oars, mast and sail to the painter
of the boat, and let the boat drift to break off the sea that was running.
During all this time they had no water or anything to eat. The following
day was nearly calm, very light winds and a hot, scorching sun ; being in
the latitude of 16° 21', longitude 63° 14', their sufferings were very great all
day. Both captain and men tore their clothes off their backs and poured
water on themselves to keep them cool. On the morning that I discovered
them the black man appealed to his God, saying, ' If God hear black man as
well as white man, pray send me fish or shark for massa to eat, no let him die.'
The all-merciful Father heard his prayers and sent him a large shark, which
was lying in the boat on her being brought alongside, of which they had drunk
the blood and eaten part of the flesh. I immediately knocked in the head of a
water puncheon and made them a warm bath and put them severally into it
for the purpose of cooling them and getting some parts of their shirts off their
skin which were sticking to their backs, their skin being all blistered with the
sun and salt water. I gave them a little tea to moisten their mouths every
few minutes, until some of them prayed for food and asked for some biscuit,
and gave them rice water and barley water occasionally. After a good sleep
Captain Jellard sent for me below and wished to speak to me. On searching
his pockets to see if the black man had told the truth about his ship, I found
his register and manifest of his cargo. This satisfied me all was correct,
and that they were not pirates. During our conversation I found that I had
been in company with Captain Jellard in St. John's, Newfoundland, in the year
1814, he then commanding a fine schooner called the Catch Me Who Can,
belonging to Spuryar and Co., of Cool.
" In a few days they all came round. I gave them up to the British Consul
at Carthagena and requested him to lose no time to send them on, as we
feared that something would be brought against the mate of the schooner.
Captain Jellard having all his papers with him. On my arrival in England,
I found that Captain Jellard only arrived there three days previous to the
execution of his mate and remaining three men, they having been tried for
murdering their captain and the other three men. Had not the Consul sent
them over in the packet to Jamaica and requested the admiral to send them
up to Grenada with all dispatch, these four poor souls would have lost their
lives innocently. [Signed] "Daniel Scott,
" Commanding the Brig Ocean from [illegible] bound to Carthagena.
"I, George James Bostock, Chaplain of Freemantle, W. Australia, do
hereby certify that I attended Daniel Scott in his last illness, February, 1865,
Oct., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 305
wherein he repeated the substance of the above as most solemnly true, and
ascribed the whole event to the direct guidance of an over-ruling Providence.
[Signed] " George J. Bostock,
" 9/5/1865."
We have endeavoured to trace the log-book referred to in Bishop
Hale's letter, but without success. Inquiries have been made
through Lloyd's Shipping Agency and the Board of Trade, but no
log dated as far back as 1825 can be produced—it was not till 1854
that trading vessels were compelled to render official log-books.
G. 224. Apparition and Noises. Haunted House.
In the following case we have evidence at first hand, not only of
noises but of apparitions seen by three different people in a certain
house. But it must be observed that the figures seen were different,
and also that the later percipients were aware of the earlier pheno
mena. We are requested not to print names of witnesses or house,
and the initials given are not the true ones : —
Document I. —From Mrs. A.
October 30th, 1889.
The first time I saw " Dorothy " (as we have named the figure which has
appeared at different times to three of us) was in August—I forget the day
of the month—1881. I was rather late for dinner and went hurriedly into
my dressing-room to get ready when I was startled by seeing close to me,
and close to my washing-stand [our correspondent here gives a diagram show
ing the position of the figure] a figure of a short woman. It looked to me,
in the second that I saw it, like an old nurse. The dress was black, and a
white apron covered her chest and the front of her dress. The face I could
not see ; all the head seemed enveloped in some light lavender-coloured
gauze. It was gone so quickly I could hardly realise I had seen anything,
and yet I know I did. She went so quickly ; it reminds me now, when 1
think of it, of the sudden collapse of a bright-coloured soap bubble. The
moment I got down to dinner I told my husband what I had seen. I have
seen Dorothy three or four times since this, but never her face, and she in
variably disappears, or goes out, so quickly that I have not time to be
frightened. A friend of ours (Miss B), who laughed us to scorn about my
'' apparition," saw her one evening in our drawing-room. I was in the room
at the time, but being very tired my eyes were closed and I saw nothing.
She walked from the fireplace, Miss B said, into the inner drawing-room,
where her sister, Mrs. C, was sitting in a chair opposite the fire, and dis
appeared. Mrs. C saw nothing. Miss B made a sketch of what she saw,
and now she will not sleep in our house ! What she saw was totally different
to my old nurse. I have not seen Dorothy now for several months. My
daughter, Mrs. D, has also seen the figure. I have never noticed any altera
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct.. 1892.
tion in the furniture. Mrs. C does not believe in Dorothy, but for all that
she told me once that when she was playing in her bedroom, on a harmonium,
a hand was laid on her shoulder ; on turning quickly to see who it was she
saw no one.
Document II. —From Mrs. A's daughter, Mrs. D.
[October, 1889.]
I first made Dorothy's acquaintance about three years ago. I don't
remember the date, but it was a summer evening about a quarter-past seven.
I was sitting on the stairs (which are narrow) petting our little dog when
I looked up and on the flight just above me saw, as I thought, one of our
servants, so I said, " Will you please take some hot water to my room,"
when to my surprise the figure vanished, whether into thin air or upstairs I
don't know. I laughed and said to the dog, " I fancy we've seen ' Dorothy.' "
Then one of the maids came up and I asked her if all the rest of them were
downstairs, and she said, " Yes, in the kitchen." We have only one flight
of stairs in our house. The apparition was in black, with a white apron,
but somehow I did not notice her face. [Mrs. D gives here a sketch show
ing the head and face hidden by the turn of the stairs.] I've often men
tioned this at home, and told other people, too.
My only other experience was while sleeping in our " ghost-room." I
used to go to bed perfectly happy and not in the least nervous, but always
woke up about four every morning, cold and shivering and in great terror ;
at last this got so unpleasant that I would not sleep there any longer.
Several friends have had various and odd experiences while sleeping in
that room, and a cousin who is here now says she woke up two nights in
the same manner, and feeling a sort of presence in the room. The first time
she did this she had not heard of " Dorothy."
Document III.—Miss B's Account.
October 30th [1889].
Mrs. A and I were sitting in the drawing-room, dimly lighted with gas,
and Mrs. C was in her sitting-room, brilliantly lighted with a perfect fire
of gas ; the half of the folding doors between the two rooms was wide open,
the gas from the inner room falling brightly upon its white paint. I was
not asleep, nor had I been for an instant, but was sitting with my eyes closed,
and had been listening to the buzz of my sister's and Mr. A's voices, a few
moments before. Mr. A had left the room, so that there was no one but
my sister in the sitting-room, and Mrs. A sitting opposite the fireplace on
one side of the table, and myself sitting at right angles on the other side
of the table. I opened my eyes and they rested upon the object of the sketch.
I tried every way possible to explain to myself what I saw before me, trying
all I could to see it into Mrs. A, but it was too small a person for her, and
when a few minutes afterwards I went and found her in her usual place and
taxed her with having gone into Mrs. C's room her reply was, " I have not
moved out of this chair ! " She was sitting as it were sideways to the ghost,
and could not have seen it unless she had turned her head. I was dumb-
foundered but not frightened at what I saw, for I was determined to see how
Oct., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 307
her dress ended and it ended exactly as I have represented it, in a roll of
dark cloud through which I could not see the carpet ! I neither saw her
come nor go. I have been several times to , and have never seen her
but that once. I am sure the furniture was not moved in any way. She
did not touch me, I am thankful to say, for I should not have liked that.
The sketch enclosed by Miss B represents a slight figure in flowing
dress drawn in at the waist, and the skirt ending in cloud-like rolls,
the figure seen almost from the back, and of the face, only part of
one cheek visible.
Document IV.—A Letter from Mr. A.
March 22nd, 1889.
Deak Sib,—I have always been a little sorry that so many have got hold
of the story of our ghostly (?) manifestations at my house—because such may
injure the value of the property to the landlord, and as we really know so
little about this subject it seems to me unfair. So I should not at all like
the matter to become more public, or the exact house mentioned if spoken
of. I do not otherwise mind telling you briefly our experiences. Our first
notice of anything peculiar was about 1881, very shortly after our coming to
, when we were attracted by frequent ringing of a bell at night, suffi
ciently loud and distinct to awaken more than one ; this generally about 2
a.m. On one occasion our large dog howled. We examined our bell wires
and bell hangers, but never could discover movements in any bell. At
intervals this went on—sometimes months elapsing between, and then a bell
manifestation—for some years. Now we never hear it. Second class of the
mysterious was noises. Certainly I have on several occasions, at intervals,
heard irregular noises in one particular room, as though furniture, &c. were
being dragged about the room. This has also been heard by people sleeping
in the said room. Rats ! Well, may be, but very big ones ? On three or
four occasions persons sleeping in that room have been awoke by hearing
their names called—neither having heard of the affair from others. I may
say, however, that for three years nearly all manifestations of this sort have
ceased. The third species of visitation has been the phantom. This is a
lady—or might be a servant—in dark habiliments and shaded features. This
lady has appeared four times to my wife, once to my daughter, and once to a
visitor in the house. We call her Dorothy. She has on the occasions of
visits to my wife appeared generally standing in the bedroom—and directly
disappeared. Standing on the staircase to my daughter, who mistook her
for one of the maids and spoke to her ; she vanished ! The lady visitor was
a very sceptical person in regard to this subject, and was vastly amused at
the " credulity " of certain persons. But one day, while sitting in our draw
ing-room, the door being open to the other, where several persons were, she
said, " Did anyone come through the room ? " " No." " Well, a lady
in black (she afterwards drew a picture of her appearance) has walked right
through the room and gone into your room." This was about 5 p.m. This
was about two years ago. The last visit was about nine months. My wife
going upstairs—just at the top landing—saw a person approach her who
passed up so close that my wife thought she would be pushed back down
308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1892.
the stairs, and put out her hand and drew back, saying, " Oh, don't ! " The
figure vanished. This was in full gas-light and about 9 or 10 p.m. There
are the simple facts. I have seen no visions ; but these are sufficiently inde
pendent as to preclude the idea of all being optical delusions. The lady visitor.
I may say—when visiting us last summer—would not sleep in the house. We
are none of us troubled ; even our servants do not in the least mind—as they
perhaps only consider it our fad, none of them having ever seen or heard
anything unnatural.
Document V. —Extract from letter from Mrs. A.
We certainly did not know the house had any reputation of any kind
when we took it, and it was not until after I had twice seen the phantom,
or whatever the appearance was, that I heard some sad events had taken
place, not in the house but in the garden—two murdered children and a
suicide.
We have been unable to obtain any further information about this
tragedy.
SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS OF THE LAPSE OF TIME.
We have received the following account of experiments on his
power of awaking himself at a given moment from a Member of the
Society in the North Riding of Yorkshire.
Table Showing Results.
Awoke at Finally awoke
Aug. 31st. 9.40 5.0 5.0 7.10
Retired Set to awake
Sept. 1st. 9.50 4.0 4.3 0.50
„ 2nd. 10.15 4.30 — 6.55
„ 3rd. 11.0 3.0 3.4 7.7
„ 4th. 10.15 4.15 1.55, 4.20 . 6.50
„ 5th. 10.10 3.45 ? 6.5
„ 6th. 10.20 3.45 — 6.50
„ 7th. 10.30 3.45 3.45 7.30
„ 8th. 10.0 4.0 5.20 6.54
„ 9th. 10.0 4.0 4.20 6.45
„ 10th. 10.15 2.15 — 7.12
„ 11th. 8.30 2.15 — 6.30
Notes on above. 7.20
August 31«<.—My watch was 10 minutes fast. I said, "Wake me at 5
by my watch." Was awaked suddenly out of a dream. It was exactly 5 by
my watch. The experience was precisely similar to that when roused by
someone.
„ 12th. 11.30 2.15
Oct., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 309
September 1st.—Awaked 3 minutes after time.
September 2nd.—I was awaked suddenly and distinctly felt a voice say,
" Do not get up, it is all right, it is 4.30," and soon (within 2 minutes) fell
asleep again and finally awoke at 6.55. I cannot explain it but I knew that
it was 4.30. The knowledge seemed to come with a clearer insight than
during ordinary occurrences, and as I noticed this the same voice seemed to
say, " Yes, just the kind of itriyvuxris that a man feels who has died in his
sleep and awakes suddenly in the next phase of existence."
September 3rd.—Again the same disinclination to rise, but on overcom
ing this found time as stated, 3.4 for 3. The odd minutes probably being
wasted in the effort to rise.
September ith.—Determined by previous intimation to send if possible my
thought-body to a friend in Norfolk, experiments to last a week ; tried to
concentrate my whole energy and will on the result, but lacked, I fancy,
power of concentration. Fell asleep almost immediately and awoke at
1.55, feeling exhausted, then awaked at 4.20, or 5 minutes late.
September 5th.—Awoke, but not sufficiently conscious to look at the time.
Much exhausted again by concentration of will—felt sleepy all day.
September 6th.—Did not wake at all. Much exhausted.
September 1th.—When I retired I said playfully, " Are you to be master
or am I ? I will wake at 3.45." I was aroused by my mother at 3.25 to see
Jupiter, which star was very bright in the east. I was up about 5 minutes
and soon fell asleep again and was awaked at 3.45 exactly.
September 8th.—1 hour and 20 minutes late.
September 9th.—20 minutes late.
September 10th.—Did not wake at all.
September 11th.—Went to bed unwell, hence early hour ot retiring—did
not wake at all.
September 12th.—Did not wake.
I did not continue the experiments, being rather uncertain how to act.
I was determined to wake at 2.15, but I was unable to decide whether the
constant determination to wake at that hour would not, of necessity, produce
the effect by sheer force of habit. I had been reading " Principles of Psycho
logy " (W. James), and was rather vague as to the action of subliminal con
sciousness and habit as different motors, apart from the influence of the
former on the latter.
Our correspondent adds: —
Before retiring I noted on paper the hour of retiring, and the time at which
J desired to be awaked, leaving space to insert the time of waking, so there
could be no dispute in case I did not remember in the morning.
There is no striking clock that could have given any assistance in rousing
me. I have just tried to hear a clock in my bedroom and have failed and
never remember having heard it. The nearest church clock is 1} miles away
and very feeble. In fact, except under most favourable circumstances, we
cannot hear a ring of eight bells from the same tower.
I have been accustomed for some years to awaking early, and have always
310 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct.. i892.
used the moans employed in this case, but quite apart from any inquiries
into subliminal consciousness and purely as a matter of convenience.
As a previous correspondent asks for the testimony of " young and healthy
sleepers " I may add that I am 26 years of age, and sleep remarkably soundly.
It is quite the exception for me to wake during the night.
THE LATE COLONEL BUNDY.
The lamented decease of Colonel Bundy of Chicago, the inde
fatigable editor of the Beligio-Philosophical Journal, represents a
serious loss to the small group of those who are endeavouring to deal
with "psychical phenomena" at once with open minds and with
proper caution. On one side of our work we had no more energetic
or useful ally.
Ours, as our readers know, is necessarily a destructive as well as
a constructive task. The realm which we would fain survey is of all
unexplored realms the richest in promise to man. But for that very
reason it has already become the happy hunting-ground of the char
latan and the fool's paradise of the dupe. In America especially the
very alertness and openness of even the commoner minds has led to
a wide uncritical interest in Spiritism ; and " The Vampires of
Onset "—the fraudulent mediums who infest Spiritist gatherings
and camps—live and thrive on the credulity of a populus qui wlt
dvcipi ; of a mass of men and women whose desire to be deceived has
a blindness and eagerness to which the history of error offers few
modern parallels. To check this fraud, to enlighten this folly, was
Colonel Bundy's useful task. To this work he brought a sustaining
belief in the important phenomena which these charlatans simulate
and discredit. He brought a command of newspaper methods which
was essential if he was to get hold of the right facts and to lay them
before the right readers. And he brought a force of character, an
indisputable probity, which was gradually winning him wider and
wider recognition. The long list of adherents to the Psychical Con
gress over which he was to preside at the World's Fair at Chicago
testifois to the belief of all who knew him that he would make of that
Congress a potent encouragement to sincere and careful dealings
with problems which offer so many risks of error. And now we can
form no better wish for those who take up this good man's labours
than that they may walk in his footsteps, and through all labyrinths
may hold fast the clue of his unselfish devotion to truth.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
^
Oct., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 311
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Continued from the April Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases will be gratefully
received.
B L 164. A'1 Pn- Collective.—Mr. and Mrs. Jakeman hear a rustling noise
in their bedroom, and learn next day that the mother of the former died
some few hours before the noise was heard. Date, August, 1891. Recorded
September, 1891. Sent by Mr. Edmund Sinker.
B L 165. Ad P"' &c.—A record of various noises heard before or at the
time of deaths, &c., and of other phenomena. Taken down by Dr. C. B.
Ker, of Cheltenham, from the lips of a lady well known to him, and regarded
by him as a good witness, but who wishes to remain anonymous. Dates of
events, 1846, 1861, 1886, 1889, 1891. Recorded December, 1891.
B G 1. Noises. Haunted room at a Grammar School. Occupant felt
uneasy and heard silk rustlings. He heard that his predecessor had ex
perienced the same. Narrated 1887, occurred probably in 1880.
B G 2. Visual and Tactile. Haunted house, Islekirk Hall, near Wig-
ton, Cumberland, a farm-house. From Mrs. Jackson, Hutton-place, Mary-
port. Mrs. Jackson hears knockings, feels weights on legs and feet, and
sees two nuns. Others said to have experienced the same, but their evidence
is not forthcoming. Date of record, 1888. Experience 6 or 7 years before.
B G 3. Collective. Visual. Haunted parsonage at Warblington, near
Havant, Hampshire. From Observer (? 1791), Mr. Thomas Wilkins, witness.
Written in 1695. Black figure seen by maid-servant. Mr. Wilkins watched
with two others, and he and one of them saw the figure. Mr. Wilkins put
his arm through it and then followed it into a corner, when it vanished.
B G 4. Visual. Haunted house. 2nd hand. 1st hand account refused
for fear of giving annoyance. Woman met on stairs by a member of family
of original owner, who learnt that she was the ghost of the house said to
appear to members of the family. Narrative, 1885. Date of occurrence,
" Some years ago.''
B G 5. Haunted house. Impression on bed-clothes of body of mur
dered lady, who was placed on it, constantly found. Narrative, 1888. Ex
perience, '1884 or 1885.
B G 6. Visual. Unknown hand. Two ladies saw a figure of a military
man in ancient costume on horseback in Villiers Park, between Norwood
and Surbiton. Others said to have seen it. Communicated in 1886.
B G 7. Visual. Haunted house at Cottingham, near Hull. From Mr.
H. W. Barrett. Published in the Hull and East Riding Critic for December
24th, 1886. Pistol shots heard and figure seen by Mr. Barrett. Later his
sister told him she had seen a figure in same room. Skeleton said to have
been found afterwards in cellar. Occurred in 1848.
B G 8. Visual. Haunted house. Little boy sees figure of old man in
room supposed to be haunted by an old man. First hand from father of
percipient. Date of occurrence not given. Narrative, 1887.
B G 9. Visual. A gentleman informed us in 1887 that in the previous
year an apparition was seen in his house by his wife " and some half dozen
other people " at different times. Our informant has promised " a relation
of the apparition " that he will give no further particulars, " even in the
interests of science."
B G 10. Haunted house. From Mr. E. R. Narrator, wife, guests,
servants, and neighbours have had experiences : lighted rooms when they
should be dark, voices in bedrooms, raps on doors. Information is given in
a private letter, 1886, and the writer does not answer further inquiries. Ex
periences began about 1875.
B G 11. Visual. From Mr. A. G. Hill. 2nd hand. Private.
312 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1892.
B G 12. Abstract printed in Journal, Vol. IV., p. 215.
B G 13. Dream. Received through Mrs. Limond. Miss Hunter dreams
very vividly that she sees her cousin, Mrs. R., lying dressed, dying on a sofa,
her father saying, " Look ! she is getting black in the face " Dream told.
Next day letter arrives saying, Mrs. R. had died suddenly two days before.
She had died dressed and on a sofa and, as it was supposed, of an illness then
prevalent in Dublin, which the doctors nicknamed the " black death/' Dream
unique in dreamer's experience. Date of dream, 1868. Date of narrative
1889. No corroboration possible. Miss D., to whom dream was told, is
dead, and father and husband of Mrs. R. cannot be asked as to death.
B G 14. Noises. At Woodhouselee, Miss B. Craigie and her sister hear
knock at door and afterwards hear footsteps and a sigh. Date of experience,
1875. Date of record, 1887. There is an article on Woodhouselee ghost
in Fraser's Magazine for September, 1873.
B G 15. Miss Hays has strong impression of presence of dead brother,
and thinks it the cause of her not being molested by two tramps. Date,
" 20 years ago." Recorded March, 1889.
B G 16. Visual. A gentleman informs us that on opening his bedroom
door on Christmas night, 1885, he saw the figure of a lady standing by wash-
stand. Figure moved across room and vanished through wall. On relating
experience next day it came out that cook had seen similar figure on Christmas
night, 1884. Our informant slept in the same room Christmas night. 1887,
but experienced nothing. Recorded April, 1888.
B G 17. Visual. 2nd hand. A gentleman describes apparitions of "old
woman dressed in brown," " old man," and " figure dressed in white " seen
between 1883 and 1885 in house supposed to be haunted. A dog is unaccount
ably terrified on one occasion. Recorded March, 1885.
B G 18. Visual. Mrs. Harbord sees bright light and then veiled female
figure a few minutes after lying down in bedroom at Theberton Grange, near
Saxmundham. An old lady is reported to have seen bright light without
figure some months later in same room. House not traditionally haunted.
Date, summer, 1875. Recorded June, 1888.
B G 19. Visual and Auditory. Borderland. Mrs. Wood informs us
that in November, 1866, she saw her sister, who died a year earlier, standing
by her bed. She spoke to the apparition and received a reply. She asked
for proof that it was no dream ; figure thereupon untucked mosquito cur
tains, which narrator had closely tucked in, and vanished. Mrs. Wood then
got up and found the curtains untucked. Next day she made a brief note
in her diary, which she sends to us. Recorded May, 1888.
B G 20. Visual and Auditory. Miss E. C. Seymour is awakened by a
noise and sees apparition of a woman in grey, holding up a grey cloak over
her head, in an old room of a house (address private) in Somersetshire. She
hears next day that the room is supposed to be haunted by a woman said to
have been murdered there. Date, about 1850 ; recorded, 1892.
B G 21. Dream. James Geddes, aged 13, dreams of accident to father's
ship and father washed overboard, five days after the event, but before
tidings reach the family. Tells dream at once to mother. Account written
by Rev. John Leathley, who has interviewed the mother and son. Date of
dream, January, 1890. Date of narrative, April, 1890.
B G 22. Abstract printed in connection with B L 33, Journal, Vol. IV.,
p. 316.
No. XCIV.-,Vol. V. [November, 1892.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates
Meeting of the Council
General Meeting
Alfred Tennyson
Experiments in Thoughtttransference by means of Table-tilting
Subliminal Consciousness of the Lapse of Time
Cases Received by the Literary Committee
Obituary Notice
Correspondence
Catalogue of Unprinted Cases
PACE
813
314
314
310
318
320
322
32ti
32fi
32S
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBER.
Helme, Captain Burchall, J.P., Bishopstrow House, Warminster.
ASSOCIATES.
Alcock, Richard, M.B., Burlington-crescent, Goole.
Anderson, Miss Margery, 25, Lansdowne-crescent, Kensington
Park, W.
Childers, Miss Florence I., Villa Dalgorouky, Poggio Imperiale,
Florence.
Coates, Andrew, Pitcullen House, Perth, N.B.
Cooney, Rev. Stewart E., M.A., Tessauran Rectory, Banagher,
King's Co., Ireland.
Murray, T. Douglas, 33, Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Pryce, R. A. Vaughan, New College, Hampstead, N.W.
Spink, Judge, Vernon, British Columbia.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
MEMBERS.
Green, Mrs. Richmond, Easthampton, Mass., U.S.A.
Hull, Miss P. C, 22, John-street, Providence, Rhode Island,
U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
Allen, William H. van, St. John's School, 34, Varick-street, New
York.
Belden, Mrs. A., c/o E. E. Crepin, 4726, Woodlawn-avenue,
Chicago.
Brookes, Henry, 115, Milk-street, Boston, Mass.. U.S.A.
314 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1892.
Clarke, J. E., Ph.D., 214, South 43rd-street, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Compton, Professor Elias, Wooster University, Wooster, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Crepin, Ernest E., 4726, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, U.S.A.
Critchlow, E. B., Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Cunningham, S. A., Altona, Florida, U.S.A.
Deland, Mrs. Louis, 112, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Foster, Mrs. William, 82, Huntington-avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Lewis, P. M., M.D., Lecompton, Kansas, U.S.A.
Peters, E. T., Box 265, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Reynolds, Edward, M.D., 130, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Taylor, Frederick, 174, School-street, Lowell, Mass, U.S.A.
Whiteside, Miss H., c/o A. A. Carey, 1, Brimmer-street, Boston,
Mass.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on October 28th, the President
in the Chair. There were also present: Col. Hartley, Dr. A. T.
Myers, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, and Mr. R. Pearsall Smith.
One new Member and eight new Associates were elected. The
election of two new Members and fifteen new Associates of the
American Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given
above.
The Council records its sense of the great loss which the Society
has sustained by the decease of Lord Tennyson, who had been an
Honorary Member of the Society since 1884.
The Council also recorded with regret the death of Mr. F. S.
Hughes, an Associate of the Society.
Other matters of business having been attended to, the Council
agreed to meet at 4.30 p.m. on Friday, December 2nd, at 19, Buck
ingham-street, W.C.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 54th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, October 28th, at 4 p.m. : the Presi
dent in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers addressed the meeting on the subject of the
late Mr. W. Stainton Moses. The substance of what was said will
appear as a Supplement to the forthcoming Part of the Proceedings.
Nov., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 31.3
The President said that it would not have been right to pass over
in silence the death of one so closely connected with the early history
of the Society as Mr. Stainton Moses, although he had become alien
ated from the Society in his later years. And, under the circum
stances, it seemed most fitting that Mr. Myers, thoroughly
acquainted as he was with Mr. Moses' work, should state frankly
and fully his individual opinion of its value.
Mr. Podmore then read a paper on " Some Experiments in
Thought-transference" by Dr. A. Blair Thaw, of New York. This
paper, which has already been read at meetings of the American
Branch of the S.P.R. will, it is hoped, be published in the next
number of the Proceedings.
The President remarked that we were very glad to receive records
of experiments of this kind, and he hoped that the paper which had
just been read might lead to similar and further efforts. We shall
not really establish even the fact of thought-transference in the sense
in which a received doctrine of science is established—still less will
there be a prospect of learning the laws which govern its manifesta
tion—unless we can bring about a more extensive experimentation.
The experiments are so easy and, if not pressed to monotony, so
interesting—even with a limited amount of success—that he would
urge all who may have the opportunity of experimenting to make the
attempt and send their results to him.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read part of a paper on " Sensory Auto
matism," which will appear in the forthcoming Part of the Proceed
ings. In this paper, which does not conveniently admit of brief
summary, Mr. Myers urged the importance of further experiments
in " crystal-vision." Glass balls, well suited to the purpose, can be
obtained from the Assistant Secretary for 2s. 6d., and Mr. Myers
would be grateful for accounts of any experiments which may be
tried.
ALFRED TENNYSON.
The loss which the English-speaking world has suffered, through
the death of the greatest English poet of this age, has been recog
nised with so full and adequate an expression of national regret that
anything I could say on the more general aspects of this loss would
seem but a feeble echo of what has been better said by others.
What follows, therefore, is written entirely from the special point of
view of our Society, of which, in the third year of its existence, Lord
Tennyson became an honorary member ; a position which he con
tinued to hold till his death. The support of a man of genius
exercising so important an influence over contemporary thought and
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1892.
sentiment, would in any case have been greatly valued by us ;
especially in the earlier period of our existence, when friends seemed
few and scorners numerous. But I have always felt that the
sympathy of Tennyson meant more to us than the sympathy of
another poet of equal genius and eminence might have meant, on
account of the special affinity between the spirit and aims of his
poetic work and the method and teachings of modern science. This
characteristic was very amply recognised in a short obituary note
which appeared in Nature (October 13th): —
" By the death of Lord Tennyson, the world loses the Poet who, above
all others who have ever lived, combined the love and knowledge of Nature
with the unceasing study of the causes of things and of Nature's laws. When
from this point of view we compare him with his forerunners, Dante is the
only one it is needful to name ; but although Dante's knowledge was well
abreast of his time, he lacked the fulness of Tennyson, for the reason that in
his day science was restricted within narrow limits. It is right and fitting
that the highest poetry should be associated with the highest knowledge,
and in the study of science, as Tennyson has shown us, we have one of the
necessary bases of the fullest poetry—a poetry which appeals at the same time
to the deepest emotions and the highest and broadest intellects of mankind.
Tennyson, in short, has shown that science and poetry, so far from being
antagonistic, must for ever advance side by side."
The last sentence faithfully represents what was, no doubt, one of
the deepest aspirations of the poet. At the same time, it is no less
important to note that his very reverence for Science, and willing
ness to learn the lessons that she has to teach, made him feel with
special force the collision and conflict between one aspect of the
teachings of modern science—as presented by some of its most
influential expositors—and the profoundest needs and hopes of the
human soul. Some of the most thrilling passages of In Memoriam
are those in which this conflict finds intense and concentrated
expression : —
Are God and Nature then at strife,
That Nature lends such evil dreams ?
So careful of the type she seems,
So careless of the single life ;
That I, considering everywhere
Her secret meaning in her deeds,
And finding that of fifty seeds
She often brings but one to bear ;
I falter where I firmly trod,
Nov., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 317
" So careful of the type ? " but no.
From scarped cliff and quarried stone
She cries " A thousand types are gone :
I care for nothing, all shall go.
Thou makest thine appeal to me :
I bring to life, I bring to death :
The spirit does but mean the breath :
I know no more." And he, shall he,
Man, her last work, who seem'd so fair,
Such splendid purpose in his eyes,
Who roll'd the psalm to wintry skies,
Who built him fanes of fruitless prayer,
Who trusted God was love indeed
And love Creation's final law—
Tho' Nature, red in tooth and claw
With ravine, shriek'd against his creed—
Who loved, who suffer'd countless ills,
Who battled for the True, the Just,
Be blown about the desert dust,
Or seal'd within the iron hills ?
No more ? A monster then, a dream,
A discord. Dragons of the prime,
That tare each other in their slime,
Were mellow music match'd with him.
More calmly, but no less decisively, is the collision formulated in a
later passage : —
I trust I have not wasted breath :
I think we are not wholly brain,
Magnetic mockeries ; not in vain,
Like Paul with beasts, I fought with Death ;
Not only cunning casts in clay :
Let Science prove we are, and then
What matters Science unto men ?
The conviction expressed in the two lines last quoted did not
spring merely from a transient mood : it is repeated with more
passionate emphasis in a poem called " Vastness," published in one
of his latest volumes (Demeter and Other Poems, 1889) : —
What is all of it worth ?
What the philosophies, all the sciences, poesy, varying voices of prayer,
All that is noblest, all that is basest, all that is filthy with all that is fair ?
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1892.
What is it all, if we all of us end but in being our own corpse-coffins at last,
Swallowed in Vastness, lost in Silence, drowned in the deeps of a meaning
less Past ?
What but a murmur of gnats in the gloom, or a moment's anger of bees in
their hive ?
This twofold aspect of Tennyson's relation to modern science—this
combination of eager receptiveness for established scientific truths
with vehement recoil from the conclusions to which a limited and
narrow application of scientific method appeared to be leading—
rendered it natural that he should give his sympathy and support to
the efforts of our Society. And the memory of this sympathy will
be an abiding possession for our workers, as the poems in which his
convictions were uttered will be for the world, in the widening future
of English literature. Henry Sidgwtck.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE BY
MEANS OF TABLE-TILTING.
From Mr. G. M. Smith.
Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
October 14th, 1892.
I have for many years been familiar with the usual modus operandi and
results in table-tilting but I have no sympathy with so-called Spiritualists as
such. Recently, when reading Phantasms of the Living, I was struck with the
experiment in table-tilting recorded there, Vol. I., pp. 77-81,1 and I made
arrangements with a few friends to meet in my house to experiment in table-
tilting (a thing which none of them had ever seen) with the view of adding
some of the novel features of the case referred to in Phantasms of the Living.
On September 9th last Mrs. Smith (my wife), three young men and myself
sat down with the palms of our hands on a small deal table in my house. In
a few minutes the table commenced to tilt. What follows is copied from a
note written immediately after the experiment and read over to all present
at the sitting. I asked the questions, and in doing so, merely for conveni
ence, used the language and phraseology peculiar among Spiritualists on such
occasions.
1 The reference is to some experiments made by Professor Richet in thought-
transference by means of table-tilting. Here three persons, C, D and E, sat
at a table, fitted with an electrical apparatus which rang a bell whenever the
table tilted. Two other persons, A and B, sat before an alphabet, screened
from the view of C, D and E. A followed the letters of the alphabet in order
with a pen, returning to the beginning as soon as he had arrived at the end.
B noted down the letters at which A was pointing every time the bell rang.
A sixth person, F, apart both from the tilting table and the alphabet, con
centrated his mind on some word chosen by himself and unknown to the
other five. Under these circumstances, the letters which were tilted out
formed a more or less close approximation to the word of which F was think
ing.
It will be observed that in Mr. Smith's experiment the voluntary agent, F,
was absent.—Ed.
Nov., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 319
Q. : Will the influence which is controlling this table please tilt it once
when " No " is meant and twice when " Yes " is meant ? A. : Yes (two tilts
or raps). Q. : Is it a spirit that is controlling this table ? A. : Yes. Q. : Is
it the spirit of a friend of anyone at the table ? A. : Yes.
After a few more such questions and answers—Q. : Will you please rap
(tilt) the table when the letters of the alphabet are pointed to which spell
out your name ? A. : Yes.
I then asked Mrs. Smith to withdraw from the table and sit in a corner
of the room about 6 ft. from the table, and to take a small book with the
alphabet in it and commencing to point at " A " to move slowly towards the
end and back to " A " again, and so on, observing at what letters the table
tilted. Although she was visible to all at the table, yet she was so placed
that no one could form any idea of what letters were being pointed to. These
preparations, which only took about a minute, being finished, we then
continued.
Almost at once the table commenced to tilt at irregular short intervals,
and when it had tilted 7 or 8 times, I being anxious to know whether any
thing coherent was being spelled out, asked Mrs. Smith what were the results,
and she answered that the table had tilted at the letters H-o-w-e-y J-a.
The name of a young man a few years deceased, and known by name at any
rate to all at the table, was at once recognised, his name being James Howey.
I then asked : Q. : Is it the spirit of James Howey ? A. : Yes. Q. : Have
you met your mother since she passed out ? A. : Yes. Q. : Is she with you
now ? A. : Yes. Q. : Does she wish to communicate ? A. : Yes. Q. :
With anyone at the table ? A. : No. Q. : With any of her family ? A. :
Yes. Q. : With Miss Howey ? A. : Yes. Q. : Will she rap (tilt) the
table when the letters of the alphabet are pointed to which spell out her
communication ? A. : Yes. The table commenced to tilt again as before,
but it was not interrupted, and when it had stopped I asked what had been
spelled out and Mrs. Smith replied '. " Good and faithful " had been spelled.
Q. : Do you mean that Miss Howey is good and faithful ? A. : No. Q. : Do
you mean it as an injunction to her to be good and faithful ? A. : Yes. Q. :
Do you wish to communicate further ? A. : Yes. Proceeding as before,
the table at once commenced tilting, and when it had ceased Mrs. Smith
said it had spelled out : " Mind father, and be sure of that." The experiment
here ended, and the striking aptness of the latter communications was much
spoken of by the sitters.
I should not have thought this worth writing out but for the fact that
Mrs. Smith, while pointing out the letters, sat away from the table and in
such a position that no one at the table could form the faintest idea of what
letters were being pointed to. These circumstances remove the case from the
ordinary run of table-tilting experiments.
Of course I was aware of the imperfection of the arrangements, but they
could not be improved at the time, and I at once arranged for a further and
more testing experiment for the evening of September 13th. For this
occasion I secured the assistance of two more young men, one of whom I
intended should write down the letters rapped or tilted out, and the other to
witness that such was done correctly. I also arranged for the sitters at the
table to be in the room and those with the alphabet just outside the door
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1892.
(which was almost shut) of such room. But I regret to say that, though the
table tilted quite briskly, and though we made several changes of persons
from the table to the alphabet, and tried for about an hour, yet there could
not be found the least trace of coherence or intelligibility in the series of
letters taken down as rapped out, although we tried them by inversion,
anagrammatically, and by substituting neighbouring letters, as is done in
the case referred to in Phantasms of the Living. I have not further experi
mented in this way.
George Main Smith, A.S.P.R.
[The above experiments are interesting, not only as evidence of
thought-transference, but as supporting the theory that telepathic
impressions are sometimes received unconsciously and become mani
fest only when the percipient has some means of automatic expres
sion. It is possible also that the unconscious or semi-conscious
nature of the agency—a peculiar feature of this case—was an
important factor in its success.
We hope that other members of the Society may be inclined to
try and report to us experiments under these or somewhat similar
conditions.—Ed . ]
SUBLIMINAL CONSCIOUSNESS OF THE LAPSE OF TIME.
Mr. G. M. Smith, whose experiments in thought-transference
are recorded in the preceding paper, sent us at the same time the
following communication : —
Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
October 12th, 1892.
I may observe that I have for a long time had the belief that it was possible
for certain persons to wake from sleep at any appointed time ; and I have
for many years been able to do it myself, it being often necessary that I should
get up and go out at stated and varying hours during the night.
In the experiments recorded below, the times of retiring, and proposed
waking, were recorded in writing before going to bed and the times of waking
recorded immediately I awoke. In order to make the experiments as testing
as possible, I retired at irregular hours and, usually, appointed times of
waking remote from my usual hour of getting up (about 7 a.m.).
I am rather surprised that the experiments are not more successful, but
I feel that the fact that, behind my resolution to waken, I knew that there
was no actual necessity for my getting up at these untimely hours, was an
unfavourable and potent factor, for although I have no record, I am per
suaded that an equal number of cases in which it has been really necessary
that I should get up would certainly show more success.
I do not feel qualified to offer any comment on the general question, but
I am of opinion that in the experiments here recorded there is an approxi
mation to success which chance alone does not adequately explain. The
Nov., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 321
fact that I awoke at all during the night on these occasions is significant,
as I sleep very soundly, and very rarely waken before about 6 a.m., unless
roused by some physical cause, whereas, in these experimental awakenings I
always knew perfectly, immediately on awakening, that I had not been
roused by. any physical cause but had awoke solely in consequence of my
resolve to do so at the time appointed.
There was a clock in the bedroom, but it does not strike.
The record given below contains a full account of all the failures and suc
cesses and also the number of times I awoke before the appointed time.
Date 1892.
Aug. 29
„ 30
„ 31
Sept. 1
„ 2
„ 3
„ 4
„ 5
9
10
11
12
13
Retired at Proposed to waken at Awoke at
10.30 p.m. . . 6.0 a.m. . . 5.20 a.m.
10.45 p.m. . . 1.0 a.m.
Oct.
14th to
18 ..
19 ..
20 ..
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
1
1.10 a.m.
11.20 p.m.
10.30 p.m.
Midnight
11.0 p.m.
11.30 p.m.
9.45 p.m.
3.30 a.m.
11.40 p.m.
10.30 p.m.
9.10 p.m.
10.40 p.m.
Midnight.
9.20 p.m.
10.40 p.m.
10.40 p.m.
3.50 a.m.
11.20 p.m.
10.0 p.m.
10.5 p.m.
11.5 p.m.
9.10 p.m.
10.45 p.m.
10.30 p.m.
10.45 p.m.
6.20 a.m.
6.30 a.m.
3.0 a.m.
4.0 a.m.
2.0 a.m.
4.20 a.m.
2.15 a.m.
5.30 a.m.
4.30 a.m.
5.10 a.m.
2.30 a.m.
3.45 a.m.
3.25 a.m.
4.0 a.m.
1.0 a.m.
5.45 a.m.
2.30 a.m.
3.30 a.m.
3.0 a.m.
4.40 a.m.
4.10 a.m.
3.15 a.m.
5.0 a.m.
3.0 a.m. 1.10 a.m. (wakened by child
crying).
5.10 a.m. and again 6.15 a.m.
5.50 a.m. and 6.30 a.m.
11.50 p.m. and 6.45 a.m.
3.0 a.m. and 6.45 a.m.
2.0 a.m. (exactly).
1.40 a.m. and 4.10 a.m.
2.16 a.m.
5.30 a.m.
2.40 a.m. and 6.30 a.m.
Wakened 5 or 6 times by child
unwell.
0.25 a.m. and 2.35 a.m.
0.40 a.m. and 3.5 a.m.
Purposely made 3.0 a.m. and 5.15 a.m.
no arrangement
to waken.
17th no experiments.
5.55 a.m.
4.10 a.m.
0.15 a.m. and 0.56 a.m.
Wakened by children about
6.0 a.m.
0.15 a.m. and 2.30 a.m.
3.40 a.m.
0.5 a.m., 1.15 a.m., and 3.9 a.m.
0.7 a.m., 1.20 a.m., and
4.30 a.m.
3.8 a.m. and 6.15 a.m.
2.30 a.m. and 7.0 a.m.
4.15 a.m. and 6 a.m.
2.30 a.m. (by child) and
3.0 a.m.
10.30 p.m. .. 2.15 a.m. .. 1.8 a.m. and about 6.30 a.m.
10.0 p.m. .. 1.45 a.m. .. 11.50 p.m. and 2 23 a.m.
11.5 p.m. .. 2.45 a.m. .. 2.50 a.m.
322 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1892.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 944. Coincidental Impression.
The following case of an impression coinciding with an event
of national importance, in which the percipient was not personally
interested, seems worth printing in connection with others of a
somewhat similar nature that were published in Phantasms of the
Living, Vol. II., pp. 365-7: —
October Sth, 1892.
I have known and admired Tennyson's In Memoriam for some time, but
it is very seldom that any parts of it have occurred to my memory, except at
Christmas time, when some of the verses most appropriate to the season have
come into my thoughts.
On Wednesday, October 5th, 1892, I was staying at the small country-
village of Broadway, Worcestershire, where I did not see the daily journals
and was quite unaware that Lord Tennyson was ill, and he had not been for
any other reason in my thoughts. I was myself in good health and spirits,
and went to sleep almost immediately on getting into bed. I woke, however,
suddenly, somewhat to my surprise, about 1 a.m. on Thursday morning, with
a strong feeling of general depression and distress, for which I could find
no cause, and my thoughts were turned towards death. Some lines from
In Memoriam, of which I seldom thought, came into my head :—
Last nigh1 (sic) I slept and woke with pain
And almost wished no more to wake
And that my hold on life would break
Before I heard those bells again.
And
Within Vienna's fatal walls
God's finger touched him and he slept.
After a time of vague but quite unique mental discomfort I lit a candle
and found it was about 2 a.m. My thoughts did not turn towards any
special person, and after about another half-hour I went to sleep again, and
woke as usual, after some five or six hours' quiet sleep, with a clear memory
of what had passed but with no discomfort, and no further inclination to
attribute this to any cause that I knew.
About 24 hours afterwards [i.e., Friday morning, October 7th] I learnt
that Lord Tennyson had died about 1.30 a.m. on the morning of Thursday,
October 6th. I had no personal acquaintance with him.—A. A.
The Times of October 7th, 1892, prints the medical bulletin from
which it appears that the hour of Lord Tennyson's death was 1.35
a.m. on Thursday, October 6th. It will be remembered that no
alarm was expressed publicly with regard to his illness till the
previous Monday.
The above narrative was given verbally to Dr. A. T. Myers, on the
Nov., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 323
evening of October 7th, and was written down by him and signed by
Miss A. the next day.
In sending the account, he writes : —
[Miss A.] had heard little or nothing of such things, and told her story
very naively and with no sign of exaggeration. She has always had excellent
health and spirits, and was very genuinely surprised at this queer fit of
extreme depression and discomfort, and thoughts of death and In Mcmoriam,
which were quite unique to her ; and next morning—Thursday—she was
quite well and happy again.
Miss A. did not mention her experience to anyone before hearing
of Lord Tennyson's death.
The two following cases have a feature in common, namely, that
the appearance seems always to have been seen by different people in
the same way at the same place and from the same point of viewt—
suggesting, of course, an optical illusion of some sort, though with
our present information this must remain a matter of conjecture.
It is to be regretted that the records were both made so many years
after the experiences. We shall be glad if any of our readers can
give any information bearing on either case.
G. 225.
From a lady who does not wish to give her name. In answer to
one of Mr. Gurney's " Census" forms she wrote as follows: —
January nth, 1885.
An appearance as of an old man rising from his chair and immediately van
ishing was perceived by me and a friend in a small inn [not far from]
Keswick.1 We saw him only as we opened the door of the room. We made
no inquiries as we were certain the proprietors would not give information
lest their inn should be avoided.
We moved the rest of the furniture, rearranged the curtains and took
great pains to fathom the mystery, but without success.
We did not see him when together or when we tried to see him.
In a subsequent letter, dated March 28th [1885], the same per
cipient says : —
The visual hallucination of which I spoke is the only one of the kind that
ever happened to me.
It occurred in the autumn (September, I think) of the year 1867, at a
little inn or hotel at . I was there two or three days. The figure of the
old man in the armchair was perceptible only by daylight, and only upon
entering the room. He appeared to vacate the chair when the door opened.
I was not aware that my friend, now long dead, saw the figure, until she
was leaving the bedroom we jointly occupied, late at night, for a book she had
1 The exact locality of the inn has been given in confidence.
324 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov.. 1892.
left in the sitting-room (a private one). I then said, " Take care of the old
man in the chair," when rather to my consternation she exclaimed " Have
you also seen it ? " and evinced much agitation. We then agreed to ask
each other alternate questions respecting the appearance, dress, manner,
occupation, and found our impressions entirely coincided. You may imagine
that the book remained in the sitting-room.
The next day we endeavoured to see the figure simultaneously, but failed.
We moved the other articles of furniture, rearranged the curtains, took all
surrounding objects into consideration, but could discover no shadow or
aught else that could produce the appearance. We had neither of us visited
the inn before, nor heard of any tale attached to it. We made no inquiry,
being certain that the proprietors of the place would give no information,
even if they possessed any.
The only other member of our party was a gentleman to whom the appear
ance did not disclose itself. He is, however, very short-sighted.
G. 226.
Taken down by Mr. Gurney from the lips of Mrs. Beaumont, of
1, Crescent-road, S. Norwood Park, about the year 1886, and signed
by her.
1, Crescent-road, S. Norwood Park.
About 1860, 1 was staying with some friends at the Willows, near Kintbury,
near Hungerford. One morning I was sitting alone in the drawing-room ;
the window of the room was passed by anyone going to the hall door. I saw a
little woman in brown pass the window, with her head turned away from it.
After some minutes, not having heard anyone go to let her in, I went into
the hall and met the lady of the house [now dead] there, and I said to her,
" There is a lady at the front door, but I have not heard any of the servants
go to admit her." She said, " Who is it ? " I said, " I don't know, but she
was dressed all in brown." " Oh," she said, " that's only the little brown
lady. We often see her—the children and all of us—but we take no notice."
There was no tradition. The figure used always to appear in this way, pass
ing in front of the drawing-room window ; and however quickly they ran
out nothing was to be seen. There was no place outside the house where a
cat could have hidden, only a straight drive and a little shrubbery then not
two feet high. C. Beaumont.
Mrs. Beaumont has experienced one other—probably telepathic—
hallucination, an account of which was printed in the Journal,
Vol. I., p. 325, and an apparition of her has been seen more than
once by two different percipients. See same No. of the Journal,
pp. 326-8.
It may be instructive to compare with these two cases the follow
ing account of a probably purely subjective hallucination: —
While walking home at about 7 o'clock, one evening, G. D. saw two gentle
men standing together on the opposite pathway. One of them he knew
Nov., 1892.] Journal of Society fen' Psychical Research. 325
well, the other was a stranger. The part of the road at which he had arrived
was clear of trees, flanked by a high wall without gates, and brightly lit by
the moon. G. D. was agreeably surprised to see the friend whom he supposed
to be ill, and was about to cross over to him, but when he reached the centre
of the road the two figures had vanished. He returned to the pathway he
had left, but looking toward the opposite side before resuming his walk,
distinctly saw the two figures exactly as he had seen them at first, and im
puting the supposition that they had vanished to some temporary defect
of vision he stepped into the road a second time. A second time the figures
disappeared, and after assuring himself that no one was there, G. D. returned
to his starting point. Standing there he, for the third time, saw his friend
and his friend's companion as distinctly as before. He waited some moments
but did not speak, and as his friend made no sign he went away. The man
who was known to him died a few days later.
The above account was written by Mr. G. W. Parker, a friend of
Mr. G. D. The latter endorses it as follows: —
" I vouch for the absolute correctness of the foregoing statement."
[Signed in full] G D .
February loth, 1891.
The Rev. C. A. Goodhart, who sent us this case, writes regarding
it: —
" [I am] well acquainted with the scene of [Mr. D.'s] experience. There is
simply a blank wall belonging to workhouse grounds, with the footway run
ning along the base of it. I am told [that] at the time the moon was full and
there were no shadows. An illusion—such as that of the ' drinking foun
tain ' in Carpenter's Mental Physiology—seems hardly possible under the
circumstances.''
The close relationship of some hallucinations with illusions seems
to be brought out by the consideration of cases such as these.
Another interesting illustration of the difficulty of drawing the line
between hallucinations and illusions is to be found in a case printed
in the Journal, Vol. III., p. 252, where an apparition of a woman in
black standing by a hallucinatory white marble cross is seen collec
tively by three persons, but is only visible from a certain point of
view. It was seen out of doors on a fine evening, and remained in
sight for nearly an hour, from about 9 to 10 p.m.—a very unusual
length of time for a hallucination to last. On the other hand, the
percipients tried in vain to discover what could have produced such
an illusion. The appearance does not seem to have been exactly the
same to all of them, but there was enough similarity to suggest that
—if not an illusion strictly speaking—it originated for all of them in
the same points de repere.
326 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1892.
OBITUARY NOTICE.
We regret to have to record the death, on October 26th, from
heart disease, of Frank Septimus Hughes. Mr. Hughes joined the
S.P.R. in 1883, and for some years took an active part in the work
of the Society. He acted for a time as Secretary to a Committee
nominated by the Council for investigating the alleged Physical
Phenomena of Spiritualism, and spent both time and ingenuity in
the endeavour to elucidate the subject.
In November, 1883, Mr. Hughes went, at the request of the
Council, to Wem, in Shropshire, to inquire personally into a series
of disturbances—movements of furniture and crockery, and stone-
throwing—which had excited much interest in the neighbourhood.
His careful report on the results of the inquiry is printed in the
Journal for March, 1884. In the same year he assisted in drafting
a report on "Haunted Houses" (Proceedings, II., pp. 137 et seq.)
and rendered valuable service by his acute analysis and criticism of
the evidence dealt with.
He was successful on more than one occasion as agent in thought-
transference, and records of some of his experiments are given in
Phantasms of the Living, pp. 46-48.
Circumstances prevented Mr. Hughes during the latter years of
his life from co-operating actively with us, but he remained an intel
ligent and sympathetic critic of the work of the Society. [F. P.]
CORRESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Journal, of the Society for Psychical Research.
4, Wellington-terrace, Hailsham, October llth, 1892.
Sir,—Referring to the enclosed cutting on Dr. Luys' recent experiments,
I ask with all diffidence if it is not possible that he may have drawn a wrong
conclusion by endeavouring to prove from certain phenomena a preconceived
theory, instead of drawing his conclusions and basing his theory upon the
phenomena observed ?
Surely, so far as one can judge from this condensed report at least, an
unbiassed student might, in the light of Dr. Berillon's paper read at the
International Congress recently held in London, have come to the conclusion
that there was necessarily no more " exteriorisation " in Dr. Luys' instance
than in the experiments there referred to ; and that if in the case of the
thievishly disposed child mere suggestion (that in case he attempted to steal
a thing—unknown to the operator—paralysis of the arm would ensue) was
sufficient to produce the paralysis in this event, then the pain felt when the
alleged sensitised water or negative were interfered with, might much more
reasonably be attributed to suggestion (perhaps involuntary) on the part of
Nov., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 327
the operator, with whom the subject would naturally be en rapport, even
though he did not know when the contact with the water or negative took
place, unless it had been shown that he was himself unaware that the water
and negative were to be employed at all in the test applied.
The brevity of the report may have rendered it somewhat misleading,
but from it it appears that the water and negative had both been in the presence,
of Dr. Luys and his patient prefatory to the trial and therefore he must have
had in his mind the nature of the test, and may unconsciously have impressed
the subject with the idea in his own mind.
W. Fearne Crowtheb.
The cutting referred to is from the Globe, October 14th, 1892, and is
headed, " Experiments in Hypnotism. Alleged Remarkable Discoveries."
It runs :—
" At the Charite Hospital in Paris, yesterday, the series of experiments
which are being made by Dr. Luys of the ' exteriorisation ' of the human
body, were continued. A Dalziel representative was allowed to be present.
So complete was the exteriorisation of the subject that Dr. Luys was able to
transfer a woman's sensibility into a tumbler of water. The tumbler was
then taken out of sight of the hypnotised person, and the representative
was invited to touch the water ; and as his hands came in contact with it
the woman started as if in pain. This experiment was repeated several
times, the requisite precaution being taken that the hypnotised subject
should not see the contact between the hands and the water. The water
retained the sensibility a considerable time, and if drunk before the sensi
bility is exhausted the patient falls into a swoon. Dr. Luys was also able
to confirm the wonderful discovery made by Colonel Rochas, Administrator
of the Ecole Polytechnique, who found that it was possible to transfer the
sensibility of a hypnotised person to the negative of a photograph of the
subject, and that the subject not only felt, but showed signs of any mark
made on the negative. Supposing, for instance, a scratch was drawn with a
pin across the hand on the negative after it had been charged with sensibility,
the subject would shriek with pain, and a few instants later a mark similar
to that made on the negative would be visible on the hands of the subject.
Dr. Luys tried the experiment yesterday several times with an extraordi
narily sensitive subject, now at the Charite, and each time with considerable
success. The experiments are creating a great deal of interest."
[It seems clear, as our correspondent points out, that many more pre
cautions than are described in the newspaper account would have to be taken
before authorising the conclusion which Dr. Luys is represented to have
drawn from his experiments. The subject may have learnt when the water
was being touched by unconscious indications either from Dr. Luys or from
any one else present who knew it, or even by thought-transference from
the person who touched the water, and may then have been affected as de
scribed by suggestion from his operator. As Mr. Crowther remarks, the
suggestion may have been made unconsciously at the outset of the experi
ments, so that, on this hypothesis, it would not be necessary for Dr. Luys to
be aware at the time whether the water was being touched or not. But we
await an authoritative and detailed report of the experiments before forming
any conclusion.—Ed.]
328 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1892.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
(Continued from the October Journal.)
Further information improving the evidence in any of these cases will be gratefully
received.
B G 23. Visual. The Rev. G. V. Heathcote told us in 1890 that four
or five years ago he often saw from dining-room window the figure of a man
pass across churchyard. Not real person. Other members of the family
saw the figure, too, occasionally. Miss Heathcote confirms ; but says the
figure sometimes turned out to be a tramp.
B G 24. Visual and Tactile. Mr. Geo. Solomon, of Jamaica, informs
us that 12 months after his sister-in-law's death she haunted his bedroom
in the most determined manner—apparently trying to find her surviving
baby. Ghost pushes Mr. Solomon, lifts his leg, blows cold air on him, shakes
door. No confirmation obtained. Date of events, November, 1884. Date
of record, August, 1885.
B G 25. Visual. Haunted house. An account from the Rev. J. J. W.
Rogers of apparition of " old lady in green " seen by him in alleged haunted
room of old residence. Date, "4 or 5 years ago." Recorded February,
1888.
B G 26. Visual. Mr. J. P. Emslie informed us in 1889 that "a short
time ago " his mother saw sitting by his side in bright gaslight a figure which
she recognised as that of her late husband.
B G 27. Visual. The same informant tells us that he had an impression
a certain lane was haunted. Subsequently (July, 1880) in that lane he met
a misty pillar-like form, which vanished mysteriously.
B G 28. The same informant tells us that in August, 1887, he saw an
unaccounted-for figure at " Bogle Burn," Melrose. A figure, like that of a
tradesman, walked or ran rapidly by him, taking no notice, and disappeared
round the corner. No sound of steps was heard.
B G 29. Collective. Visual. 3rd hand. From Miss Long. Six persons
out shooting see woman running towards them with crying baby.
When within a few yards crying ceases, and woman and child disappear.
The party search in vain. Ground " is rough and broken," but affords no
hiding place. No such woman known in the neighbourhood. Miss Long's
informant declines to allow her to reveal names of percipients. Recorded
January, 1 890.
B G 30. Miss A. sends in 1887 an account of occurrences in a haunted
room at B. Noises, footsteps, opening of doors, light blown out, dog terri
fied. No corroboration obtained.
B G 31. Auditory. Miss Geraldine D'Arcy tells us that she and her
maid " heard the Banshee "'outside their bedroom window, between 11 and
12 at night, at the house of a friend. No date given.
B G 32. Visual. The same informant tells us that when staying in the
house of the late Mr. W. S. O'Brien she saw an apparition in her bedroom
at night, which was recognised from her description as grandfather of her
host by old man-servant.
B G 33. Ghostly procession seen by Miss F., Mrs. R., and coachman
on very dark night 30 years ago. Miss F. is sole survivor, and remembers
very vaguely. Recorded April, 1887.
B G 34. Visual. Mrs. Preston informs us that when in the United States
in 1876, staying at the house of friends, she saw by lamplight, when in bed,
the figure of a lady. Mrs. P. examined the figure critically as it moved
slowly about the room. It disappeared suddenly. Next day Mrs. P. described
the figure to her host, when he at once recognised his first wife, whom nar
rator never saw. Recorded August, 1889.
No. XCV.—Vol. V. December, i892.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. page
Now Members and Associates 829
Meeting of the Council 880
The Haunted House at Willington 88i
A French Review of " Hallucinations Telepathiques " 842
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
Blakelock, Rev. R., M.A., Horbury Bridge Vicarage, Wakefield.
Damania, Surgeon-Major P. J., National Liberal Club, London, S.W.
ASSOCIATES.
Fielding, Mrs. J. M., 25, Cardigan-road, Richmond, near London.
Fort, Charles Leyland, B.A., Alderbury House, Salisbury.
Gardner, The Lady Winifred, 48, Charles-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Hall, Charles S., Cambridge House, Westgate Without, Canterbury.
Jackson, Miss E. R., Grammar School for Girls, Thetford.
Librarian of the Public Library, Adelaide, South Australia.
Librarian of the Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Ogilvie, G. M., 10, Selborne-road, Brighton.
Pickkring, James R., A.I.E.E., 126, Holmesdale-rd., South Norwood, S.E.
Reade, Herbert V., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ASSOCIATES.
Blodgett, Mrs., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass., U.S.A.
Breed, Stephen A., 17, St. James's-avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Browne, Mrs. L. Andrews, 131, Sargent-street, Newton, Mass., U.S.A.
Bundy, Mrs., M.E., 92, La Salle-street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Carpenter, Franklin R., M. A., Ph.D., Rapid City, So. Dakota, U.S.A.
Lombardi, C., 1314, Rusk-avenue, Houston, Texas, U.S.A.
Parsons, A. J., 1818, N. Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Wyllys, Miss R, 18, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
330 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1892.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council was held on December 2nd. The chair
was taken at the opening by Professor Barrett, and subsequently by
the President. There were also present:—Col. Hartley, Dr. A. T.
Myers, Mr. W. Crookes, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. F. Podmore, and
Mr. R. Pearsall Smith.
Two new Members and ten new Associates were elected. Two
of the latter it will be noticed represent two Public Libraries in the
Australian Colonies, to whom specimen copies of the Proceedings were
sent some time since. The election of eight new Associates of the
American Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
At their request it was agreed that the names of Mr. Edmund
Selous and of Miss A. Goodrich-Freer should at the end of the present
year be transferred from the list of Members to that of Associates.
The resignations of one Member and nine Associates, who for
various reasons desired to terminate their connection with the Society
at the end of the year, were accepted. In no case, however, was any
want of sympathy with or interest in the work of the Society expressed.
It was also agreed to strike off the list the names of seven other
Members and Associates with whom all communication had ceased
and whose addresses were not known.
Thanks were awarded to the donors for some presents to the Library,
especially to Dr. J. Grossmann for a parcel of the first number of his
Zeitschrift fur Hypnotismus for distribution among members of the
Society. Some of these are still on hand and may be had on applica
tion to the Assistant Secretary.
The names of the Members of Council who retire by rotation at
the end of the year were read over. They are :—Professor Macalister,
M.D., F.R.S., Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Professor J. J.
Thomson, F.R.S., and Mr. J. Venn, F.R.S. The Assistant Secretary
was desired to send out the usual notices in regard to the Annual
Business Meeting on the 27th of January next, according to the Rules.
It was resolved that General Meetings be arranged as follows,
subsequent to that already fixed for January 27th :—Friday, March
10th, 8.30 p.m. ; Friday, April 21st, 4 p.m. ; and Friday, June 2nd,
8.30. p.m.
Various other matters of business having been attended to, it was
agreed that the next meeting of the Council should be at the close of
the Annual Business Meeting on January 27th, 1893, unless it was
found advisable to summon one earlier.
[The Report of the General Meeting on December 2nd will appear
in the Journal for January.]
Dec, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 331
THE HAUNTED HOUSE AT WILLINGTON
[We think that the following fuller and more authentic account
than has ever yet been published of this well-known " haunted house "
will be of interest to our readers. We are indebted for it to Mr.
Edmund Procter, son of Mr. Joseph Procter, who occupied the house
at the time the disturbances occurred. It is a very complete and
typical case of what is commonly called " haunting," consisting of
unexplained noises, generally heard by all within earshot, and con
tinued at intervals through a series of years, in the course of which
various visual phantasms were seen by differnt people.—Ed.]
Mr. Joseph Procter's Diary.
The " Haunted House at Willington " has been a familiar theme
on Tyneside for half a century, and the general public have been made
acquainted with it in William Howitt's Visits to Remarkable Places,
Catherine Crowe's Night Side of Nature, The Local Historian's Table
Book, Stead's Ghost Stories, and other publications. I was myself
born in this " haunted house," and have vivid recollections of many sin
gular occurrences. As my parents, however, ceased to reside there
when I was but a child of seven, any evidence of my own can be but
of trifling value. On my father's death in 1875, a diary that he had
kept almost from the outset of the disturbances, and during many
years of their occurrence, was found among his papers. The publica
tion of this diary has been delayed for two reasons : first, my mother's
objection to their publicity during her lifetime : secondly, because the
manuscript breaks off suddenly, and I have long hoped, but in vain,
to find the continuation and conclusion. To such readers as were not
personally acquainted with the writer of this diary I may briefly state
that he was a member of the Society of Friends, belonging to a family
which had been attached members of that body from its very founda
tion. During many years he was an "overseer" or "elder," and was
frequently appointed to offices of trust in church matters. Like many
other Quakers, he took an active interest in the Peace Society, the
Anti-Slavery Society, and other philanthropic organisations. He was
also among the earliest teetotallers in the north of England.
His reading was fairly extensive, the Quarterly and Edinburgh being
sandwiched with George Fox's Journal and the old Examiner, and
Ebenezer Elliot taken alternately with some French author or the
British Friend. I mention these details solely to place outsiders in a
position to judge of the character and the reliability of the writer of
the diary, and will only add my own testimony that a man with a
332 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. {Dec, 1892.
more delicate sense of what it means to speak the truth I have yet to
meet.
It only remains to add that throughout the narrative " J. P."
stands for my father himself, and " E. P." for my mother, and that
the paragraphs between brackets are my own additions. The earliest
statement I can find is the following, in his own handwriting :—
Particulars relating to some unaccountable noises heard in the house of
J. and E. Procter, Wellington Mill, which began about three months prior
to the present time, viz., 1 mo. 28th, 1835, still continuing, and for which no
adequate natural cause has hitherto been discovered.
About six weeks ago the nursemaid first told her mistress of the state of
dread and alarm she was kept in, in consequence of noises she had heard for
about two months, occurring more particularly nearly every evening when
left alone to watch the child [my eldest brother, then about two years old] to
sleep in the nursery, a room on the second floor ; she declared she distinctly
heard a dull heavy tread on the boarded floor of the unoccupied room above,
commonly pacing backwards and forwards, and, on coming over the window,
giving the floor such a shake as to cause the window of the nursery to rattle
violently in its frame. This disturbance generally lasted ten minutes
at a time, and though she did not heed it at first, yet she was now persuaded
it was supernatural, and " it quite overset her." The latter was indeed
evident from the agitation she manifested.
The kitchen girl said that the nursemaid had called her upstairs some
times when frightened in this manner, aud that she had found her trem
bling much and very pale. On examining her further in reference to this
improbable tale, she did not vary in her statement, but on searching the
rooms above and finding nothing to cause such results, but little credit was
attached to the story.
Before many days had elapsed, however, every member of the family had
witnessed precisely what the girl described, and from that time to the
present, nearly every day, and sometimes several times in the day, the same
has been heard by one or more of the inmates, varying unimportantly in the
nature of the sound. A few particular instances may here be selected, in
which imagination or fear could have no influence.
On sixth day, 1st month 23rd, 1835, my wife had in the forenoon
requested one of the servants to sweep out the disturbed room in the course
of the day, and being herself in the nursery [the room below] after dinner,
heard a noise in the room like a person stirring about, which she took for
granted was the maid cleaning out the chamber, when, to her surprise, she
afterwards found that neither of the girls had been upstairs at all. The next
day one of the maids, being in the nursery, supposed, from the noise she
heard, that the other was lighting the fire in the room above, as had been
desired, which proved a similar mistake to that on the preceding day. It
may be remarked that the nursemaid first mentioned had left, and another
engaged, from whom the affair was carefully concealed. A day or two after
her arrival the noise was observed by her fellow servant whilst they were
together in the nursery, but she apparently did not observe it herself, from
Dec., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 333
her companion talking and using the rocking-chair. Later, however, the
same evening it began suddenly when she was present, and she, some
what alarmed, inquired who or what was in the room above.
On First day, the 25th, being kept at home by indisposition, my wife was
in the nursery about eleven o'clock in the forenoon, and heard on the floor
above, about the centre of the room, a step as of a man with a strong shoe or
boot going towards the window and returning. The same day, when we were
at dinner, the maid, being with the child in the nursery, heard the same
heavy tread for about five minutes ; she came into the sitting-room to
satisfy herself that her master was there, thinking it must have been he who
was upstairs. The following day the dull sound was resumed, and up to this
day the boots have not done duty again. It may be noted that frequently
the room has been examined immediately after the occurrence of the noise ;
it has been sat in, in one instance slept in all night, and in every case
nothing has been elicited. Several of our friends who have waited to hear
the invisible disturber have all, with one exception, been disappointed.
My brother, John Richardson Procter,* remained in the room below
some time after the usual period of operation, fruitlessly, but within ten
minutes of his departure the nurse was so terrified by the loudness of its
onset that she ran downstairs with the child half asleep in her arms. My
.cousin, Mary Unthank, stayed two nights and was much in the room without
being gratified. All the persons who have heard, and six have been so far
privileged, are confident that the noise is within the room on the third floor,
as the precise part of the floor above on which the impression is made is
clearly distinguishable through the ceiling below, and the weight apparently
laid on, shaking violently the window in the room below, when no other
window in the house is affected, and during a dead calm, is of itself a proof
of this.
It seems impossible there can be any trick in the case ; there is a garret
above, and the roof is inaccessible from without ; the house stands alone,
and during most of the time the window was built up with lath and plaster,
whilst the only other communication with the outside, by the chimney, was
closed by a fireboard which was so covered over with soot as to prove that
not a pebble or a mouse had passed. The room is devoid of furniture, and
for some time the door was nailed up. Not a rat has been seen in the house
for years, nor at any time anything heard like a scratch or squeak, or
running between the floor and ceiling ; nor, it is conceived, could a hundred
rats so shake the floor by their weight as to cause the window below to
rattle as it does.
The noise has been heard at every hour of the day, though oftenest in
the evening, rarely in the night ; has no connection with weather nor with
the going of the mill ; [the mill was contiguous, but there was a road
between it and the house] in short, it is difficult to imagine a natural
cause having a shadow of pretension to belief.
Those who deem all intrusion from the world of spirits impossible in the
present constitution of things will feel assured that a natural solution of
* A portrait and biographical notice of this brother will be found in Quaker
Records, by Mrs. A. O. Boyce.
*
334 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1892.
the difficulty will still be obtained on further investigation ; whilst those who-
believe with the poet " that millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
unseen," and that, even in modern times, amidst a thousand creations of
fancy, fear, fraud, or superstition, there still remain some well-attested
instances iu which good or evil spirits have manifested their presence by
sensible tokens, will probably deem it possible that this may be referred to
the latter class—especially when they learn that several circumstance*
tending to corroborate such a view are withheld from this narrative.
Whether the " several circumstances withheld " are disclosed in
the written narratives which follow I am unable to say. I find the
following consecutive
Additional particulars relating to unaccountable noises, &c., heard at
Willington Mill, containing the most remarkable from first month 25th, tot
the present time, second month 18th, 1835.
On First day night, the 31st of first month, soon after retiring to bed,
before going to sleep, my wife and I both heard ten or twelve obtuse
deadened beats as of a mallet on a block of wood, apparently within two feet
of the bed curtain, on one side by the crib in which the child was laid. The
next night, before undressing, I had hushed the child asleep in his crib, and
while leaning over it with one hand laid upon it and listening to some indis
tinct sounds overhead, which had juat ceased, I heard a tap on the cradle
leg as with a piece of steel, and distinctly felt the vibration of the wood in
my hand from the blow. This might be a sudden crack not unfrequent
when wood is drying in, but it sounded like a knock on the outside. Since
this time the walking in the empty room has not been heard oftener than
twice or thrice, of which this afternoon was the last time.
On the same evening I heard that Thomas Mann, the foreman of the
mill—a man of strict integrity and veracity, who has been two years in
Unthank and Procter's employ—had heard something remarkable, and on
questioning him elicited the following statement. It may be premised that
U. and P. have a wooden cistern on iron wheels to bring water for
their horses, which stands in the mill yard. When in motion, drawn by
a horse to be filled, it makes a very peculiar noise which may be heard a con
siderable distance, especially when the wheels want greasing, and by any
person accustomed to it the noise of its going could not be mistaken for that
of any other vehicle. The mill was going all night, and T. M.'s place
was to attend the engine till 2 a.m. Going out to fill the barrow with
coals about one o'clock, he heard this machine, as he thought, going along
the yard, which did not at the moment strike him as out of the usual course ;
but remembering the hour, the apprehension that it was being stolen flashed
on his mind ; it was creaking excessively, from want of oil as might be sup
posed, and was then drawing near the yard gates, towards which he pursued
after it, when, to his astonishment, he found it had never stirred from its
place near where he at first was, and looking round everywhere all was still
and not a creature to be found. He afterwards searched round the premises
with a lantern but descried nothing. He was much puzzled, but it was not
till the next day that he felt himself compelled to attribute the phenomenon
to a supernatural cause.
Dec, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 335
More than once I have, on coming through the garden at night, heard a
sound like someone stepping down the gravel walk and have not been able
to discover anyone. This step on the gravel has been heard by one or two
others, but nothing seen.
On First day, 2 mo., 15th [1835], my wife and I were informed by our
cousin Unthanks that they understood that the house, and that room
in particular in which the noises now occurred, was said to be haunted
before they entered it in 1806, but that nothing that they knew of had been
heard during their occupancy of 25 years.
On the same page as the above, and in my father's handwriting, is
the following memorandum below the above recital ; there is a line
drawn through them, however, whether by myself I am unable to say,
and the sentence is apparently unfinished :—
An infirm old woman, the mother-in-law of It. Oxon, the builder of the
premises, lived and died in the house, and after her death the haunting was
attributed
I have heard my father speak of this circumstance, but the
evidence appeared to be of a slight and hearsay character.
I find the following occurrence described on a separate sheet of
paper, but believe, although it is not dated, that this is the correct
sequence of the manuscript. I have myself heard all the particulars
from the lips of all the parties concerned, which completely agreed with
this account in my father's handwriting.
For about two months previously there had rarely been 24 hours
without indications by noises, &c., not in any other way accountable,
of the presence of the ghostly visitant, to some or all of the inmates. A
few days previously a respectable neighbour had seen a transparent white
female figure in a window in the second storey of the house. On the 13th of
last month (November), early in the evening, two of the children in the
house, one aged about 8, the other under two years, both saw, unknown
to each other, an object which could not be real, and which went into the
room where the apparition was afterwards seen, and disappeared there. A
near connection of the family on a visit [my mother's sister], but for whom,
for obvious reasons, a lodging was obtained at the house of Thomas Mann
(the foreman of the flour mill adjoining, and much respected by his
employers), went out as usual to sleep about 9.30 p.m. Soon after going to
her bedroom T. M.'s wife went out of the house for some coals, and
was struck with a figure in the window previously referred to [nothing being
between the two houses but a kitchen garden and a road] ; she called her
husband, who saw the same figure passing backwards and forwards and then
standing still in the window. It was very luminous and likewise transparent,
and had the appearance of a priest in a white surplice. T. M. then
called out the relative of the family and his own daughter. When they came
the head was nearly gone and the brightness somewhat abated, but it was
fully ten minutes before it quite disappeared by fading gradually down
wards. Both when standing and moving it was about 3 feet from the
floor of the room. T. M. went down close under the window, and
336 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec., 1892.
also went to inform the inmates of the circumstance, but finding they had
locked-up for the night did not accomplish it. It was a dark night, without
a moon, and there was not a ray of light, nor any person anywhere near the
house. The window blind was close down, and the figure seemed to come
through both it and the glass, as had the brightness been all inside of the
glass the framing of the window would have intervened, which was not
visible. In walking the figure seemed to enter the wall on each side. The
occupier of the house [my father] slept in that room, and must have gone in
shortly after the disappearance of the apparition.
[My aunt, the "near connection" referred to above, Mrs. Christiana
Wright, of Mansfield, who is still living, has read the manuscript of this
incident this year (1892). She has corrected it in two or three unimportant
details, but otherwise confirms it as strictly according to her own
observation.]
The following account of my father's has no year stated, but it
appears to be about this time. J. C. is my mother's sister, Jane Carr,
of Carlisle.
On the 16th of 12th mo., a little before twelve o'clock at night,
J. C. and her bedfellow were disturbed by a noise similar to the winding
up of a clock, apparently on the stairs where the clock stands, which con
tinued for the space of ten minutes. When that ceased footsteps were
heard in the room above, which is unoccupied, for perhaps a quarter of an
hour ; whilst this was going on the bed was felt to shake, and J. C.
distinctly heard the sound like a sack falling on the floor above. On
the 3rd of 1st month, about 12 o'clock at night, J. C. being quite
awake, was disturbed by a noise similar to a person knocking quickly and
strongly five times on a piece of board in the room ; when that ceased she
distinctly heard the sound of a footstep close by the side of her bed. About
the beginning of the year J. P. was awoke by a sound like a bullet lodged
in the floor above or in the wall of his bedroom, and looked at his watch to
ascertain the time ; he found next morning that his wife in the next room
was awoke by the same sound.
About the 21st inst. E. P. and nurse Pollard both felt themselves raised
up and let down three times. [My mother has described this experience to
me ; she said the bed was lifted up as if a man were underneath pushing it
up with his back. She did not speak to nurse Pollard, nor the nurse to her,
each thinking the other was asleep ; this not being disclosed until breakfast
time.] On the 15th, about 8 p.m., J. P., jun., who had been in bed about
half an hour, called on someone to come to him and begged for a light ; he
said that something under the crib raised him up very quickly many times,
and wished to know what it could be. On the 11th of 1st mo., whilst
the servants were at dinner, E. P. was lying on the sofa in her lodging-
room when she felt the floor to vibrate as from a heavy foot in an adjoining
room ; in the writing-room underneath J. C. at the same time heard the
sound of a person walking backwards and forwards in the room above.
Soon after this E. P. heard the sound of a closet door in the room above
shutting three times, after which footsteps came into the middle of the room
Dec, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 337
and then all was silent. E. P. feels assured there was nobody upstairs at
the time. On the 17th, at 7 p.m., the two elder children and two nurse
maids were in the nursery when a loud clattering or jingling was heard in
the room ; it sounded from the closet ; the girls were very much terrified,
as was also Jane P., who is four years and a half old. Little Joseph, per
ceiving his sister affrighted, endeavoured to calm her by saying, "Never
mind, Jane; God will take care of thee." Some weeks before this little
Joseph said in the morning to his aunt, Jane Carr, who was sleeping with
him, that he was a long time in getting to sleep the night before from some
people walking very fast in the room above ; he wondered who it could be.
This was an unoccupied room. One night, whilst sleeping in a crib in his
parents' room, he awoke his father to say that somebody had stepped close to
his bed. One night about this time J. P. heard, early in the morning, a
noise as of wood moving from the middle to one side of the boarded floor of
the empty room above ; after which he heard a loud beating in the mill
yard. Another night he heard two very peculiar sounds as of whistling or
whizzing. [I have sometimes heard my father imitate this peculiar and
horrid sound.] About 11 o'clock on the night of the 23rd, J. C. and
her little bedfellow heard a succession of thumps or blows in the empty
room above which continued for the space of ten minutes. A little after one
o'clock the same night J. P. was awakened by a single beat or blow in the
room above, after which one of the chairs in his own room seemed shifted.
On the night of the 26th J. P. heard the sound of footsteps in the attic,
and afterwards as of setting things down in the room above, from about
11.30 p.m. to 2 a.m. A little after eleven he had heard several prolonged
and peculiar whistles which were also heard by the nurse in another room ;
they seemed to come from the landing ; she had described it without know
ing that J. P. had heard it. Joseph was shaken in his crib early the same
night.
On the 27th no one slept in the third storey ; about eleven o'clock Jane
C. and the nursemaid heard in the room above the sound of some person
with strong shoes sometimes walking, sometimes running backwards and
forwards, moving chairs and clashing down box lids, aud sometimes thump
ing as with a fist. These sounds also moved on to the stair-head. About
midnight J. C. felt the bed raised up under one side as if to turn her over,
giving two lifts. Nurse Pollard in another room on the same floor heard a
noise which roused her as she was going to sleep ; something then pressed
against the high part of the curtain and came down on to her arm, which was
weighed down with the same force ; in great terror she called out, " Lord,
have mercy upon me ! " Nothing further occurred to her that night, nor
was the maid who slept with her aroused.
2nd month, 3rd. On nearly every day or night since the last entry
more or less has been heard that could be referred to no other than the same
cause ; amongst them the following may be noted : Joseph and Henry have
been several times disturbed in their cribs during the evening ; once they
heard a loud shriek which seemed to come from near the foot of the bed.
On going up Joseph was found trembling and perspiring from the fright.
One evening J. P. heard a very peculiar moan or cry in the same room ; also
338 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1892.
J. and E. P. and Jane C. heard footsteps and noises which ceased on running
upstairs to prevent the children being frightened. Another time Joseph
said his bed moved backwards and forwards ; also a voice by the foot of the
bed said, " Chuck " twice, and then made a noise like a child sucking. He
describes other voices ; he is very inquisitive as to the origin of these noises,
and says he never heard or felt anything like it whilst we lived at Shields.
It may be proper to mention that neither he nor any of the children have
any idea of anything supernatural. Jane sleeps in another room ; she told
her mother that she felt the bed go up and down, and other things of that
kind, not having heard of her brother Joseph, or any of us, having felt any
thing of the same kind.
About the 30th J. and B. P. heard loud thumps in the room above, also
footsteps in the night, when they knew no one was upstairs, as the cook
was at that time sleeping for company with the nurses on the second floor.
A day or two later, about six in the evening, whilst the servants were at tea
in the kitchen, E. P. and J. C, whilst in the nursery on the second floor,
heard what seemed to be heavy pieces of wood jarring on the floor above.
2nd mo., 1st. About 11 p.m. some little time after all had gone to
bed, the sound of chairs, &c., being moved about on the kitchen floor was
heard.
2nd mo., 4th. Jane C. had been poorly, and was awake about
4.30 a.m., as well as her companion, when they heard footsteps descending
from the upper storey which passed their door and went down into the
kitchen ; they thought it was the cook and wondered at her being so early.
They then heard the sound of the kitchen door opening and then of the
kitchen window being thrown up and the shutters opened with more than
usual noise. About seven o'clock they were surprised by the cook calling
at their room for a light ; having been up early to do washing the previous
morning she had this time overslept herself. She had clearly not yet been
downstairs.
In the afternoon of the same day Jon. D. Carr [my mother's brother of
Carlisle] came to the house and stayed all night, sleeping alone on the
second storey. Soon after going to bed he heard noises in the room above,
as of a piece of wood or a balance rapidly striking each end on the floor ;
afterwards many beats as with a mallet, some very loud ; also like a person
stamping in a passion. He also heard a peculiar whistle, which he imitated
so as exactly to resemble what J. P. heard some time before ; he further
heard a noise on the stairs and landing, and for some time felt his bed to
vibrate very much ; he put his hand down to the stock and felt it shaking.
This suddenly ceased. He was quite awake and collected, indeed did not
sleep till two o'clock though unusually disposed to it. He said in the morn
ing he would not live in the house for any money.
The account he gave to Jonathan Carr [his father] induced the latter to
come over from Carlisle next morning to see if he could assist with his
advice under such disagreeable and dangerous disturbances.
[I can find no other allusion to my grandfather's visit among my father's
papers.]
i>ec, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 339
On 2nd mo., 5th, between 11 and 12 at night, Jane C. heard a thump
oon the landing near the bedroom door, upon which she awoke her com
panion, Mary Young. [This was the cook whom my aunt had to
sleep with her, not daring to sleep alone in such a house ; she was a most
respectable and intelligent woman whom I well remember ; she was eight
years in my mother's service when she married the principal tradesman in
the village.] Mary Young heard the slot in the door apparently slide back,
the handle to turn and the door to open. A rushlight was burning on the
dressing-table, but the bed was an old four-poster, and the curtains being
drawn, nothing could be seen. A step then went to the rushlight, and
appeared by the sound to snuff it and then lay down the snuffers. In the
act of snuffing the light was transiently obscured, as when that act is
customarily performed. Jane C. then felt it raise up the clothes over her
twice ; then they both heard something rustle the curtains as it went round
the bed ; on getting to Mary Young's side she distinctly saw a dark shadow
on the curtain. On getting to the bed-board where Jane C. lay a loud thump
as with a fist was heard on it ; something was then felt to press on the
counterpane on M. Young's side of the bed, the bed curtain being pushed
in but nothing more seen. Whatever the visitor might be was then heard
to go out, seeming to leave the door open. In the morning they found the
door still bolted as it was left when they went to bed. In this occurrence
Jane C. heard and felt everything described, but having her head under the
bedclothes could not see the shadow as her companion did. [I have on three
or four occasions heard a graphic account of this night of horror both from
my aunt Jane Carr in later life, and from Mary Young some years after her
marriage. The description they both gave exactly agreed with the above
narrative from my father's pen except that one or both of them stated that
a few minutes after the dreadful unknown visitor left the room they arose,
found the door locked as when they came to bed, and searched the room in
every way. This is the only discrepancy I notice. One would naturally
expect that my aunt would refuse to stay longer in the house after such an
experience, but such was not the case ; she was, as I remember her to be,
a woman of strong nerve, of very cheerful temper, and not easily disturbed.
She died on board the steamer Prussian Eagle, in Plymouth Sound, in
1859.]
On the 7th J. C. heard the noise of a box trailed over the floor above the
nursery when she was certain no one was upstairs, the servants being at
dinner in the kitchen and the rest of the family in the parlour downstairs.
On the previous night there had been unaccountable thumpings and bed-
shakings but nothing of special note.
From 2nd mo., 6th to the 20th, nothing particular has been heard ; but
Jane, about 4£ years old, told her parents that when sleeping with her aunt
she one night saw by the washstand at the foot of the bed where the curtains
were open, a queer looking head, she thought of an old woman ; she saw her
hands with two fingers of each hand extended and touching each other ; she
had something down the sides of her face and passed across the lower part of
it. She saw it plainly though it was darkish in the room. She was afraid
and put her head under the clothes and by-and-bye fell asleep. On the 17th,
340 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1892.
about dusk, she described having seen a head on the landing as she wast
coming downstairs, and appeared to be very much terrified.
About the 25th, pretty late at night, whilst J. P. was asleep, E. P. felt a
heavy pressure which unnerved her very much ; it seemed to take her breath
away and she felt quite sick after it, but did not tell J. P. of it until the
morning. Some night previous E. P. was awoke by feeling a pressure on th&
face over the eye, of icy coldness ; it was suddenly laid on with a good deal
of force and as suddenly withdrawn. [I have heard my mother describe thist
on different occasions 20 or 30 years after it occurred ; her face always had a
pained expression when she related this experience, which I think was more
distressing to her than anything she underwent in the house.]
3rd mo., 3rd. About 5 a.m. E. P. was awake when several beats were
felt on one side of the room, which awoke J. P. ; a vibration was felt in the
room, the bed shook considerably and the curtain rings rattled. The knockst
were repeated on the floor above.
On the night of the 5th E. P. heard what appeared to be a heavy box
turned over twice in the room above where no one was sleeping and the
entire household being asleep except herself, and everything still.
[I omit several memoranda about this time as to the children and servants
hearing voices and sounds of various descriptions.]
3rd mo., 13th, 1840. Since the last entry Joseph has heard the sound
of a thick stick being broken in his room ; of a stepping backwards and
forwards ; of his name being called, &c. About the same date J. and E. P.
heard unaccountable drummings and vibrations ; also the sound of someone
stirring in the closet.
On the 21st J. and E. P. heard a handbell rung upstairs ; they were
quite satisfied at the time that no one was there. On the 28th heavy thumps
in the middle of the night, and after breakfast the next morning E. P. heard
a handbell rung upstairs when she was quite certain everyone was down
stairs. J. and E. P. are sure it is no actual bell in the house that is rung, the
tone being altogether different. Joseph has been disturbed nearly every
night lately ; he says when there is nobody upstairs the voices are loud; he-
is now afraid of going into his room in the daytime. The words he reports
as being uttered, such as " Never mind "—" Come and get," seem to have no-
particular application. To-night he has heard footsteps twice, and felt a
bat on his pillow. At the time two of the servants were at a temperance
meeting, the other in the kitchen. [The inference that my brother was
simply dreaming, or else shamming, so as to get some one to come beside
him, will no doubt readily occur to some minds. I can only say that a more
truthful boy, or one more transparently honest I do not think ever breathed.
He was six years of age at this time, and died eleven years afterwards from
an accidental blow on the head at a boarding school.]
On the 30th Henry (3 years old) was awakened by his brother Joseph
ringing the bell at his bedside, saying his bed was shaking, and that het
heard someone talking in the room ; Henry being asked if he did not think
it was Joseph that spoke, said No, and showed where the sound came from \.
they both heard it again about 10 minutes later on.
4 mo., 6th. During the last nine days J. and E. P. have often hearcL
Dec., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 341
something stirring in the night, and knocks in the servants' room above ;
these they afterwards found the girls had not heard, being very sound
sleepers.
4 mo., 4th.—This evening E. P. plainly heard someone or something
stirring and rustling about in a room she knew no one was in, and there and
then found that no one was in it.
6th.—During last night there seemed to be but little quiet in the house
till daylight ; noises as of a shoe dragged over the boards just outside the
door, and as though the servants had got up and were going about ; knocks
loud, and knocks gentle, indeed all sorts of knocks.
It may be well to mention here that the Newcastle and North
Shields Eailway, which passes about a quarter of a mile from the house,,
was opened on June 19th, 1840.
A gap occurs in the diary here, but the following letter written by
my father to my mother on July 4th, 1840, illustrates a striking,
incident of which full particulars are given by William Howitt and
Mrs. Crowe. The hero, Dr. Drury, a practitioner then well known in
Sunderland, had obtained leave to sit up all night on the stairs with a
friend, during the absence of the family except my father and onet
servant. He had wished to bring a loaded musket and a dog with him -r
my father objected to firearms, but consented to the dog.^
Willington. Seventh day, evening.
Dear Elizabeth, . . . Last night Dr. Drury came with T. Hudson, a
shopman of Joseph Ogilvie, chemist, and no dog. After a long chat they sat
on the high landing ; I went to my own bed ; Bell in the Camp room. About
one o'clock I heard a most horrid shriek from E. D., slipped on my trousers
and went up. He had then swooned, but come to himself again in a state
of extreme nervous excitement, and accompanied with much coldness and
faintness. He had seen the G. ; had been struck speechless as it advanced
from the closet in the room over the drawing-room to the landing, and then
leapt up with an awful shriek and fainted. The other young man had his
head laid against the easy-chair and was dozing, and as the G. made no noise
in coming up he did not awake till the yell of his friend called him to his help.
I called up Bell to make on the fires, get coffee, &c., but he continued in
a shocking state of tremour for some hours, though not irrational. He had
a ghastly look and started at the smallest sound—could not bear to see any
thing white ; he had not been in the least sleepy, and was not at all fright
ened till the moment when the G. met his gaze. They had both previously
heard several noises, but all had been quiet for about a quarter of an hour,
and E. D. was thinking of getting his companiou to go to bed, not expecting
anything more that night. . . . E. D. has got a shock he will not soon
cast off. I go to Shields to-night and I question I come back at present.
The diary resumes as follows :—
5 mo., 17th, 1841.—Since the latter end of 12 mo., 1840, we have been
entirely free from those very singular disturbances which had been
1 For Dr. Drury's own account of this incident, see Appendix, pp. 349.
342 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Deo., 1892.
occurring with some intermissions for about 14 months before ; and as
we now appear to be threatened with a renewal of them, I here make
some memoranda of the circumstances. Our servants for some time have
shown no symptoms of timidity, and seemed to have no apprehension of any
recurrence of former visitations. E. P. has not been well lately, and has
thought she observed something in the demeanour of the servants indicative
of fear within a day or two past ; on questioning them this afternoon they
said the ghost had come back, but they wished to keep it from her if possible,
as she was poorly. On the 29th, about 9 p.m., J. P., hearing Joseph call,
and going upstairs, heard a rustling, like a female running out of the room,
but saw no one and was satisfied no one was there. Joseph said his name
had been called several times from near the foot of the bed in a voice like
his own. That night J. and E. P. heard a drumming and tapping in
different parts of their room ; at one momeut it seemed to be something
heavy falling on the floor of the room above, then on the floor of the room
adjoining, where it awoke the youngest child, and then to pounce down in
the room below on the ground floor. [I have frequently heard my father
describe this peculiar case.]
6 mo., 1st.—The two maids, Davis and E. Mann, report they were
unable to sleep before 2 a.m. from constant noises, particularly the
apparent treading of bare feet backwards and forwards at the foot of their
bed, the noise several times awaking the youngest child ; sometimes the
tread seemed to pass out on to the landing and run up and down stairs.
The nursery door was of course bolted.
7th day, 11 mo., 13th, 1841.—About 4.30 p.m. Joseph, now eight
years old, was in the nursery with his brothers and sisters ; he had
seated himself on the top of a chest of drawers and was making a pretended
speech to them, when he suddenly jumped down, and the nursery door being
ajar, J. P., who was in his own bedroom adjoining, heard him exclaim there.
was a monkey, and that it had pulled his leg by his shoe-strap. J. P. did
not himself see the monkey, but coming out of his room saw the children
peering under the curtains of the bed in the Blue-room where, they alleged,
the animal had disappeared. Joseph afterwards stated that the monkey had
given a sharp pull at his shoe-strap, and had tickled his foot ; he did not
suppose any other but it was a real monkey. Edmund, who is under two
years old, was frightened a short time before by what he called a " funny
cat," and showed a good deal of timidity the rest of the evening, looking
under chairs, &c., lest it should be lurking there, and it is to be noted that
he has no fear of a cat.
[Now it so happens that this monkey is the first incident in the lugubri
ous hanntings, or whatever they may be termed, of which I have any recol
lection. I suppose it was, or might easily be, the first monkey I had ever
seen, which may explain my memory being so impressed that I have not
forgotten it. A monkey, and upstairs in the nursery, that is the business.
My parents have told me that no monkey was known to be owned in the
neighbourhood, and that after diligent inquiry no organ-man or hurdy-gurdy
boy, either with or without a monkey, had been seen anywhere about the
jplace or neighbourhood, either on that day or for a length of time. Although
Dec, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 343
I freely admit the evidence of an infant barely two years old is of very small
import, yet I may say I have an absolutely distinct recollection of that
monkey, and of running to see where it went to as it hopped out of
the room and into the adjoining Blue-room. We saw it go under the
bed in that room, but it could not be traced or found anywhere after
wards. We hunted and ferretted about that room, and every coiner of
the house, but no monkey, or any trace of one, was more to be found. I
don't know what to make of such a visitation, and have no explanation to
offer ; but that it was a monkey, that it disappeared under the bed in the
Blue-room that Saturday afternoon, and was never seen or heard of again—
of this, not merely from my own childish recollection, but from the repeated
confirmation of my brothers and sisters in after life, I am perfectly certain.
I am merely recording facts as simply as I can ; readers may smile or mock
as seemeth good unto them—I cannot alter what has taken place to suit
either them or anyone else.]
On the 26th of 10th mo., 1841, about 9 a.m., Joseph and Henry were
playing at the foot of the stairs ; they both saw a white face looking down
upon them over the stair rails leading to the garret. Joseph called for
his aunt, Christiana Carr, to come and see it, but just as she was coming he
saw it hop away. Henry heard it give a great jump, but Joseph, being
very dull of hearing, did not. They both agreed in the description of what
they saw.
On First day evening, 19th of 12th, 1841, about 8 o'clock, E. P. and her
sister, Christiana Carr, were in the nursery with the infant, and heard a
heavy step coming up the stairs. They at first thought it might be J. P.,
but recollected that he had put on his slippers, and the step was with heavy
ashoes ; it seemed to pass into the adjoining room in which were some of the
children asleep. They soon heard sounds in that room as of something heavy
falling, and by-and-bye Henry, about five years old, began to cry as if
afraid. The only maid then at home came up to him, when he could not
speak for a length of time for sobbing ; at last he said something spoke to
him, and had also made noises with the chairs.
About the middle of 11th mo., 1841, Christiana Carr went with Eliz.
Mann into a bedroom about 10 p.m. They heard a heavy labouring breath
ing, first at the far side of the room and then very near them, the floor at
the same time shaking with a constant vibration. They hastily retired.
On the 24th of 11th mo. Joseph, who had gone to bed about 8 o'clock,
presently called on his father in some alarm ; he said a man had just been in
who went to the window, threw up the sash, put it down again and then
walked out ; he had light or grey hair and no hat on. He was astonished
J. P. had not met him. Within a few minutes he called out again ; he had
heard a step from the door to the closet at the far side of the room where he
heard something like a cloak fall. He durst not look up to see who it was.
[If any readers exclaim that these are but the dreams and nightmares of
children, I will only remind them that I am simply transcribing from my
father's diary, written on the dates given by his own hand, and that they
.must form their own conclusions.
344 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1892.
The diary goes on to say that my mother had her own mother staying
with her and sleeping with her at this time for about a fortnight.]
One night, when E. P. was asleep, Jane Oarr [her mother] heard a sound
like a continued pelting of small substances which at first she took for cin
ders from the fire ; afterwards, as she sat up in bed, with a light burning,
and seeing nothing, she heard the sound of somebody going gently about the
floor, the dress rustling as it passed from one part of the room to another.
On or about the 1st of 11th mo. E. P. awoke at night, heard the sound of
an animal leaping down off the easy-chair which stood near the bed ; there
was no noise of its getting up and running off, but a dead silence.
7 mo., 14th, 1841.—J. and E. P. heard the spirit in their own room,
and in the room overhead, making a noise as of something heavy being-
hoisted or rolled, or like a barrel set down on its end ; also noises in the
Oamp-room of various and most unaccountable character. Edmund, who ia
about a year and a half old, roused up with every symptom of being dread
fully frightened ; he screamed violently, was a very long time in sleeping
again, and frequently awoke in a fright ; he became feverish and continued
so all the following day, seemed frightened at the sight of his crib, and
alarmed at any noise he did not understand.
8 mo., 3rd.—Since the last date there have been few nights during
which some branch of the family has not heard our visitor. One night
J. P. was awoke and heard something hastily walk, with a step like that
of a child of 8 or 10 years, from the foot of the bed towards the side of
the room, and come back seemingly towards the door, in a run ; then it
gave two stamps with one foot ; there was a loud rustling as of a frock or
night-dress. I need scarcely say the door was locked, and I am quite certain
there was no other human being in the room but E. P., who was asleep.
The two stamps roused E. P. out of her sleep. About this time Joseph, on
two or three occasions, said he had heard voices from underneath his bed
and from other parts of the room, and described seeing on one occasion a
boy in a drab hat much like his own, the boy much like himself too, walking
backwards and forwards between the window and the wardrobe. He wast
afraid but did not speak.
Noises as of a band-box falling close at hand, as of someone running
upstairs when no one was there, and like the raking of a coal rake, were
heard about this time by different members of the family.
8 mo., 6th.—On the night of the 3rd, just after the previous memo
randum was written, about 10.30 p.m., the servants having all retired to
bed, J. and E. P. heard a noise like a clothes-horse being thrown down
in the kitchen. Soon the noises became louder and appeared as though
some persons had burst into the house on the ground floor and were clashing
the doors and throwing things down. Eventually J. P. got one of the
servants to go downstairs with him, when all was found right, no one there,
and apparently nothing moved. The noises now began on the third storey,
and the servants were so much alarmed that it was difficult to get them to
go to bed at all that night.
8 mo., 6th to 12th.—My brother-in-law, George Carr, was with us. He
Deo., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 345
heard steppings and loud rumblings in the middle of the night, and other
noises.
[At this point the diary abruptly comes to an end. I know, however,
that disturbances of a varied character continued more or less, perhaps less
rather than more, for years. One episode during the period has been
frequently told to me by my father, and I think no account of it has been
published. All his family were in Cumberland and he was sleeping alone,
only one servant being in the house. He had retired about 10.30. Owing
to the disturbances he and my mother, as well as the domestics, usually
burnt a rushlight during the night, a description of candle at that time in
common use ; but on this occasion he had no light whatever. He had not
been two minutes in bed when suddenly, seemingly close to the bedside,
there was an awful crash as of a wooden box being wrenched open with a
crowbar with terrific force ; he started up and cried out with a loud voice,
"Begone! thou wicked spirit!" As if in defiance of this adjuration the
fearful crash was almost immediately repeated, and, if possible, louder than
before. Cool-headed as my father was, and inured to unwelcome surprises
from the unknown, he was painfully agitated by this ostentatious outburst
of ill-will or wanton devilry ; he arose, struck a light, searched the room,
opened his bedroom door, listened on the stairs, looked into other rooms,
and explored the house generally, but found everything perfectly quiet.
There was no wind, and indeed there seemed no explanation, but one only,
of this horrid visitation.
Finding life in the house to be no longer tolerable ; fearing also an
unhappy effect, if not a permanent injury on the minds of their children
should they remain longer in such a plague-ridden dwelling, they finally left
it in 1847, and went to reside at Camp Villa, North Shields, social and other
reasons also influencing them in taking this step. My parents have both
repeatedly told me that during the last night they slept in the old house,
the rest of the family having preceded them to the new one, there were con
tinuous noises during the night, boxes being apparently dragged with heavy
thuds down the now carpetless stairs, non-human footsteps stumped on the
floors, doors were, or seemed to be, clashed, and impossible furniture corded
at random or dragged hither and thither by inscrutable agency ; in short, a
pantomimic or spiritualistic repetition of all the noises incident to a house
hold flitting. A miserable night my father and mother had of it, as I have
often heard from their own lips ; not so much from terror at the unearthly
noises, for to these they were habituated, as dread lest this wretched
fanfaronade might portend the contemporary flight of the unwelcome visitors
to the new abode. Fortunately for the family this dread was not realised.
So far as I know, and in this I am confirmed by my elder brother and sisters,
the eight years' residence in the new home was absolutely free from all forms
of the annoyances and uncomfortable knockings, the stealthy steps and the
uncouth mutterings that for ten or eleven years had disturbed the even
tenor of a quiet Quaker family in the old house at Willington Mill.]
The subsequent history of the house may be briefly told. The
foreman and chief clerk in the flour mill, less sensitive perhaps to the
disturbances, and with families of maturer years, raised no objection to
346 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, i892.
occupying it after a time, and it was divided into two separate dwell
ings, and inhabited by them for nearly twenty years. They were
occasionally disturbed by unaccountable noises, and Thomas Mann, the
foreman, on one or two occasions saw what appeared to be apparitions,
but both families were designedly reticent on the subject, and I believe
suffered but little throughout their occupancy. About 1867 the mill
and house were let for a few months to a firm of millers in an adjoining
town whose mill had been burnt down ; I have been informed that
those then occupying the house were much troubled, one family-
declining to stay on any terms. Not long afterwards my father sold
the entire premises to a firm of guano merchants, and information
reached us that two machinists, one of them a German, who were
fixing machinery in the mill, spent some restless evenings and unhappy
nights in the house in fruitlessly trying to discover the origin of fitful
and exasperating disturbances. No effort was made, so far as I know,,
to test the accuracy of these rumours. On one occasion, whilst the
house was unoccupied shortly before its sale, I was one of a party of
four or five young men, one of them a doctor, who spent an entire
night in the house, upstairs, in the hope of hearing or seeing some
thing, but absolutely without result. Some little time after this I was
one of another and larger party, including two ladies, who spent an
evening in another upstairs room, accompanied by a " medium " of
repute at that time well known in Newcastle ; no person whatever
being in the house besides our own party. The stance was not with
out incidents, well understood by those acquainted with such proceed
ings, and which it would be useless at the moment to describe to-
those who are not, but absolutely futile as to establishing any commu
nication with the alleged spirit or spirits supposed to haunt or to have
formerly haunted the premises. My father never made any attempt to-
open up communication in this way ; his experiences were prior to the
time when the modern developments of Spiritualism made the lingo of
the seance familiar to the public ear, and although he took an earnest
interest in the subject, he never attended a seance, and laid stress
upon the application of the well-known text about "seducing spirits
and doctrines of demons." The mill is now only used as a warehouse.
The house has been divided into small tenements ; I understand the
owner, recognising the doubtful repute of the house, offered the apart
ments free for a short term. About two years ago I interviewed
three or four of the tenants, and was told that no disturbances had
been experienced. Although of modest pretensions, it was formerly a
comfortable old-fashioned house of ten or twelve rooms, but the
untidiness of its present aspect is a painful spectacle to those who
remember it at its best ; the stables and adjoining out-buildings have
Deo., i892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 347
been pulled down, the garden wall has disappeared, the jargonelle
pear trees that formerly blossomed up to the third storey are repre
sented by the mere ghosts of blackened stumps, the large old thorn
tree of red blossom, and the abundance of iris and auricula that were
wont to bloom in the garden are as far off as the snows of last winter.
The singular record of the house gives it an interest nevertheless,,
even in its squalid present and its ungracious decay.
Some may think the whole affair altogether a very paltry story. I
admit it is not a very picturesque "ghost"; but whatever its merit it
is at least authentic, and that is a rather important feature in a ghost.
The truth has been told without extenuation or reserve, and if the
recital points to the conclusion that the spirit or spirits, or whatever
you choose to call them, belonged to the residuum of the spirit world,
I hope my family may not be held responsible.
I may be permitted finally to briefly indicate some of my own
conclusions.
If the gibberings, the preposterous incivilities, and the unwhole
some uproar committed in that house for ten unforgettable years by
these unhallowed genii may be accepted as an argument tending to
establish the continued existence of the individual after death, the
seductions of futurity are scarcely increased to
Exhausted travellers that have undergone
The scorching heats of life's intemperate zone.
Such questionable intimations of immortality are hardly calculated to
soothe us—
When worn with adverse passions, furious strife,
And the hard passage of tempestuous life.
Nevertheless, this singular history, taken in connection with others of
its class, may to the impartial and philosophic mind hide a lesson of
the highest import. M. Renan, in one of the very last of his many
charming pages, troubled with doubts as to a future existence, whilst
smiling at the superstition of the old-fashioned and orthodox hell,
exclaims how glad he would be to be sure even of hell, a hypothesis so
preferable to annihilation.
In the same way, may we not justifiably postulate this : that if we
can prove the existence of spirits of a low or inferior order, then faith,
analogy, and evolution, if not logic and conviction, can claim those of
a progressive, a high and superior order 1 Is it not rational to suppose
that the more debased and the most unhappy have the greatest facility
in giving tangible proof of their existence, under certain conditions
imperfectly understood ; whilst the purer and nobler souls find inter
course painful or impossible, but are yet occasionally able to achieve
348 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, pec, 1892.
it in those picturesque and beneficent instances where their visitation
is recorded, not only in the Old and New Testaments, but scattered all
through literature ; cases which possibly the many may still deride, but
which others cherish as indications of the divine and proofs of
immortality 1 Each must draw his own conclusions ; as the prophet of
Treguier says, "Let us all be free to make our own romance of the
infinite."
Edmund Procter.
Newcastle-on-Tyne, October, 1892.
APPENDIX.
I. Correspondence between Mr. Edward Drury and Mr. Joseph Procter, etc.,
quoted from the " Local Historian's Table Book," by M. A. Richardson
(London, 1843), Legendary Division, Vol. I.
[The writer of the account, before quoting the letters, says :—" We have
visited the house in question, which is well known to many of our readers
as being near a large steam corn mill in full view of the Willington viaduct
on the Newcastle and Shields railway,1 and it may not be irrelevant to
mention that it is quite detached from the mill or any other premises, and
has no cellaring under it."]
(1) To Mr. Procter. 17th June, 1840.
Sir,—Having heard from indisputable authority—viz., that of my
.excellent friend, Mr. Davison, of Low Willington, farmer, that you and
jour family are disturbed by most unaccountable noises at night,—I beg leave
to tell you that I have read attentively Wesley's account of such things, but
with, I must confess, no great belief ; but an account of this report coming
from one of your sect, which I admire for candour and simplicity, my
curiosity is excited to a high pitch,—which I would fain satisfy. My desire is
to remain alone in the house all night, with no companion but my own
watch-dog, in which, as far as courage and fidelity are concerned, I place
much more reliance than upon any three young gentlemen I know of. And
it is also my hope that, if I have a fair trial, I shall be enabled to unravel this
mystery. Mr. Davison will give you every satisfaction if you take the
trouble to inquire of him concerning me.
I am, Sir, yours most respectfully,
Edw. Drury.
At C. C. Embleton's, Surgeon, No. 10, Church-street, Sunderland.
(2) Joseph Procter's respects to Edw. Drury, whose note he received
a few days ago, expressing a wish to pass a night in his house at Willington.
As the family is going from home on the 23rd instant, and one of Unthank and
Procter's men will sleep in the house, if E. D. incline to come, on or
after the 24th, to spend a night in it, he is at liberty so to do, with or without
his faithful dog, which, by-the-bye, can be of no possible use, except as
1 As mentioned above, this railway was opened on June 19th, 1840.
Dec, 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 349
company. At the same time, J. P. thinks it best to inform him that
particular disturbances are far from frequent at present, being only
occasional and quite uncertain, and therefore the satisfaction of E. D.'s
curiosity must be considered as problematical. The best chance would be
afforded by his sitting up alone in the third storey till it be fairly daylight—
say 2 or 3 a.m.
Wellington, 6th mo., 21st, 1840.
[Mr. Procter left home with his family on the 23rd of June, and got an
old servant, who was then out of place in consequence of ill-health, to take
charge of the house during their absence. Mr. P. returned alone, on
account of business, on the 3rd of July, on the evening of which day Mr.
Drury and his companion also unexpectedly arrived. After the house had
been locked up, every corner of it was minutely examined. The room out
of which the apparition proceeded, as well as the adjoining rooms, was un
furnished, and the closet out of which it issued is too shallow to contain any
person. Mr. Drury and his friend had two lights by them, and are satisfied
that there was no one in the house besides Mr. P., the servant and them
selves.]
(3) To Mr. Procter. Monday morning, July 6th, 1840.
Dear Sir,—I am sorry I was not at home to receive you when you kindly
called yesterday to inquire for me. I am happy to state that I am really
surprised that I have been so little affected as I am, after that horrid and
most awful affair, the only bad effect that I feel is a heavy dulness in one
of my ears—the right one ; I call it heavy dulness, because I not only do
not hear distinctly, but feel in it a constant noise ; this I was never affected
with heretofore; but I doubt not it will go off. I am persuaded that no one
went to your house at any time more disbelieving in respect to seeing anything
peculiar ; now no one can be more satisfied than myself. I will, in the
course of a few days, send you a full detail of all I saw and heard. Mr.
Spence and two other gentlemen came down to my house in the afternoon
to hear my detail; but, sir, could I account for these noises from natural
causes, yet, so firmly am I persuaded of the horrid apparition, that I
would affirm that what I saw with my eyes was a punishment to me for my
scoffing and unbelief, that I am assured that, as far as the horror is con
cerned, they are happy that believe and have not seen. . . .
Edward Drury.
(4) From Mr. Procter to Mr. Drury.
Willington, 7th mo., 9, 1840.
. . . . I shall be glad to receive thy detail, in which it will be
needful to be very particular in showing that thou couldst not be asleep, or
attacked by nightmare, or mistake a reflection of the candle, as some
sagaciously suppose. . . . Josh. Procter.
(5) From Mr. Drury to Mr. Procter.
Sunderland, July 13th, 1840.
Dear Sir,—I hereby, according to promise in my last letter, forward you
a true account of what I heard and saw at your house, in which I was led to
pass the night from various rumours circulated by most respectable parties,
particularly from an account by my esteemed friend Mr. Davison, whose
350 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec., 1892.
name I mentioned to you in a former letter. Having received your sanction
to visit your mysterious dwelling I went, on the 3rd of July, accompanied
by a friend of mine, named T. Hudson. This was not according to promise,
nor in accordance with my first intent, as I wrote you I would come alone ;
but I felt gratified at your kindness in not alluding to the liberty I had taken,
as it ultimately proved for the best. I must here mention that, not expecting
you at home, I had in my pocket a brace of pistols, determining in my mind
to let one of these drop as if by accident, before the miller, for fear he should
presume to play tricks upon me ; but after my interview with you I felt there
was no occasion for weapons, and did not load them, after you had allowed
us to inspect as minutely as we pleased every portion of the house. I
sat down on the third storey landing, fully expecting to account
for auy noises I might hear in a philosophical manner. This was about
eleven o'clock p.m. About ten minutes to twelve we both heard a noise,
as if a number of people was pattering with their bare feet upon the
floor ; and yet, so singular was the noise that I could not minutely
determine from whence it proceeded. A few minutes afterwards, we heard
a noise, as if some one was knocking with his knuckles among our feet ; this
was immediately followed by a hollow cough from the very room from which
the apparition proceeded. The only noise after this was as if a person was
rustling against the wall in coming upstairs. At a quarter to one,
I told my friend that, feeling a little cold, I would like to go
to bed, as we might hear the noises equally well there. He
replied that he would not go to bed till daylight. I took up a
note which I had accidentally dropped, and began to read it, after
which I took out my watch to ascertain the time, and found that it wanted
ten minutes to one. In taking my eyes from the watch they became rivetted
upon a closet door, which I distinctly saw open, and saw also the figure of
a female attired in greyish garments, with the head inclining downwardsi
and one hand pressed upon the chest, as if in pain, and the other, viz., the
right hand, extended towards the floor, with the index finger pointing
downwards. It advanced with an apparently cautious step across the floor
towards me ; immediately as it approached my friend, who was slumbering,
its right hand was extended towards him ; I then rushed at it, giving at the
time, as Mr. Procter states, a most awful yell ; but instead of grasping it, I
fell upon my friend, and I recollected nothing distinctly for nearly three
hours afterwards. I have since learnt that I was carried downstairs in an
agony of fear and terror.
I hereby certify that the above account is strictly true and correct in
every respect.
Edw. Drury.
North Shields.
II. Letters from, Mr. Joseph Procter, published in the "Spiritual Magazine"
Vol. IV., 1863, pp. 30, 33, and 432.
(1) Camp Villa, North Shields, 9 mo. 2nd, 1853.
The publicity given to the occurrences at Willington
a few years ago, through Crowe's Night Side of Nature, has given occasion
many inquiries similar to thy own, and I have never shrunk from the
Deo., 1892.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 351
avowal of undoubting assurance of these appearances, noises, &c., being
made by the spirit of some person or persons deceased, notwithstanding
that the who and the wherefor have not hitherto been ascertained. In
reply to thy inquiry about the accuracy of the narrative in the work referred
to, I may state that the portion of it from p. 125 to p. 137 taken from
Richardson's Table Book, a local antiquarian publication, was written by the
late Dr. Clanny, of Sunderland, and revised by myself before being printed,
and is perfectly true and correct. In that other portion, derived from
William Howitt's personal inquiries, there are trifling inaccuracies, yet not
such as materially affect the nature of the facts referred to. The disturb
ances had become much less frequent before I left the house in 1847, and,
with a very few exceptions, have not since occurred ; nor has anything of
that nature ever followed us to our present dwelling. ....
(2) Tynemouth, 1 mo. 7th, 1858.
I remember very well having corresponded with thee on the subject of
the mysterious occurrences in my house at Willington, about three years
ago ; and it is a satisfaction to me to have the opportunity given me to
assure thee that the statement referred to in thy favour of yesterday, as
given by a gentleman who has lived at Newcastle, that I had found the
disturbances described in Mrs. Crowe's Night Side of Nature to have been
a trick practised upon me from interested motives, is entirely void of
truth
(3) To the Editor of the Spiritual Magazine.
Tynemouth, 7 mo 20th, 1863.
The following statement of your able and esteemed correspondent,
William Howitt, in the number for July, I believe to be founded in mis
apprehension, and will thank you to insert this correction in the next
month's number :—"There are said to be evidences of the .spirits haunting
Willington Mill, having done so to an older house on the same spot for two
hundred years." I believe no such evidences exist, the premises having
been erected in 1800, on ground never before built on. Persons acquainted
with the neighbourhood, and knowing the statement I have quoted to be an
error, might thus be led to discredit the whole narrative, as truly and
circumstantially related in the number for January. There is an older
house about two hundred yards from Willington Mill, in which there was a
mysterious ringing of bells about forty years ago ; and about twenty years
since, the person who then occupied it told me that occasionally at night
very strange noises were heard, adding, "It must be rats, you know."
That is, however, more than I know, and may be left as a doubtful question.
Joseph Procter.
III. Account of an interview between Professor Sidgwick and Mrs. Hargrave,
on Jan. 'ird, 1884, taken from his notes made at the time.
Mrs. Hargrave, one of Mrs. Procter's sisters, saw on one occasion an
apparition similar to that seen by Dr. Diury. She described it as the
figure of a woman in a grey mantle, which came through the wall of her
room from the next. There was a light in the room ; her sister
who was with her was asleep. The feet of the figure appeared to
352 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dec, 1892t
be about three feet from the floor. It came close up to the bed.
She also saw in the day time a large white cat in the garden. It was larger
than a real cat and with a long snout. It appeared to go through the closed
garden-door or through the wall into the engine-house, where Mr. Procter,
being in the mill-yard, saw it go into the engine-house and disappear as if it
had gone into the fire. The cat was also seen by her in one of the bedrooms,
going through a closed door. She often heard the noises which so many
others in the house heard ; e.g., she would hear sounds as of someone
coming downstairs with wooden shoes and rapping every rail with a stick,
also as of the clock being wound up. For about three months she slept in
the room on the third floor over the nursery, and though she heard the
noises for three months, said nothing about them, till her youngest sister,
now Mrs. Wright, heard a loud noise and talked to her about it. Mrs.
Hargrave also often felt her bed shaken as if some one was standing at the
bottom of it and striking blows against a board placed to keep a child
from falling out. She also used to hear dancing and noises in a room which
was used as a schoolroom (the schoolroom being ascertained to be empty),
and shaking of the window frame in the room below. When the children
were playing in the room upstairs, Mrs. Hargrave and her sister, playing
with them, used to see a door banged in their faces, the windows being shut
and there being no draughts to cause it.
Mrs. Hargrave also referred to many of the incidents related in Mr.
Procter's narrative in connection with other members of the family, and
gave Professor Sidgwick an account of the description of the haunting by the
clairvoyants " Jane " (for which see Mrs. Sidgwick's paper On the evidence for
Clairvoyance, Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII., pp. 54, 82-84, 86, 87).
A FRENCH REVIEW OF "HALLUCINATIONS
TELEPATHIQUES."
The Revue des Deux Monies for November 1st, 1892, contains a
review of Hallucinations TiUpathiques, the French abridgment and
adaptation of Phantasms of the Living which M. Marillier has skilfully
translated and arranged. The writer of the review (which embraces
other works in French on similar topics) is M. Paulhan, well known as
a psychologist, and author of L'activiti Mentale et les iliments de
Vesprit. M. Paulhan's tone is very favourable to our researches, and
this review, taken in conjunction with others, also for the most part
favourable, which have appeared in other French newspapers and
periodicals, indicates that the translated work has been received in
France with considerably more of appreciation, and even of positive
adhesion, than we on our part had ventured to expect. It is now
announced as in its second edition.
