{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1katie_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Katie E NDE 7714","mylang":"de"}
          	        Katie E NDE 7714  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Katie E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3967 Katie E NDE 7714  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was the summer of 1995. I was 15 years old with my boyfriend at the time. We had been smoking some strong, super skunk weed when I started to feel very faint and sick. I could hardly stand up and my legs turned to jelly. I had never had this reaction to smoking weed before and all I wanted to do was collapse. I saw a bench on the other side of the street.  We were just about to cross the road then everything went black.  I collapsed and hit the back of my head on the pavement.  I had a seizure, like an epileptic fit, for about 2 seconds. After the short fit, which I have never had prior to this event or after, my eyes opened as I gained consciousness.  

I saw my boyfriend and two sweet women who had stopped to help. I was only out a few seconds, but I know I travelled to another world.  I felt like I was there for hours and hours, but I couldn't really put a time duration on it.  All I know is it was a lot longer than a few seconds. I have no real memory from the other world that I travelled to, just I have the feeling that I travelled through the most beautiful paradise I have ever seen.  When I reached the destination, I spoke to very wise knowledgeable beings, like God or Jesus. These people gave me knowledge and an understanding of the universe, which I wanted to share with people on this earth. Then everything was black again.  It felt like all the memories of this beautiful amazing place and the people that I met, all the memories were taken from my mind, like sand falling through my fingers. Then I was falling backwards so fast and the memories were getting further away. I was trying so hard to fight it but the memories would not stay, all I could say to myself over and over was, 'You must remember where you've been.  You must remember where you've been.' It felt like they or the other world did not want me to bring the knowledge back and I believe there is a reason for this. As I was telling myself, 'You must remember where you've been,' I could see  blackness. I saw one vertical beam of bright white light in front of me that was flowing like electricity. This string of light then divided into three strings of slow-moving electricity/energy and started to change to colors of red, white and blue. Each string of light then shot off quickly and then each one started to spin around like planets in space. Each spinning planet gradually turned into the features of a face. 

Then I realized that each one was a person looking at me as I was lying on the ground.  One of the women said, 'It's ok dear, you've just had an epileptic fit.'  Her friend was there and my boyfriend was there too. I felt absolutely out of it for a few days after this. Strangely, the feelings I have from the memories of the other world that although I could not vividly remember them, seemed more real than my experience on earth. For years after this experience, I shrugged it off as a dream I had while unconscious.  I attributed the experience to abnormal electricity in my brain during the seizure.  But my husband told me about the NDERF website and I was amazed to read other people's stories from around the world. I am now convinced that during my seizure, somehow I crossed over to the other world for those brief few seconds.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1995

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain.  Direct head injury.    Other: Fainting and a blow to the back of the head resulting in a seizure.  I fainted and when my head hit the ground, I had a seizure for several seconds.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It's very hard to explain this because I knew everything about the universe but they would not let me bring that knowledge back.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think I was most alert when I was travelling through the unearthly landscape, but I can't be sure because the memories are gone.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was not aware of time but I knew my body had passed out for two seconds but the place I visited I was there for hours and hours.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I can't remember any difference in vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I can't remember anything about hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I knew I travelled through an unearthly landscape.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I travelled through an unearthly but amazingly beautiful landscape that is impossible to describe because the memories were taken from me.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness, kindness, happiness and amazement.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     During my journey and the encounter with the beings, I learned everything about the universe and existence.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I accept all religions and faiths and believe we are all part of one God. I have always been very compassionate to others.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I have no real beliefs at the time but as a child I would often talk to my Grandad who had passed, so I would say I'm open minded to the thought of a spiritual realm.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I accept all religions and faiths and believe we are all part of one God. I have always been very compassionate to others.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I feel that I met God and/or Jesus.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I had a feeling that we are all connected as one, but just a feeling as I can't remember.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I thought I spoke to God or Jesus but they would not let me remember.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The answer to existence, the universe, and everything.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Yes I have the feeling that I was given life's meaning but memories were taken away.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     Sadly I am unable to remember the information.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Before I knew I had actually experienced an NDE, I just thought it was a dream. But since having a child and discovering this website, I would say I have totally accepted that we are all highly spiritual beings who will experience this world many times before our souls are evolved enough to live with God.     Before I knew I had actually experienced an NDE, I just thought it was a dream. But since having a child and discovering this website, I would say I have totally accepted that we are all highly spiritual beings who will experience this world many times before our souls are evolved enough to live with God.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's difficult to explain because I know I went to the most amazing awe-inspiring world, with forms, colors and feelings that I have never experienced before.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have always shared this experience with people whom I feel a connection with and who won't judge me. I have not told my parents.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I thought you travelled through a tunnel and saw light at the end, which is what I was told. I did not experience this.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I knew something amazing had happened to me because I knew my mind was somewhere else for a long time.  My body only had a seizure for 2 seconds. But because I had been smoking weed and I couldn't remember the experience, most people probably thought I was just intoxicated from the drug, so I didn't know if it was real or not.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After reading other people's accounts of their experiences, I firmly believe I entered the spiritual realm, after a blow to the back of my head, which resulted in a seizure. I am also a more spiritual person after having my baby 5 years ago. I feel that I have let another soul experience their spiritual journey in life as I am on mine.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1katie_e_nde.html