{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathy_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathy F NDE 2327","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathy F NDE 2327  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kathy F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						686  Kathy F NDE  2327  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was experiencing much abdominal pain, perhaps because of cholera or food poising or something, nobody really knows. I had symptoms of being severely sick with vomiting and diarrhea with cramping in my stomach and extremities. I remember getting into the ambulance from a gurney but then I do not remember much after that.

Then I remember seeing an intense light and having no fear, but relaxed. Then a figure emerged who I identified as Jesus - a figure consistent with a painting of Jesus my grandmother had. I really only remember seeing the bottom part of his robe, ankles and feet, but I knew the whole being was also somehow present. I remember arguing with this figure, very forcefully, telling him that I could not join with him yet because I had a child to raise. I needed to be there for my child.

Then I woke up. At first, I was incredulous that what had happened to me was real. The longer I reflected on this experience, the more I was convinced it was real and that it was a gift, a responsibility of some kind. Very special. Eventually I became peaceful with it and accepted it as part of me.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 Summer 1976  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness        Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I was very sick to my stomach.  I was extremely dehydrated and losing feeling in my extremities. Possible cardiac arrest. I have a vestigial memory of someone pounding on my chest. When I woke up I was in the hospital room with an IV.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I'm really not sure whether my consciousness was greater at that time because over the years I have become very purposeful in the way I direct my life and in seeking spiritual answers. So everything sort of blends together as a continuum.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was arguing with the being, Jesus.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   The experience was so unlike my earthly existence, with no sense of time or space.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was all encompassing. I was part of the vision and included in what I perceived.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I do not remember hearing any sound at all. My communication with the being was telepathic.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Not that I remember.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met a being who I identified as Jesus and argued with him to let me raise my child.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was all encompassing and I was part of that light. It was a very bright light but comfortable.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm and confident. I argued very strongly and persuasively for my request to return to raise my daughter.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I learned that an experience like this could happen, which was something I did not know before. I became less fearful of earth life after this experience. This fearlessness remains with me today. I am not reckless in anyway, but I have no fear of dying at all.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I just don't know.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I just don't know.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt free and peaceful without fear. My husband is full of fear but I am not. I'm not a daredevil or reckless, but I am willing to try different things and participatory in social ways. I became much more confident. I believe I had these traits before the experience but felt that my confidence was being eroded because of my husband's fear. The experience snapped me out of that erosion.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I'm really not sure.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Perhaps the event freed my intuitions about others.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The part of arguing and that I would react with such strength and purpose was significant. Also the fact that I returned and am still here was meaningful.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with my husband but he just scoffed at me. So I just kept it to myself. But at some point I shared it with my mother and she listened, accepted, and said that she knew others who had this kind of experience and that it changed them forever. I believe her acceptance of my experience allowed me to be more accepting of it myself. In a way she gave me permission to accept it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew there were such things in a clinical way, but that was it. It never occupied much of my awareness.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I knew something had happened to me but I searched this world for confirmation or understanding of what had gone on.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My study and experience with others has taught me how common it is and that it definitely had a reality within the consciousness of many others besides me.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathy_f_nde.html