{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathy_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathy N NDE 3226","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathy N NDE 3226  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kathy N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1198  Kathy N NDE  3226  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

The alarm on the blood pressure machine was the last thing I heard before it felt like I shot out of myself. In the next instant, my back was to the ceiling and I was looking down at all the activity. I knew the body on the table was mine, but it didn't matter to me. All I felt was an intense curiosity about what I was seeing. There was a bright silvery white light to my left, but I didn't want to look at it yet. Instead, I wanted to look the doctor in the eye. With a thought, I was there, face to face with him, but he couldn't see me. His concern was to get the baby out, while another group worked on me. With a mere thought, I went around to each person in the room and watched them. I was looking at my nurse (she looked so sad) when suddenly I was slammed back into myself with tremendous force. All the pain gripped me, and I could feel the pressure from the incision on my lower abdomen. I heard someone say, 'We have her back.' Then under anesthesia, I went. When I awoke in recovery the same nurse was there that had been holding my hand in the operating room. I told her about the things I'd seen and heard while I'd been outside myself. Unfortunately, it frightened her and after that day, I didn't see her again. When I tried to talk to the doctor about it, he ignored me.

I can't fully describe the intensity of how it felt: colors were more vivid, sound was different - more melodic, there was absolutely no fear only curiosity. Before I came back, I heard (more like a thought) 'Not yet.' I tell you, coming back was scarier than leaving.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    'April 14, 1982'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  I was in hard labor for fourteen hours with no progress. My daughter was in fetal distress and I was rushed to the operating room for an emergency cesarean section. While being prepped, my blood pressure dropped to 62/48 and I went into shock.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Right before I came back.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Right before I came back.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   There was no sense of time at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Everything seemed to be luminescent and the colors were much more vivid.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    It was more like hearing thoughts and it had a melodic quality.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     I could sense others nearby.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Off to the left, silvery white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Curiosity and detachment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     I knew I couldn't leave the room.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Methodist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I'm now spiritual, but I practice no indoctrinated religion.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Spiritual but not religious.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I'm now spiritual, but I practice no indoctrinated religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  They're more significant.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Mere words are inadequate to express the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I've had them as long as I can remember, but they've intensified since this happened.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I shared it with the nurse. After that, I waited fourteen years before I told anyone else. It frightened many people, but now that I've talked about it more I find that people who are old or ill want to hear. I believe it gives them comfort to know or hear that there is something else after this organic life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I know it was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I will be there again someday.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathy_n_nde.html