{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathy_r_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathy R Possible NDE 4095","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathy R Possible NDE 4095  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kathy R Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			1968 Kathy R Possible NDE 4095  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was celebrating my twentieth birthday and had invited just a few select people around - mainly sisters and brothers. I remember being pleased people had made it and for some reason, unbeknown to me then or now, I started drinking sherry that someone had brought with them I think. My dad left, then my brother brought out a joint - my husband was in bed by this time. My brother handed around the joint and I felt brave enough to have a drag. Then when it came around again - I had another.

Exit - the bathroom and my head down the toilet and I remember I couldn't breathe. Next thing, I was travelling at rapid speed into a beautifully light and an incredibly colorful tube. The speed was indescribable and I 'erupted' out of the other end to have this incredible 'being' right in front of me. The feeling was amazing and a 'communication' began between us - I do not remember what was said, but it was not 'speech' as we know it on earth. I know it seemed in my soul that it was about 'me' and what I had done so far. The being was surrounded by a brilliant blue and white light that I had never seen before or since. I then realized - that I was 'mind'. I could 'see' and I felt like a child - wonderful place to be.

Although it was probably very quick in earth time, it felt as though it was forever that we communicated. I felt comfort and truth and peaceful. My consciousness was fully alert and more. It was a super consciousness - which all of us have.

I seemed to not be allowed further and that my purpose on earth had not been fulfilled yet. So, I returned back to my body with head down the toilet and my husband's voice 'shaking' in my ears like 'water vapor'. He had woken and sent everybody home and quite upset that my brother had given me dope. I was so sick and throwing up - I just couldn't breathe again. My husband helped me to bed quickly. The next thing I remember was hearing voices discussing the fact I 'would be with child soon' - but I seemed to need to concentrate on 'living'. Next thing, I was in front of this time, the beautiful blue planet earth! I cannot describe that feeling that you just don't gradually get somewhere - you just are there! I looked at the planet, which was incredibly 'blue' and beautiful then was 'told' that 'now I was going to see the universe'. How incredibly lucky am I. How weak and insignificant did I feel with the knowledge that there was indeed a power like this, which was sharing with me.

I eventually woke early next morning - feeling drastically changed. My husband then informed me I had seen Father Time. I ignored his 'comment' thinking he was bonkers at that time.  It was certainly not a description I would have given this amazing experience. We separated not long after this and unfortunately, I became pregnant to another man. That began my new chapter in life as I embarked on an emotional roller coaster over the next two to three years.

Now, I still have this experience at the forefront of my mind, but never, ever, ever will I be able to forget this experience and feel extremely honored to have had it. Also, the most important thing is that I've been able to share this with people who will take me seriously. I am also able to understand some of your other writers' experiences and hopefully they realize that all of this is 'real'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  17 11 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Had been drinking sherry (which I didn't normally do) and had a couple of drags on a joint (which I definitely normally did not do).  Other 'Healthy, but had drunk far too much and smoked dope for relatively first time.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time and there is definitely 'more' alertness and consciousness - again hard to communicate unless you've also been there.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time doesn't exist - like has been described to you before - it's definitely man made. We are here and now all the time - we just seem to be sleeping now I think. You 'wake' up there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were incredibly different - bluer than blue for me personally and my normal speech was replaced by thought transference. The experience was so vivid and extraordinary.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was acute.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a 'very' colorful tube ride at vast speed. Seemed like something out of the film 'Contact' with Jodie Foster.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met a 'being' far superior to anything or anyone I've met here on the earth. Weirdly and funnily enough, he appeared to have long white hair and a long white beard. Surrounded by incredible blue light.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Incredible light and blue and white.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I mostly saw the beautiful 'being' and the planet earth then the stars beyond.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Incredible peace and the thought that it was more real than the earth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     The strangest thing was that after I came round briefly then went back into my experience, I saw the beautiful blue planet in all its glory and was so amazingly lucky to have been granted a 'ride through the universe'.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Thank goodness and sympathize with others who are.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was given a 'sight' of the universe, but my memory seems to be blocked.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Been brought up Catholic but hadn't practiced since 15 years old and had no time for religion.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now have every reason to 'know' there is something beyond our present existence. This is just a stage in our lives. Our lives continue after our body ceases to function. I have had a massive and passionate desire to read as much literature as I can to 'understand' the experience I have had. It's almost as if I was 'supposed' to find out and share this with others.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'My nearest belief system would be the Buddhist faith.  But they all lead to same thing anyway.  So, no 'religious' belief - just a knowing.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now have every reason to 'know' there is something beyond our present existence. This is just a stage in our lives. Our lives continue after our body ceases to function. I have had a massive and passionate desire to read as much literature as I can to 'understand' the experience I have had. It's almost as if I was 'supposed' to find out and share this with others.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Definitely thought for some stupid reason - I did not bring it back with me. But, I know there was a purpose for the earth and my existence here. I need to 'do' what I'm supposed to 'do' and then it'll be time 'to go on'.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I always seem to want to seek the truth in things. I sense things more and I love people more - even 'apparent' wrong doers. I always feel there is a reason 'why' someone is unpleasant or does unpleasant things. There is always 'some' good in people, or at least I have a passion to try to 'see' this in them now.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The fact that you know or sense no one will believe you. Most of it was so incredible; it makes it hard to communicate the beauty and truth of it all.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Exited my body a couple of times later. Went to places in my dreams which I could verify the next day and hadn't been before. My experiences became stronger for a while then weakened. Today I have fewer experiences but have had more 'frightening' dreams, which I believe came true.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole thing was significant and real and wonderful and I think the numbers of experiences are becoming higher. It is all part of our human state and probably our next evolutionary 'jump'.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I tried to tell people but they thought I was 'mad' and I believe I did become 'mad' for a while because it's not such an abnormal thing to be; especially when you've been where I've been and back. Generally, as time went on and I didn't let go of my experience, I believe that people I know generally now believe that 'something' happened to me which was out of the ordinary.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It just wasn't anything like I experienced before.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because I've never experienced anything like this and wish I could again - only problem being I wouldn't be able to come back to my family - which is why I want to stay.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had other experiences but not through substances or medications.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes - it is all part of our human experience and if one doesn't experience it here - then there is plenty of scope to experience it when you finally 'pass over'.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathy_r_possible_nde.html