{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathleen_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathleen P Probable NDE 4145","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathleen P Probable NDE 4145  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			                              				  					Kathleen P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2030 Kathleen P Probable NDE  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was critically ill, had surgery and within twenty-four hours I was septic and went into adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and placed on a ventilator. I remained unconscious for six days and it was unknown if I would survive. I remember waking twice. Once I saw my fingers and being a nurse thought to myself, 'Oh boy I'm septic,' and again to see my nurse holding my Foley catheter, I noticed the color of my urine and again to myself thought, 'Multi-system failure, that's bad.' Next, I found myself surrounded by an all-consuming light.

It was wonderful, comforting and described as incredibly good. It was a glow as if in the center of a candle flame, that orange yellow glow. I had no sense of body and saw only the light. I felt torn between staying and so wanted to. I heard myself say, 'But he is only nine,' referring to my son. Immediately after that, I found myself sitting in my hospital bed there were no machines, no IV's, I felt fine. There was a knock at my window. I knew I was on the second floor and was surprised. With a giggle I said, 'Okay I'll play along, come in!' I closed my eyes and when I opened them, I saw my grandfather standing at the foot of my bed shaking his finger at me and shaking his head. 

I closed my eyes.  I was again in my hospital bed unable to speak and my friend was wiping my mouth.  I heard her say, 'Oh she's drooling.' After that the process of waking up and recovering began.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January/February 2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'I had a severe illness resulting in surgery, followed by sepsis and ARDS'  ARDS (Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was awake and alert the entire time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was awake and alert the entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I could have stayed if I wanted to. I wonder if the rest of my family was there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     While in the light I felt not alone. My Pop was clearly there after the light.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   All-consuming warm glow.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think another dimension. The room was acurate and the feeling of reality was strong.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Conflicted on whether or not I could stay and sad I could not.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'I am Christian basically believing Jesus existed and had special knowledge so much that it changed time. I believe there is something and am open to the ideas of levels of existence, alternate dimensions, destiny and reincarnation. I had no ''fear'' of death because since it is the only mandatory thing after birth it must be good.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'My views have not changed but have expanded to include the possibility of ancient aliens, and alternate universe. I also feel it is entirely possible that Jesus had a family. After all, he was living as a man and teacher among us. I also believe that a world-changing event could occur. I know that whatever it is that I will be okay.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   At present, interested to see or know more, but had to choose. That bit of uncertainty or unwillingness to leave my son made the decision for me. I still struggle with what my grandfather meant. I was curious to learn and know someday I will get to go there again.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I was a victim of domestic domination and abuse. I was being controlled by others. I stood up to my oppressors and took control of my life living it the way I wanted.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I still struggle with what did my grandfather mean. Was it wrong choice, or was it a sign to get my life in order.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was immediately and continue to do so up to this time. People are quite interested.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew they existed and grew up with the normal 'Go to the light' sayings.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I can't explain but to say it was as real as sitting here typing to you.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathleen_p_probable_nde.html