{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathleen_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathleen S NDE 3582","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathleen S NDE 3582  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kathleen S NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1612 Kathleen S NDE 3582  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In Kentucky I was living with my husband and my mother-in-law and I got in a bad fight with my husband Lloyd and I took an overdose of insulin. I then passed out and Lloyd put me in the car and took me to the hospital. I do not remember any of this but I remember waking up with myself sitting in the corner and watching a sheet being pulled over my head and then my spirit followed the doctor outside into the waiting room. The doctor told my husband that I had two heart attacks in five minutes and I died. 

My spirit then followed my husband outside and he punched the building and screamed no, no, no and he screamed at the sky and said why God why? I remember my uncle Richard my aunt Mary and my grandma and grandpa were waiting for me when I went through the white light. They said, 'You need to go back because your children and your family need you here on earth not in heaven yet.' It was a very nice ride through the white light.

I did not want to come back but the nurse used something to bring me back. I was flown by helicopter sixty miles away to the hospital. I do not remember the airlift to the other hospital but a week later I woke up in the intensive care unit and my husband Lloyd was sitting by my bedside. I do remember looking at him and crying. My near death experience was wonderful but I was not meant to go yet. My life has changed for the better, my mom is dying of cancer, and I do everything for her and my kids. I found out that God was not ready for me yet. My life has been better since that happened. I lost my father to cancer a year and a half ago and I am a totally changed person but I changed for the better instead of for the worse. Life is so very wonderful now for me that words cannot even explain it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April or may of 2003

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Other I AM A BRITTLE DIABETIC AND I WAS RUSHED TO THE HOSPITAL BY MY LAST HUSBAND LLOYD SCHULTEN AND I HAD 2 HEART ATTACKS IN A ROW IN 5 MINUTES APART.  I went into a diabetic low blood sugar coma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   After I died.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I died.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw everything more brightly and clearer.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard better than when I was alive.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went through a white light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My family who had died severely painful deaths.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt sad because the doctor told my husband I had died.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Everything that I did good in my life.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I depend on God more now since all that happened.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   FULL CHRISTIAN

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I depend on God more now since all that happened.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes They are better.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I had an wonderful experience when I died but I was brought back by the nurse.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I know when and can feel when somebody I love is feeling pain.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, one, make my life better and help people.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was strange but not really.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe that I was sent that way for a good reason.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was wonderful and I will never forget it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathleen_s_nde.html