{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathryn_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathryn G NDE 772","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathryn G NDE 772  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kathryn G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						293  Kathryn G NDE  772  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had a cardiac arrest.  The next thing I remember is looking at my body lying on the gurney and I looked inside the ambulance and saw a small sign that gave the load capacity.  Being a rather plump person with a sense of humor about it I looked at myself lying there and thought ok we'll both fit.  Then I stepped up into the ambulance and my dad, ho had just died in May, said, 'What are you doing here?' (Although he didn't really speak - I just 'knew'.)  He was smiling and teasing me, I answered, 'I don't know.'  Then he communicated to me, 'You have to go back you have grandkids.'  My mom was sitting next to my dad and she communicated her agreement with my dad.


Then I remember floating over my body and seeing the doctors and nurses working on my body and I remember thinking to myself, 'Why are they so upset?'  It was okay where I was, but I couldn't communicate that to them, but that didn't upset me I just have no words to describe the light coming from my parents or the way I felt.  I still can't put it into words.


The next thing I was aware of was my daughter telling me I was in the hospital they had just done surgery on my heart and I needed to fight because I was in the intensive care unit.  She and my two sons, my daughter-in-law and my sister were so upset and I couldn't tell them I was going to be ok because I was on a respirator and it made me mad.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October 24,2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Heart attack    Clinical death Sudden Cardiac ArrestI had a sudden cardiac arrest, I felt no pain.  I just fell over dead on my front lawn.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      It was as clear as a bell.  I knew everything that I was doing but my body was not with me.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See above.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   White, but I can't describe its brilliance or how it was coming from the inside of my parents.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The beauty came from knowing where I was.  It was the most wonderful place I've ever been.  Words can't describe it.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I know I am supposed to be here to finish being a good grandma.  I know that the love we feel goes on with us and I know we can communicate with those that have gone before us if we listen and believe what our hearts tell us.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I know where I'm going when I leave this world.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   My dad told me I had to go back and my mom agreed.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know life is a gift we are here to learn, we chose our circumstances to do that learning and since I chose to be sick most of my life I have no one to blame and I'm no longer angry or depressed about my chronic pain.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I know what happened to me is as real as the fact that the sun sets in the West, I cannot understand why some doubt what I know is true.  It has confirmed what I always known was true.  That we are not alone when we leave the Earth, that somehow life goes on, and that we can communicate with those who have left the Earth before us. And that there are beings (some call them angels) that are everywhere and they help us when we need it.  I guess my frustration is I can't find the words to describe what I felt or what I know to be true.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I am understanding my dreams now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       It was really an easy way to die.  That is how I hope I leave when I die for good.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My youngest son believes me completely, my daughter believes the parts that agree with her Christian upbringing.  My oldest believes me but he won't talk about it without making jokes about it.  He's afraid of what people might say.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathryn_g_nde.html