{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathrine_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathrine D Probable NDE 7872","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathrine D Probable NDE 7872  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kathrine D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			4075 Kathrine D Probable NDE 7872  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In October of 2015, I had to undergo the removal of three lumps that were supposedly smaller than 2.5 cm in my right breast. During the placement of the leads, the local anesthesia was not numbing the area.  Due to my breast being so dense, it was agreed that I would be given general anesthesia. The doctor informed me that the surgery would only be about 45 minutes and leave a slight scar less then 1' long that would heal into almost nothing. I remember telling the students in the operating room what I was having done, and then there was blackness. 

Suddenly I was in a clouded tunnel. To the most outside edge, the clouds were like dark storm clouds.  The closer they were to me, the lighter they became so that next to me were bright white clouds. I was so interested in the clouds. I studied them, watching them rolling around me like a fun-house tunnel rotating around me. The difference was that I never got dizzy. I was strolling through the tunnel, like I was studying each cloud. I was not rushing, so there was no super speed. It was almost like being on a straight escalator but I knew my legs were walking. I was going forward, not up or down. I finally looked forward, and maybe 30 feet away in front of me was a figure standing in the light at the end of the tunnel. He had brown hair that was a little longer then shoulder length and a brown beard that came just to the top of his collar bone. I noticed he wore a white robe with an almost Roman or Greek red sash draping one shoulder and across his chest. I could not focus on his face.  Although the beard was clear, his face was not. His arms were out towards me, as if he was wondering why I was there and why was I taking my time?  I was like he was asking if was what I was expecting.  I was not sure which he meant because he never spoke. I remember I tilted my head to the side and smiled at him. Then I felt myself being pulled back. I saw him act frantic, almost trying to reach a hand out to grab me, but he missed. As I was being pulled backwards, I saw him 'throw' a stack of color at me like a Frisbee. I felt like images and information were being downloaded into my brain. 

When I woke up from the 'download', the first thought I had were words I croaked, 'Oh my God, I died!' The nurse at the station came over immediately and told me to go back to sleep. I told her, 'No.' She again told me to try to go back to sleep as I was still coming out of anesthesia. Again I told her 'No.' I was fully aware, very much rested, and very interested in what I saw. So she sighed at me and asked if I was hungry and thirsty. I was starving. So she got my oldest daughter and my fiancée and brought me food. As soon as my fiancée made it through the curtain, I immediately told him what I saw. He looked at me and then told me, my 45 minute surgery lasted 2 hours.  One of the lumps they removed was the size of a golf ball, and because of that, my under 1 inch cut was now almost 3 inches long. I immediately asked him if the surgeon said anything about me dying. He replied no. I looked right at him and told him point blank, without a doubt in my mind, that I did die. I don't care if it was just a slip of a heartbeat or if they decided not to tell anyone because they brought me back. I know I died. Now, I just want to know what the man in the tunnel downloaded to me and why he had seemed to have not wanted to let me go.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 19th 2015

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Surgery-related. While under general anesthesia.      Other: No one told me

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was more focused and clear.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was always aware since I was first in the tunnel to the time I left.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time. Time is something we created to keep track of events. It means nothing. We are prisoners of time and this place made me feel timeless, young, and ageless.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Again, I was more focused, more interested in studying the tunnel.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was very sensitive as I could hear the clouds move.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The clouds were surrounding me like a fun-house tunnel, turning around me but no dizziness. Floating spinning and at the end was the brightest light. At first, there was no one, but then there was the man.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was very bright, brighter than the floodlights on a baseball field.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was fascinated. Intrigued is such an insufficient term. I was happy. Joy filled me like watching clouds in the sky as a child.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     More like a confirmation of what I already knew.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     Actually no, images were downloaded to me as I was being pulled back.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Spiritual Gaianism

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There was a man. I could not see his face, but he had brown hair of shoulder length and a brown beard to his collarbone. He was dressed almost like Ancient Greek of Roman robes of white with a red sash.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I saw a man. I do not know who he was.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     More like the feeling of 'here I go again'.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     It is hard to describe. But since this happened, there was another moment last month that I was in a bright room, and there were doctors there, and blood was coming from my breast. They told me I had Stage 4 breast cancer in my right breast, but not to worry, as they were going to heal me. The next day this bothered me. I always check my breasts since the lumps were found; and after my surgery to make sure the fluid were normal. But the day after this 'dream' happened, I checked my breast and sure enough, it felt like I had just had surgery all over again and there was brown fluid that was expressed from that same breast.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God does not exist  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     As I said, information was downloaded to me but I do not know how to access the information.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I knew. This was just a doorway, and I knew I could use this doorway anytime I wanted. It was MY doorway, MY tunnel. Although I was curious as to what was on the other side, and even though the Man seemed scared that I was slipping backward, I still felt the smile on my face, I was not scared. I am no longer scared of my own path, just scared of what situation may be my last. But I'm not scared about the journey.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     You are not alone, nor will this be the last of you. You have lived before and shall live again if you choose. Do not fear asking for help. You are watched, you are protected, and there are Watchers in human-form also living with you, though they do not remember who they are or what they are during their waking hours. They watch over the children. They will always watch over the children, no matter what religion the children worship. Children need something in which to believe. Do not ever judge what a child believes. But the Watchers will not get involved in the children's wars. They are not allowed. If the children wish to fight in the schoolyard, so be it. What is important is the protection of the planet and ALL the children. There are no favorites.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       I have become more aware that my caring too much was actually harming me. I had to try to step back and let others live their life lessons. I guide, but keep out of it until I am needed. My intuition is much stronger. The spirits yell at me in a high-pitched squeal that I cannot understand and it is very painful.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes While in the tunnel, I was at peace. But now, I am being faced with people from my past that I thought I got rid of, I feel angry. I am not an angry person, but I am angry and frustrated. I know where I am supposed to be, but I am not there nor do I know how to get there.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of th

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am an empath and an energy medium, which I know I have been given these gifts to heal but need to learn how.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The almost fear from the man who reached out to me. Also, the information I need help opening.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right as soon as my fiancÃ©e and daughter were brought to me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Documentaries

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It's been months and I still remember every detail.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   All I have to do is think about it and I can feel the peace.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathrine_d_probable_nde.html