{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathleen_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathleen M NDE 4996","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathleen M NDE 4996  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kathleen M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2579 Kathleen M NDE 4996  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Meanwhile my stomach was bloating more and I started having chest pains, I told them I needed help I was having a heart attack. They called in a bunch of doctors who were crowded around my bed, giving me nitro and deciding what was happening (I guess). I kept telling them it hurt and I was going to die - they asked me whom they should call. 

At some point, I remember looking through what seemed to be a big window and I was on the outside. There were lots of people mulling around, some together, some by themselves. No one spoke or looked my way. None was close to me.  They were all far away, and they were all like black shadows of people, there were a few trees and grass, but the only colors I saw was a pink that covered all I looked at including the people. These people were neither happy nor sad but I didn't have any communication with them. When I came to it dawned on me that those were all of my loved ones who had gone before me, I wished that I could see them clearer and talk with them.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 2010 somewhere between the 4th and the 14th

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I had surgery, and should have been improving. Complications kept making my stay at the hospital more serious. The nurse had put a tube through my nose into my stomach because my stomach kept bloating up after surgery. She accidentally knocked the container that was on the wall and hooked to the tube down, which caused it to break. While the other nurse stood in the background (seemingly afraid to move). She picked up the container and put it back together. A comment I heard the one nurse make to the other, 'Doesn't this figure our first night left alone and this happens.' My life partner had passed away in 2002 of Alzheimer's. I remarried an old friend in 2004.  He had passed away two months before my illness.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe that was after the vision of the people, when I was thinking that the people I saw were all my relatives who had died before me and that I loved them. I am not sure now but I thought they were concerned for me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew whoever those people were they were not of this time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     What I saw were people walking, but I didn't see faces, because they were all black shadows with a pink haze covering all including them. Those were the only colors I saw.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was nothing to hear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I very well could have been in that tunnel, because around me there was no light, the only light I saw was off in the distance where all of those people were.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     As I saw these people in the distance walking around in the far off distance, not seeming to talk with one another, almost as if they were waiting for something.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was where the people were, not where I was. I felt I was looking through a window and all of the light was on the other side.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Just curious, why was I outside, but yet when I looked through the window they were the ones outside in a field of grass and trees. Confusion over why everything was shaded over with pink. Why weren't any of those people looking at me, why were they not talking with one another?  I did feel happy seeing all of my loved ones as they were all walking around. I knew I would get to see all of them again.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I didn't realize they were my loved ones that had died before me until after the vision or the picture or the dream was over. I couldn't get back to them.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I always believed in God and yes that would prove to me there is more after death.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I always believed in God and yes that would prove to me there is more after death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   They were walking and all seemed quiet but concerned, none were unhappy but none seemed happy either, there was no talking or banter. After, when I could no longer see them, I knew that there is more that was to come.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain My family has always been very important to me, but it was then that I realized I should make plans for when I am not around, for the sake of my children who seemed to unravel through this whole experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I believe realizing the people I saw were people in my past were an eye opening experience.  Also while watching them walk past one another in silence was curious to me.  What were they concerned about? Why didn't anyone look my way? Were they sad?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With my family a few weeks after I got home. Then I went to see this movie with a friend that I had never shared this with and I was floored when I saw almost the same setting as when I was having that experience. That's when I told my friend, 'Oh my God, look at that, how could that be? That was what happened to me when I was in the hospital.'

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I had heard of it and I had heard talk of a tunnel and extreme light, but this was not what I experienced.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I didn't mention it to my family until after I got home from the hospital. It didn't feel real or relevant until after I got home.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I felt it was real after I had told the kids about it, then when I saw the movie 'The Hereafter', I just could not imagine how they could have put my dream in their movie. That is when I was positive what I had seen was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Only that movie 'The Hereafter', that was almost a shock to me.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was an eye opening experience, although maybe not so great at the time.  When I was coming to, I saw a black nurse or doctor in my room on my right side, who accidentally knocked that container off the wall. They all seemed concerned and started cleaning up the mess, she noticed that the canister was not put together correctly and therefore was not draining me as it was supposed to which was causing the bloating and chest pains. Once the draining started the pains seem to subside and all seemed calmer.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathleen_m_nde.html