{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathleen_m_nde_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathleen M Probable NDE and NDE 8179","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathleen M Probable NDE and NDE 8179  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kathleen M Probable NDE and NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE and Probable NDE  						4270 Kathleen M Probable NDE and NDE 8179  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					1999

     					My son was induced 6 weeks early because I was having pregnancy complications.  I bled out and received enough blood transfusions to fill my body twice.  

  					I can remember being  out of body. I was looking down like I was an observer to someone else's trauma.  Nothing they did could bring me back.  I remember getting snapped out of that feeling when I heard my husband telling the doctors to bring my premature newborn to my side before taking me off to surgery to stop the bleeding.  My blood was replaced, surgery was done and I returned home with a nurse in 12 days. 

2001 

  					My daughter was scheduled to be born 4 weeks premature at a high-risk pregnancy center because of my previous problems with the birth of my son.  I had to have my gallbladder removed when I was 3 1/2 months pregnant with her.  She was born on 7/11/2001.  I only needed 2 bags of blood after childbirth.  

  					Later on 8/4/01, while at home I bled out again.  I was brought back to life while in the ambulance.  I am told they needed to pull over to the side of the road to attend to me.  At the hospital, I slipped unconscious again and into what I think of as 'a comforting place without pain'.  My blood was replaced and surgery was done.  I returned home in 10 days. 

2016

   					My son is 17 yrs old and 7' tall.  He has Asperger's and is the quirkiest, smartest young man and still my sweet Valentine.  My daughter is 15 years old and 6' tall. She is a very gifted student, musician and artist.  She has a lot of compassion for others. 

  					I got divorced in 2012 after 18 years marriage.  I know my husband lived through these traumas with me, but he was better at forgetting them than I was.  A few years after my daughter was born, I was able to give blood again and I made sure I did it around my children's birthdates to give back the blood I received which saved my life.

Background Information:   

  Gender:	 Female

  Date NDE Occurred:	  2/14/99 & 8/4/01

  NDE Elements:   

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes.      CPR given.     Other: I bled out after childbirth in 1999 and 2001  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   Yes, I was in a lot of pain and then I removed myself from my body to be a spectator until I got shocked back to life.  
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I bled out and was in a lot of pain when the emergency room doctor had to use his hands to go up my female parts to clamp down on the bleeding.  After that my mind left my body.  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual.     Time went slower.  
  
Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision during the experience seemed fine at the time.  I was just looking over what was happening to me like it was someone else.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing during the experience was normal.  I could hear everything said.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Relaxed, uninvolved and pain free.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

  Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I felt like I was resting and above all the pains of the blood loss and surgeries. Then I heard my husband's voice begging the hospital staff to put my newborn son by my side so I could meet him for the first time.  I struggled to live.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me  

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic.   Non-practicing  
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me  

  What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic.   Non-practicing  
  
  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I don't think my NDEs have anything to do with religion. It only depends on the ambulance and the emergency room team to save a life.  
  
  Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now give blood because I received life-saving blood transfusions.  
  
Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown  

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Unknown     No       

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown  

Do you fear death after your experience?       Unknown  

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life  

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life  

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant  

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

ere you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others  

  During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Uncertain     I wanted to live to meet and love my newborn son.  
  
Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life       

  Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain. Divorced.  

After the NDE:   

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    

  Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I feel that claiming psychic gifts  is a scam.  
  
Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I was there and I know what I felt.  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Again, I was there and I know what I felt.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Dreams  

  Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think when you ask about alien or religious contact, you should divert the Yes and No answers to their appropriate input lines so someone who has no alien or religious ties can still give you detailed information about their experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathleen_m_nde_probable_nde.html