{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V9 1899-1900","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v9_1899-1900.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V9 1899-1900","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYOHIGAL
RESEARCH.
VOLUME IX.
1899—1900.
FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION AMONG MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES ONLY.
THE SoC1E'rY’s RooMs :
19, BUCKINGHAM STREET, ADELPHI, W.C.
-
' V"¢'
\’Z>o-L
No. CLV.—VOL. IX. JANuARY 1899.
S03’ '
Y. 3
oF THE
-SE lRCH
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RE + 1 .
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. .. 1
Meeting of the Council 2
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. 3
An Inquiry Concerning Sudden Moral Transformations .. 5
Note on a Case in the Archiv fiir Religions Wissenschaft 6
Correspondence :—
Experiments in Thought-Transference .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 9
Mr. Podmore’s Review of Mr. Lang's “The Making of Religion” .. .. .. II
Cases 12
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Jlfembers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
CORRESPONDING MEMBER.
PRoFEssoR TH. FLoURNoY, The University, Geneva.
MEMBER AND ASSOCIATES.
ARMsTRoNG, MIss C. M., 31, Hereford-square, London, S.W.
BEAN, REv. Enwm, M.A., The School House, Brentwood.
CUFFE, HoNBLE. OTWAY F. S., 23, Cambridge-street, London, WV.
GUINNEss, Muss, Tibradden, Rathfarnham, Dublin.
HEWITT, MRs., Southernhey, Knighton, Leicester.
JERvIs, MRs., 30, Ladbroke-square, London, W.
LEoPQLD, DR. H. M.,' S, Verversdyk, Delft, Holland.
LoGAN, MIss IsABEL, 6, Richmond-terrace, VVhitehall, London, S.W.
MIERs, RoNALD H. M. C., LIEUT., c/o Messrs. Cox and Co., 16, Charing
Cross, London, SW’.
MoN1'EBELLo, LA DUCHEssE DE, 0/o H. Olliver, Esq., 30, Rue Boissiere,
Paris.
MURRAY, OsWAL1), Rose Croix, Alumhurst-road, Bournemouth.
SELoUs, Mus , Leuﬁeld, Gibson’s Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Sutton, Mt'S., 49, I.exham-gardens, London, W.
WVIsE, MIss, Shrubland Hall, Leamington.
2 Joumnal of Society for Psychical Resewr-ch. [JAN., 1899.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BIGELoW, A. E., First National Bank, New Hampton, Iowa.
BREWsTER, EDWIN T., Andover, Mass.
CLARK, MIss F. BENITA, 578, East 60th-street, Chicago, Ill.
CLARKE, MIss REBECCA S., Norridgewock, Maine.
CooLIDGE, MRs. J. T., JUNE., 114, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
DENTQN, MIss JANE A., Palo Alto, Cal.
DRAPER, GEoRGE OTIs, Hopedale, Mass.
HoFFMAN, PRoF. F. S., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.
JUDAH, NoBLE B., 2,701, Prairieavenue, Chicago, Ill.
KEMPToN, C. W., c/o Percy B. McCoy, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
KENNEDY, HARRIs, M.D., Readville, Mass.
MARsoN, W. G., 31], Sykes Block, Minneapolis, Minn.
MILLs, REv. BENJ. FAY, 22, Cypress-street, Brookline, Mass.
MosLEY, PRoF. J. B., Mercer University, Macon, Ga.
PAXsoN, W. L., c/o Messrs. Baker and Hamilton, San Francisco, Cal.
PRICE, MIss LAvENIA, 815, W. 13th-street, Des Moines, Iowa.
REIEE, JosIAH C., 247, 5th-avenue, New York, N.Y.
'SCoTT, PRoF. W. H., Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.
SUMNER, FRANCIs B., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
TRALLEs, WILLIAM A., 1,189, VVest-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
VVAINWRIGHT, MRs. VV. P., 121, Newbury—street, Boston, Mass.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council was held on December 9th at the
Westminster Town Hall, the President in the chair. There were also
present Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. F. Podmore, and Dr. G. F. Rogers.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
On the proposal of Mr. F. W, H. Myers, Professor Th. Flournoy,
of Geneva, was elected a Corresponding Member of the Society for the
ensuing year.
One new Member and thirteen new Associates were elected; and
‘the election of twenty-one new Associates of the American Branch
was recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
It was agreed, at the request of Mr. Henry A. Roome, that his
name should be transferred from the list of Members to that of
Associates.
The Council recorded with regret the decease of the Rev. Alfred
Gurney, respecting whom a notice appeared in the last number of the
Journal; and also of Mr. Sydney J. Murray, who had been an
Associate of the Society for some years.
JAN., 1899.] General Meeting. 3
The resignation of one Member and eleven Associates, who, from
various causes, desired to withdraw from the Society at the end of the
year, was accepted. It was agreed to strike off the list the names of
eight Associates, whose connection with the Society had become merely
nominal.
Two presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was accorded to the donors.
In consequence of the large demand for Part XXXIII. of the
Proceedings, containing Dr. Hodgson’s further Report on Mrs. Piper’s
Trance-Communications, it was agreed that it be reprinted. It was
also agreed that Part XVII., containing the ﬁrst Reports on Mrs.
Piper’s case, be reprinted; the stock of that Part also being nearly
exhausted.
The names of the Members of the Council who retire by rotation
at the end of the year were read over. The Assistant Secretary was
desired to send out the necessary notices for the Annual Meeting of
the Members of the Society to be held at Westminster Town Hall, on
Friday, January 27th, 1899, at 3 p.m.
Other matters of business having been attended to, the Council
agreed that its next meeting should be at the Westminster Town
Hall, at the close of the Annual Meeting of Members, on January
27th, 1899.
GENERAL ME ETING.
The 96th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, December 9th, at 4 p.m.; the PREsIDENT
in the chair.
MR. H. ARTHUR SMITH read his paper entitled: “A Note on
Fisher’s Ghost.”
MR. F. W. H. MYERs read a paper by PRoFEssoR VV. RoMAINE
NEWBoLD, of the University of Pennsylvania, entitled: “A Further
Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance.”
Both these papers are included in Proceedings, Part XXXIV.
MRs. FIsHER remarked that the confusion between two doctors of
the same name,* recorded in the paper which Mr. Myers had read,
recalled to her mind a curious incident in her own experience which
had always puzzled her, and which she thus described :~
I was at a large meeting of Stuart Cumberland’s, in a country town.
Being asked to experiment with him in carrying out a suggestion
previously written down, I wrote on a piece of paper—“Take Miss F.’s
fan and give it to Miss G.,” and gave it to the chairman. I placed
* See Proceedings, Part XXXIV., p. 21.
. 4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN.,1899.
my ﬁngers on Mr. Cumberland’s shoulder, and he walked at a rapid
rate past the Miss F. I had in my mind, to another part of the room,
where her younger half-sister of the same name, who had come in un
known to me with other friends, was sitting. He took her fan and
gave it rightly to Miss G. Thus he carried out the letter of my wish
but not the spirit. It was as if he was guided simply by the name in
my mind. Yet I ascertained that he was quite a stranger to these
sisters, and did not even know their names, having merely come to
the town in the course of a provincial tour.
Before reading Professor Newbold’s paper, Mr. Myers made some
remarks to the following purport :—
Through the kindness of Professor Bichet, I have been present (on
December 1st and 3rd) at two séances held at his house in Paris with
Eusapia Paladino. The phenomena witnessed were absolutely con
vincing to all present. Some account of them may probably shortly
appear in the Journal. But a few words seem to be due from me at
once to my previous colleagues in experiment on the ile Roubaud.
Some of my audience may remember that in 1894 Professor Lodge, Dr.
Ochorowicz and I, by the invitation of Professor Richet, witnessed,
along with him, some séances with Eusapia in his Mediterranean island,
—a place well adapted for such experiments. We were all of us con
vinced of the supernormal character of certain phenomena then observed;
and Eusapia was invited to England for the following summer. She
stayed in my house at Cambridge, July 30th—Sept. 16th, 1895, and
met a varying group of observers, most of whom began with a pre
disposition in her favour. The phenomena, although inferior to those
of the ile Roubaud, at ﬁrst seemed promising; but a peculiar and
suspicious holding of one of Eusapia’s hands—described by Professor
Richet in l893,—was frequently noted, from ﬁrst to last, by different
observers. When Dr. Hodgson arrived, (August 29th), we were able
(mainly owing to his acumen) to detect and observe the actual pro
cesses of trickery ; and thus to explain, not indeed all the phenomena,
but so large a proportion of them that it seemed very improbable that
the unexplained residue was due to any supernormal power. .
The general justice of this verdict has now been conﬁrmed by
statement volunteered to Professor Richet in my hearing during a
trance of Eusapia’s on December 3rd, by her trance-personality or
“control,” to the eﬁ'ect that Eusapia did cheat at Cambridge.
For the four above-mentioned observers the question then arose as
to the effect of this fresh experience on our interpretation of what we
had seen on the ile Roubaud. Dr. Ochorowicz and Professor Richet,
while seeing nothing improbable in the occurrence of fraud at
JAN., 1899.] Concerning Sudden Moral Tran1.sformati0ns. 5
Cambridge, refused to accept it as an explanation of those previous
phenomena. Professor Lodge, while himself noting and admitting
fraud at Cambridge, also held that it could not account for the
ile Roubaud phenomena, taken as a whole. I was myself the most
inﬂuenced of the four by Dr. Hodgson’s arguments; and my strong
conviction of his superior acumen, while not removing my former belief
wholly from my mind, led me to feel and say that I could not ask any
one else to found a belief in Eusapia upon my own records and
recollections. What has recently occurred in Paris leads me again to
place more conﬁdence in my own impressions on the island, and
especially on the skill and judgment of my then coadjutors. I now
feel assured that a part of what occurred on the island was genuine;
and therefore that my then colleagues have been justiﬁed in their con
tinued attribution of a supernormal character to some of the
phenomena previously observed.
AN INQUIRY CONCERNING SUDDEN MORAL
TRANSFORMATIONS.
[The following appeal is from Professor Leuba, Ph.D., the well-known
American psychologist. As he is travelling on the Continent, we have
consented to receive for the present the responses which may be sent, and
perhaps to print any which may seem to throw light upon the supposed
action of supernormal agencies in effecting these sudden shocks.—ED.]
More or less remarkable moral transformations have been known to
happen suddenly under various agencies,— generally spiritual, but some
times merely physical. When the Christian religion is looked upon
as its agency, the moral renovation is called conversion; but similar
transformations take place outside of its pale, within spiritualistic
circles and elsewhere.
Some of them partake almost of the miraculous by their sudden
ness and their depth ; they seem to reach down to the bottom of life,
to transform the very foundations of character. And yet, despite the
paramount, practical as well as theoretical, importance for humanity
of some exact knowledge on the causes and conditions of these
renovations, nothing very deﬁnite is known.
The writer is endeavouring to collect data on this subject; with
that end in view, appeal is made to all those who have, under any
inﬂuence whatsoever, experienced a moral transformation remarkable
in any degree, in the hope that they will not be deterred from answer
ing by lack of time or sheer inertia. Such persons will remember that
6 _ Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1899.
they alone are able to furnish the desired information. Appeal is
also made to those who have heard of such occurrences, or who are
acquainted with valuable literature bearing on the subject, that they
may let the writer know about them.
The answers will be considered as strictly private communications.
1. When did your moral transformation take place? How old
were you at the time?
2. In what religious circle were you brought up?
3. Describe your life, your religious condition, and your moral
struggles for the period preceding your renovation. Were you at peace
with yourself? If not, why not? What did you want? Did you
endeavour to reform? Did you hope for a transformation? VVhat did
you do to that end? What measure of success attended your efforts?
4. Where, on what occasion, and under what circumstances were
you changed? In what mental and in what moral disposition were
you at the time? What was the state of your health? What is your
temperament ?
5. Relate your transformation. What were the various thoughts
in your mind, and the various feelings in your heart at the moment?
What affected you most deeply? Were you very much moved? By
what, or by whom were you moved? Did you notice any thing
apparently miraculous? What was, in your opinion, the cause of
your renovation?
6. Describe your feelings and your thoughts immediately after.
In what particulars had you become changed? What was temporary
and what permanent in the results of your experience?
7. If you have passed through more than one similar experience,
describe each one separately, giving date of each.
8. Give name, sex, age, nationality, church connection, and occupa
tion, and send the answers to Professor James H. Leuba, c/o the
Editor of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research, 19,
Buckingham Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
4
NOTE ON A CASE IN THE ARCHIV FUR RELIGIONS
WISSENSCHAFT.
BI). 1. HFT. 3., HERAUsGEGEBEN v. DE. THs. ACHELIs IN BEEMEN.
VoRLAG voN J. C. B. MoHR, FREIBURG I. B.
This is an article by Fr. S. Krauss on the Yoga-trance among southern
Slavs. The sub-title, “a Guola-Song,” indicates the substance of it. A few
observations on phenomena similar to that which is the subject of this very
interesting popular ballad are given by way of introduction.
JAm, 1899.] Case in Arehiv Religions Wissenschaft. 7
A distinction, says Krauss, is usually made between those functions which
are under the inﬂuence of the will, and those which are not; and it is usually
taken to be absolute. I can, it is said, put my arm or my tongue to any use
I like, but I cannot suspend at my will the action of the liver, or the circula
tion of the blood. Krauss contends that the distinction is not absolute. In
the ﬁrst place, there are cases in which muscles not generally supposed to be
under the inﬂuence of the will, may be set in motion as the subject wishes.
Krauss tells an entertaining story of a schoolfellow of his who aroused the
envy of all his friends by a very peculiar gift : he could do anything he liked
with his ears ; another friend could give the most varied expressions to his
face by contractions of the eye-muscles, impossible for any one else.
In the same way some exceptional people can feel or not feel, according
as they please. Such was the case of another schoolfellow who would bear
the most severe ﬂoggings without any sign of pain. However, it is not clear
whether the boy felt, or merely hid his feelings, for Krauss, comparing him
to an Indian fakir says : “ The only difference is that the fakir conceals his.
pain from religious motives,” whereas the school-boy did so merely to score
off his master. Other people can go without food for a very long time, and
apparently have some power over the digestive functions. But the most
interesting are those who can suspend their heart-beats and fall into the
Yoga-trance. This is a very complicated art : Krauss does not believe it has
anything to do with mesmerism, or auto-suggestion.
Instances.
(a) A certain Frau H. F. (whose full name and address Krauss is in a.
position to give) is able to completely simulate death whenever she likes,
and so perfectly as to take in the most experienced medical men or hospital
nurses. (This case occurs at Vienna.)
(b) At the 1895 exhibition held at Buda-Pesth there were two Indian
fakirs who undertook to fast and sleep publicly. Various experiments were
made on them by some of those who came to see them ; needles were stuck
into them, burning matches applied to their ﬂesh ;—they bore all this during
the day-time ; but it was more than they had bargained for. At night they
awoke and gave vent to their opinions as to European civility : they
strengthened themselves by eating and drinking against the expected trials
of the following day. Some one found them out one night, and they were
set down for frauds and cheats. One of them protested against this accusa
tion in the Nette Freie Presse (8th August, 1895), and expressed himself as.
follows : “The Yoga-sleep is a science, which, like all other sciences, may
be learnt both in theory and practice by any people who have a gift for it.”
Of course, the word science need not be taken strictly—at any rate the
testimony of the fakir is of some importance as a great presumption that this
peculiar state is self-induced.
(c) This art has had devotees in Europe : in the year 1845 the prophet
Milija Krajinoe began to make manifestations in the village of Sumpfe. He
was able to fall into a kind of ecstasy or trance and remain in the same state
for 5, 6, or 12 days together, neither eating, nor drinking, nor satisfying any
physical wants. There is a document in the archives of the Royal Serbian.
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1899.
Ministry for Home Affairs dealing with the question. Dr. Medovic observed
Milija in his trance, noted down the appearance of his body, and recorded
the tortures he went through without complaining; all attempts to wake
him were fruitless ; the most intense smells were put under his nose,
hairs pulled one by one out of the tendercst part of the skin; red-hot
coals laid on his limbs. All these he bore: however, one test seemed to
have some effect. ¥Vhen they poured down his throat something to make
him vomit, he asked for a drink of water. It was then that he confessed
how he had learnt by degrees, ﬁrst of all to go without food so that he could
remain 20 or 30 days without any nourishment whatever ;—there is some
irony in the_prophet's confession that he began it all so as to earn a para
or two from the common people. But although he says : “you might tear
the ﬁesh piece-meal off my limbs, and I wouldn’t give any sign of suffering,
so well am I able to bear pain,” this is a rather ambiguous statement: it
is diﬂicult to say whether Milija felt the pain, or whether he had become
insensible.
But the most striking instance of all is that of the hero of the “ Gusler
lied.” The noble Radovan, son of Knight George, and nephew of the
Venetian promeditor of Zang, would simulate death, and have a great
reputation for it. Krauss, in bringing forward this “ historical” instance,
says that Radovan had this gift in the most healthy and strong period of his
youth—he was a far-famed knight, a fearless warrior, etc., all which circum
stances forbid us in Krauss’ view to believe him hysterical. But when we
remember that Radovan lived 250 years ago, any discussion of his state of
mental or physical health will appear futile. The evidence of popular
tradition can have no scientiﬁc weight ; but although it would be extremely
rash to draw deﬁnite conclusions from the ballad concerning the scientiﬁc
merits of Radovan’s Yoga-trance, I can heartily recommend the reading of
it to all who are interested in “ Volksgesang,” as a valuable, and, I believe,
representative example of the large collection of popular songs in Eastern
Europe.
I need not, for the purposes of the S.P.R., tell the long story over again;
it is suﬂicient to say that Radovan fell into the hands of a king who had
reason to wish him out of the way. He was shut up in a dark prison; but
he planned a very original escape, which is not generally thought of by
modern ﬁction-writers. He simulated death in the hope that he would be
carried out of prison. Unfortunately, he had played this trick before; un
fortunately, also, the king had a very cunning and a very relentless wife who
would not believe Radovan was dead. The two of them put him to all kinds
of tortures ; they drove splinters under his ﬁnger and toe~nails ; they singed
him with red-hot coals. He does not even wink, the king is fairly bafﬂed.
But that cunning queen has all the malice of the Tempter. Radovan’s
crime, I may say, was that he loved and was loved by the beautiful daughter
of this treacherous pair. The queen brought a bevy of fair maidens into the
prison, among them Radovan’s “Geliebte." They sing and dance round
him, but even under such a trial Radovan manages to remain dead, until the
princess trips up to him, and he can keep his eyes closed no longer. The
.T.\N., 1899.] Correspondence. 9
princess was in the secret, and knew quite well her knight was not dead
past recalling; this explains her composure. Happily the king and queen
did not see Radds eyes open ; but the queen is still relentless, the only way.
she can see of killing him off once for all is to trust some faithful servants
with his body, send them to the sea-shore in secret, instruct them to tear up
his limbs, and throw them piece-meal into the waves. Need I say that her
hellish project falls through ; that Radovan escapes, that he conquers all the
enemies, and clears all the obstacles, that stood between him and his true love?
There is no lack of incident, it will be seen, in this entertaining ballad ;
interesting as it is, however, to the student of literature, we can but regret,
from our point of view as scientiﬁc judges, that popular tradition has played
so fast and loose with the evidence. The fact remains, however, and it is of
some importance, that Radovan was believed to be able to simulate death.
F. N. H.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions e:1:prcssed by Correspondents]
EXPERIMENTs IN THoUGHT-TRANsFERENCE.
Tour de Peilz, N0vember 14th, 1898.
DEAR SIR, -—I have been much interested by Prof. Chattock’s experi
ments in thought-transference, all the more on account of its being the ﬁrst
set of transferred diagrams since those published by me in the Journal.
I beg to submit that my own experiments [see Journal, S.P.R., June. 1893,
and December, 1896.—Eo.] were far more successful, although made at a
distance of hundreds of miles and without any knowledge by the percipient
of the kind of diagrams I was going to send. And I think I can point out
one or two reasons of that difference in the results obtained.
Prof. Chattock says that “ the percipient knew in each case what sort of
a thing was to be drawn—e.g. a number of three ﬁgures, a word of three letters,
three musical notes, etc.”
There, I believe, was the mistake. The percipient, knowing beforehand
that a given number of letters or notes would be sent. could not but try to
guess, his mind entering into action, and that would, of course, prevent him
from giving his undivided attention to the message sent. The percipient’s
'mind must remain in a passive state, and his inward vision a perfect blank,
in a state of expectation.
Prof. Chattock says, moreover, that, after one or two trials, “one gets self
conscious and excited” and that the experiments fail accordingly.
The reason is to be found, ﬁrst in the fact that both agent and percipient
were in the same room, unconsciously inﬂuencing and exciting each other,
-secondly, from their having attempted more than one experiment at a time.
Complete solitude is necessary, and the quiet of a secluded room, both for
'the agent and for the recipient. When I experimented with Mrs. M., I
was alone in my room, and so was she. And it had been agreed that before
beginning the séance, we should both rest from all labour, and remain quiet
for at least a quarter of an hour, in order to meet the trial with a self
possessed and calm frame of mind.
10 Journal of Society for Psych/ical Research. [JAN., 1899.
Again, it was always late at night, ten o’clock usually, at a time when
all noises have been hushed and silence prevails everywhere. And it was.
understood also that I would never send more than one message at a time.
A statement made by Professor Chattock has greatly struck me. He
says (p. 303) : “ It occurs to me that the percipient should be in a partially
dazed state. . . . Is there any convenient way of keeping oneself in
such a condition ? I thought of watching a slowly revolving disc.”
Taking for granted, in my defective knowledge of the English language,
that dazed means benumbed, I should say that Professor Chattock seems to
have hit on one of the fundamental conditions of thought-transference, only
that I think this condition of being in a dazed, half-sleepy state should apply
to the agent as well.
As far as I can see in that mysterious phenomenon, the transference takes.
place between the subliminal selves of agent and percipient. It is the
unconscious portion of our complex being that is in constant communication
with others, while our conscious activity tends to divide us from our fellow
beings. As if there were a common ground of psychical life, out of which
each individuality shoots up. The more we sink our personality into the
unconscious substratum of life, the nearer we get to others, and the greater
the possibility of communicating with them.
Coming back to my own experiments. I have to say that I used to write
my message on a large piece of paper, to put it in a strong light, and to look
at it ﬁxedly for ﬁve or ten minutes, till I was sometimes half dazed. On her
part, Mrs. M., lying on her couch, three or four hundred miles from me,
would remain with her eyes shut, waiting and waiting, till her hand would
almost unconsciously trace on the paper the ﬁgures or diagrams appearing
on her retina. She was generally in a state of drowsiness, half hypnotic,
half normal, and pretty often she wrote at the bottom of the page, “I am
so sleepy, that I can hardly ﬁnish the drawing." And sometimes, she even
fell asleep before having seen anything, in which case, of course, the result
was nought.
I believe moreover that our very remarkable success may be due to the
fact that there was between us, perhaps, a kind of psychical bond. During
one summer, while in Switzerland, she had suffered from insomnia, and, I
used to go at night with my daughter to her bedside, and to send her to
sleep by suggestion.
Speaking of my daughter, it reminds me that I have tried thought-trans
ference with her pretty often, at a distance of many miles, with some amount
of success. And this I have noticed, that in order to have any result I had to
be the agent, my daughter the percipient. If we reversed the order, I
being the percipient, we never could get anything satisfactory, and it was the
same with Mrs. M.
It seems that different qualities of mind are required for playing the
different parts. Mr. Wedmore’s statement (p. 304) “My sister could not
receive from me and I cannot do so from my brother,” conﬁrms that notion.
The possibility of the transference of thoughts or images from one mind
to another has now been proved, I think, suﬂiciently. It remains that the
JAN., 1899.] Correspondence. 11
conditions in which it does take place should be thoroughly investigated,
and, if possible, the rules of this process accurately exposed. We should not
rest satisﬁed till we have found the means of corresponding with our friends,
at whatever distance, without pen and paper, and even without the help of
Marconi’s wireless telegraph. In this order of phenomena, the geographical
distance counts for nothing ; the only distance to be abolished is that
between the minds.—Yours truly,
AUG. GLARDoN.
MR. PoDMoRE’s REvIEW oF MR. LAnds “THE MAKING oF RELIGIoN.”
St. Petersburg, December 7th, 1898.
DEAR. SIR,—I have read with interest Mr. Podmore’s review of Mr. A.
Lang’s The Making of Religion in Proceedings XXXIV. and especially his
refutation of some of the criticisms passed by Mr. Lang on Mr. Podmore’s
most valuable work Studies in Psychical Research.
Much of what he says is no doubt quite correct, and no one deplores
more than myself the apparent inability of the agency at work in mediumistic
manifestations to supply proofs and tests convincing to the scientiﬁc mind ;
and what are we to say of those critics who, after persistently demanding
evidence of this character, deliberately shut their eyes when something of
the kind is really offered them, and pass on ?
With all respect to Mr. Podmore I submit that this is precisely the
attitude he is maintaining toward the “ Physical Phenomena ” of Spiritualism,
as the following examples will show.
No doubt a “balance moving in a locked glass case” (Proceedings
XXXIV., p. 138) would be good (why not Sir Wm. Crookes’s experiment
on movements of “ a pendulum enclosed in a glass case ﬁrmly cemented to
the wall” ?) but ought not the upsetting of objects in a room with doors and
windows closed and sealed be equally, or almost equally, good. Now this has
been done by one investigator at least, who is a corresponding member of
the S.P. R. besides; viz., Dr. Dariex, of Paris (see Proceedings VII., p. 197);
in that case the objects upset being chairs, the room being Dr. D’s own ; the
experiments being watched by a committee of friends. And yet in his above
mentioned work Mr. Podmore entirely ignores the case in question, quite
regardless of the fact that it ought to come within the limits of what he
considers a “ test-case.” '
Another example. Sir Wm. Crookes’s experiment with Mrs. Fay (with
the medium’s hands grasping two wires attached to a battery) has always
been regarded as a most conclusive one, even by those who—like myself—do
not wish to press any incidents in the career of so suspicious a medium as
evidentially cogent. Now what does Mr. Podmore do? He mentions the
case in question, but does not even attempt the ghost of an explanation,
which is still more illogical than ignoring it altogether. (Studies in
Psychical Research, page 62.)
Again, it is all very well to speak about the desirability of obtaining
independent writing in securely locked slates or hemetically sealed glass
tubes. To my mind (and why not to Mr. Podmore’s ?) a few words, written
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1899.
“independently” by a slate pencil,without any locks or seals but in full view,
would be just as convincing, if not more. For there is nothing like seeing
for oneself ! Well, cases of the kind do exist. Professor Elliott Coues and
Mr. WilliaIn. Emmette Coleman, of San Francisco, have testiﬁed in print*
to obtaining “direct” writing under such conditions. Why their evidence
should be absolutely ignored in a work which pretends to deal with all
scientiﬁc testimony to the “Physical Phenomena” of Spiritualism is a
riddle I am unable to solve. Here are two gentlemen of scientiﬁc eminence,
one of them, a member of the S.P.R., (Mr. Coleman) widely known as an
exposer of mediumistic frauds (surely a circumstance of some weight!)
who come forward and say that, when sitting with a particular medium, they'
have repeatedly seen the pencil write of itself upon the slatc—whether
partly held under the table or simply in the medium’s hand without any .
table at all being used ; and that in this way intelligible messages were
obtained. Well—they may say what they like, in a scientiﬁc work which
precisely discusses independent slate-writing at length, their testimony is not
so much as hinted at !
I might adduce other instances of slate-pencils visibly writing ; in various
articles printed in the Religio-Philosophic Journal for 1891, Mr. Coleman
mentions other similar cases ; and I have reason to believe that in his
opinion genuine “ psychography ” still occurs in Mrs. Francis’s presence up
to the present day. I might also refer Mr. Podmore to a letter by “ Harry
Allis” (a well-known writer on the staff of the Journal des Débats now
deceased) printed in Dr. P. Gibier’s L’Analyse des Chases, who speaks of
witnessing something of the kind with Henry Slade ; but I do not lay stress
on any case but Dr. Coues’s as distinctly conclusive of a really supernormal
character.
Well, with such instances before us of the treatment some of the evidence
for “ Physical Phenomena” has received at Mr. Podmore’s hands, we may
be justiﬁed in thinking that in other cases too his attitude, though at ﬁrst
sight, perhaps, less unj ustiﬁable, has in fact also been but little in accordance
with actual events, and in any case the fact of his having completely ignored
in Studies in Psychical Research some of the phenomena which approach his
evidential standard the nearest, should certainly detract something from the
value of his more recent criticisms.—I am, Yours very truly.
MICHAEL PETRovo-SoLovovo.
CASES.
G. 260.
The following case, though doubtful of interpretation, appears not
without interest. The important fact about it is the double experi
ence, each independently veriﬁed. As Mr. C—— suggests, however,
* Rcligio-Philosophic Journal, February 27th, 1892 (“ Independent Slate-Writing
a Fact in Nature,” by Professor Cones), and a few weeks later, Mr. Coleman’s
corToboration.
JAN., 1899.] Cases. 13
it appears possible that a purely natural cause can be advanced, an
attempt at burglary in a room that might possess a secret entrance,
although a burglar might have done better to take the jewellery from
the dressing-table before feeling under the sleeper’s pillow. Nothing
further has transpired concerningr any past history or future experience
in the hotel in question.
Mrs. C
Having lately returned from the Tyrol, I venture to send you a strange
and unpleasant incident which occurred to me at a hotel on the Italian side
at ——. We had written for a room, but, on arrival, the landlord apolo
gised rather unnecessarily for taking us to a room on the second ﬂoor, in
what seemed the older part of the building. Our room was at the end of a
corridor, but the entrance door opened in a sort of lobby projecting into the
room. In the recess or alcove formed by this projection stood the two beds,
more than a yard apart, with a closed up door between, in front of which
were two night tables blocking the door. In the paper on the wall, between
my bed and the lobby, there were cracks as if a door had been closed up
there also, and there was another on the wall to the right as one entered
the room, behind a tall chest of drawers, also closed up. There were three
windows. I had gone to bed. How long I slept I don’t know, but I woke
up with a pull at my bedclothes, gentle, sudden, and decided, and a feeling
of something near me. I then heard what seemed retreating footsteps
down the corridor. I called out to my husband that there was someone in
the room. (I should say the door had been locked and was found so in the
morning.) His answer was, “Nonsense! You have had a nightmare ”—
and he went asleep again. A short time afterwards (I again can‘t say how
long, but I had remained quite awake), my husband, in a very low voice,
said, “Are you awake’!! I think you are right." He got up, lighted the
candle, and examined every part of the room, looking under the beds, into
a wardrobe for ladies’ dresses next the third window, and tried the wall in
places where there seemed to be the secret doors. No thing or person was
found. He then told me he had felt what seemed to him a small hand softly
pushing under his right side and arms, and that he had some ditiiculty in
awaking and bringing his senses to bear. Not being easy I kept the candle
alight. My husband went to sleep again, but I endeavoured to remain awake.
However, I undoubtedly dozed off, and my next impression was that a soft
hand was pressing and feeling under my side and arm. Half awake and half
asleep, with a sense of suffocation, I called out “ Don’t ! Go away I ” I then
became quite conscious, and heard a very heavy tread overhead (there was no
ﬂoor above us), then a thud on the ﬂoor, and then dead silence. I fancied
also I heard a cart drive away in the distance. Morning was breaking. My
mind now seemed quite calmed as if all was over, and I'slept till we were
called. This might all, perhaps, be accounted for by ordinary nightmare,
but the curious fact is that we each of us had much the same experience, and
my husband was sufﬁciently struck to interrogate the landlord on what had
occurred, and asked if he knew of any event supposed to have taken place
writes as follows :
l~t Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1899.
on the premises-——this, needless to say, without any satisfactory reply. The
landlord was a young man, and had not been there many years. It does not
appear probable that anyone, either grown up or child, could well have
escaped from the room when my husband made his examination. He looked
under the beds ﬁrst. The doors referred to above had all been examined
before he retired. and were also blocked by furniture. There may have been
a trapdoor undiscovered. We left early in the morning, and there was no
time to make a further search. My husband had his watch and money under
his pillow, but all my few ornaments, rings, and watch were on the dressing
table.
Mr. 0 adds the following details :—
We had dinner as soon as we could, and went to our room almost directly
afterwards. I was asleep, I believe, before my wife got into bed. She
woke me up, saying, “ I think there is someone in the room.” I answered,
“ Nonsense, nightmare,” and went to sleep again. My next sensation, a
half-conscious one (I can’t say how long after), was that a small hand was
feeling against my right side, and being thrust very gently under it towards
my watch and purse under the pillow. (My face was outwards, towards
Mrs. C——’s bed.) I did not wake very readily, and I seemed to have an
effort in regaining my consciousness. As soon as I did get awake, I called
my wife by name, and in a low voice said, “ Are you awake ? I think you
are right.” I then got up, lit the candle, which was close to my side, and
searched the room, as described previously, without result. I told my wife
what I had fancied and felt, and then slept till just before we were called.
I was certainly tired and dined late, and should have said the whole was
the result of indigestion, but it is curious that, to a certain extent, we both
experienced the same sensations. Another and more probable solution is,
~that there may have been someone in the room—possibly a child ; but how
he got out of it while I lit my candle is beyond my comprehension, unless
he slid down from the window, which was open. Yet here again we were on
the second ﬂoor, and there was, as far as I can remember, no trellis work or
creepers against the house wall ; and supposing a burglar, he failed to take
away anything, although my wife had left her rings and other things on her
dressing-table. I know nothing about the house.
L. 01. 1110. Hypermnesic Dream.
The following case, received from Mrs. Wynford Philipps, 5, South
Eaton Place, S.W., belongs to a class of which we have printed at
different times several examples. The question is of course between
liypewnnesia and clairvoyance;—between a recollection emergent in
sleep of something subliminally noted during the waking search, and a
“clairvoyant excursion” during sleep, in which the lost object is for
the ﬁrst time discerned. The present case does not necessarily carry
us beyond the former alternative.
-JAN., 1899.] Cases. 15
Statement concerning the ﬁnding of a Brooch and Watch.
In the spring of 1896 I lost a gold half-hunter watch, attached to my
-dress by a small diamond brooch. The loss occurred as I was walking about
with friends in garden and stables of Lydsleys Haven, Pembrokeshire, be
tween 4.2O and 5 in the afternoon.
Soon after returning to the house I missed the watch and brooch, and as
I attached special value to them, we caused the whole garden, gravel walks,
and stables to be examined by a number of boys and men, and all the straw
in the stables to be carefully sifted. Still they could not be found.
That night I dreamed vividly that I saw the watch and brooch on the
very path that I had examined vainly myself, and which had been investi
_ gated by all the searchers. Next morning, immediately on waking, I remem
as my own.
bered the dream, and went straight to the place where the watch was lying,
half hidden by gravel. I at once told all in the house exactly what had
happened, and the signature of one of the witnesses is here appended as well
NoRA PHILIPPs.
I took an active part in the search, and heard the dream from Mrs.
Philipps before she went out in the morning.
A. C. HEWAT, Secretary.
1?. 259.
The following incident seems to have been carefully watched and
recorded, and to have been published, with names of guarantors,
immediately after the event. It is extracted from a pamphlet, entitled
Spiritualisme: Faits Curieuoc, par Paul Auguez, Dentu, Paris, l858:—
On December 10th, 1857, we addressed the following letter to M. Morin,
vice-president of the Société du Mesmérismc, asking him to keep the letter
-sealed until the complete fulﬁlment of the sad event of which we related the
prediction. The said prediction was as clearly expressed as it was wonder
ful in the extraordinary method of production. We retained a copy of this
letter word for word. The original, stamped with the postmark, has been
returned to us, after the veriﬁcation of its date and contents, under the
following circumstances :—
“ SIR,—About a year ago, after a fruitless experiment in hydromancy,*
-a young lady, who was with us making these experiments, suddenly saw a
very strange scene reﬂected on the polished surface of a glass into which she
had been looking a few minutes before.
“She saw, she said, a room containing two beds. In one of these she
-saw quite distinctly a sick person, whose distorted features betokened the
approach of death.
“ Around this bed were standing several people, amongst whom she could
distinguish a young woman and two children, all three dressed in black.
“ Being much astonished at this vision, and not knowing with what to
-connect it, we asked the experimenter if these persons were known to her.
" Divination by means of pictures, which are delineated in the water before the
eyes of the seer. '
16 Journal of Society for Psy/chical Re-search. [JAN., 1899.
She replied at once that the dying man seemed to her to be a friend of
ours, M. X., an employé in a government oﬂice, and that the three persons
dressed in black must be his wife and his two sons.
“ Although this appeared very strange, we did not attach much import
ance to the matter, for M. X. had a strong constitution, and at that time
was in good health.
“However, about three months ago—that is to say about nine months
after the vision of which we have given an account—M. X. was suddenly
attacked by acute bronchitis and congestion of the lungs ; but although his
illness was pronounced by the doctor to be rather serious, it did not cause
any great uneasiness.
“Then the fatal prediction came into our minds, and we were very
anxious about the condition of our friend, which became more and more
distressing.
“ A few weeks ago the disease assumed a more serious character, and as
the arrangement of the apartments in which he was living made it impossible
to nurse him eﬂiciently, he determined to take advantage of the privilege
attached to his position as government oﬂicial, and was moved to Val-de
Grzlce.
“ At the time of writing this letter, the invalid, ﬁnding himself somewhat
better, has just been taken to the house of a relation, where he hopes to
stay during his convalescence.
“ At the same time, the disease has not diminished in severity, although
it is stationary. This is how matters stand to-day, December 10th, 1857.
“ As far as we are concerned, however. the prediction is in some
measure fulﬁlled. Indeed, who would ever have thought that a young man,
in full strength, would, in such a short time, be in such a state as he is to
day? Who would have supposed that anyone who lived in such comfortable
circumstances as our unfo1tunate friend would be obliged by the force of
circumstances to have himself taken to a hospital ? Who could have fore
seen that his family, who had been seen dressed in black, should happen
just at that time to be in mourning for a relation who had died a short time
previously ?
“ We must add further that since M. X. was moved to the house of his
relation, after attempts to obtain communications by means of a table,
for several evenings, a message, giving the name of M. X., appeared
spontaneously. Among other things said, in reply to questions asked, were
the words :—‘ Death warning ! . ’
“ We heard later on that at the time when these manifestations occurred,
M. X. was lying in a state of lethargic stupor, in consequence of the doses
of opium given him to induce sleep.”
Paris, December 10th, 1857.
M. X. died a month after this letter was sent. It Was read by us in the
presence of MM. le Baron du Potet, Petit d’Ormoy and Morin, who, after
having considered all the circumstances, and having veriﬁed the date of the
post-mark, December 11th, certiﬁed that the details therein contained were
absolutely accurate.
No. CLVI.—VoL. IX. FEBRuARY, 1899.
JOURNAL
oF THE
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I7
Annual General Meeting of Members of the society .. .. .. .. .. .. 18
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 19
Colonel do Rochas’ Musical Sensitive .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2I
Correspondence :——
Mr. Podmore on Clairvoyance and Poltergeists .. .. .. .. .. .. 22
Mr. Podmore, Poltergeists, and Kindred Spirits .. .. . .. .. .. 30
Case .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 32
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Jlembers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are preﬁxed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
ALEXANDER N. AKsAKoF, 6, Nevsky-prospect, St. Petersburg.
PRoFRssoR W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.E., Kingstown, Co. Dublin.
PRoFmssoR HENRY SIDGWICK, Newnham College, Cambridge.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
BEEToN, MIss FLoRENCE, 2, Adamson-road, S. Hampstead, N.W.
Chrouschoff, Michel de, Binnbrooke Grange-road, Cambridge.
FosTER, MIss LUCY E., 42, Lexham-gardens, London, W.
GoRDoN, GEoRGE H., 1 Clare-road, Bristol.
GRIsT, REv. GoRDoN C., B.A., Church Cottage, Madresﬁeld, Malvern.
HoRSLEY, GEoRGE F., S. Peter’s Rectory, Walworth, London, SE.
Hoskins, Edmond 1., M.D., Surgeon-Major, Hammam Chambers,
67, Jermyn-street, London, S.W.
HYAMsoN, ALBERT M., Secretary’s Office, General Post Olﬁce, E.C.
ILIFFE, Mas, 13, Warnborough-road, Oxford.
Morell, Mrs. Wa1do., 5, Noel-street, Nottingham.
*ll/IURRAY, DoNALD, “ Morven,” Lane Cove-road, St. Leonards,
Sydney, N.S.W.
18 Jou/roml of Society for 1’syclmlcal Research. [Fm.. 1899.
MURRAY, HoN. MRs., 50, Grosvenor-gardens, London, S.W.
O’DoNNELL, ELLIoTT, Henley House School, St. John’s Wood, N.W.
SToRRAR, WM. M.. L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S. (ED.) 57, Hoghton-st., Southport.
THoMPsoN, MRs. EDMoND, 87, South Hill-park, Hampstead, N.VV.
THoRNToN, VV. M., M.Se. (Vict.), Durham College of Science, Newcastle
on-Tyne.
ToBY, ERNEsT G., 25, Canonbury-road, London, N.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BATEs, DR. MARY C., Exeter Chambers, Exeter-street, Boston, Mass.
CALLENDER, IRA S., Galesburg, Ill.
CHENEY, W. T., Box 184, Rome, Ga.
CRUFI‘, GEoRGE T.. 433, Shawmut-avenue, Boston, Mass.
DRAKE, MRs. A. J., Auburndale, Mass.
GIBIER, DR. PAUL, 313, West 23rd-Street, New York, N.Y.
LINDEsLEY, J., No. 200, Yokohama, Japan.
MoFFETT, F. L., 204, Flour Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn.
MooDY, HARRY L., 27, Crescent-street, Greenﬁeld, Mass.
RING, DR. ARTHUR H., Arlington Heights, Mass.
TAFFT, HENRY S., 174, Weybosset-street, Providence, R.I.
WALKER, JoHN A., Box D., Jersey City, N.Y.
WENDELL, B. B., Cazenovia, N.Y.
VVHI'r'rLEsEY, MILLs, 301, Chestnutavenue, Trenton, NJ.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS OF
THE SOCIETY.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society for
Psychical Research was held at the Westminster Town Hall on
January 27th, at 3 p.m., the President, Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.,
in the chair.
The Notice convening the Meeting was read.
The President said this was the third Annual General Meeting of
Members held since the incorporation of the Society in the autumn of
1895. In that time the Society has had a career of considerable
prosperity, whether judged by increase in number of members, or in
regard to the importance of the work done, and published in the
Froceedings. Of the six retiring Members of Council at the end of
1898, one, Col. Hartley, had been removed by death. A seventh
vacancy is also occasioned by the death of Mr. R. Pearsall Smith
early last year. The other ﬁve retiring members all offer themselves
Fm, 1899.] Meeting of the Council. 19
for reelection. Two other members had also been nominated. These
seven nominations being suﬁicient to ﬁll up the vacancies in the
elected Members of the Council, the President said that he had only
to declare that the following were duly elected Members of the
Council :—A. W. Barrett, M.B., J. Milne Bramwell, M.B., Professor
Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S., Mr. Frank Podmore, Professor H. Sidg
wick, Sir A. K. Stephenson, K.C.B., Q.C., and Professor J. J.
Thomson, F.R.S.
The President went on to say that he had before him an audited
statement of the Income and Expenditure during 1898, which would,
as usual, be printed in the Journal. The Auditor says in his
accompanying letter :—“ I have pleasure in again bearing testimony to
the good order in which your Secretary has kept the books, which I
havejust audited as to the year lS98.” The statement of Assets and
Liabilities at the end of 1898 showed an improvement in the position
of the Society during the year of about £70. This was in great
measure due to the increased sale of the P1-oceedings, outside the
Society, especially of Part XXXIII., containing Dr. Hodgson’s report
on Mrs. Piper.
In reference to the present position of the Society, the President
said that the total number of names of all classes on the list of the
Society on January 1st, 1898, was 911. The elections during the year
1898 had been 77. Against these were to be set 29 resignations,
16 removals by death, and 8 names struck off the list, of persons who
had been lost sight of, or who had become merely nominal members,
thus showing the number of the Society at the commencement of the
present year to be 935.
A considerable number of elections took place during the year in
the American Branch, but owing to deaths and resignations at the
close of 1898, the net result is a gain of one, increasing the number to
415. It is, however, satisfactory to note that the slight diminution of
the previous year has not continued.
The President invited remarks from members present. A member
made an inquiry as to the “ Second Sight Fund,” which was replied_to.
There being no further response, the President declared the meeting
-closed.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the close of the Annual General Meeting above
reported. The President, Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., occupied the
-chair. There were also present, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. St. George
20 Journal of Society for Peychical Research. [FEB., 1899.
Lane Fox Pitt, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Dr. C.
Lloyd Tuckey, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
Report was made that the Annual General Meeting had been held,
and that Members of Council had been elected as stated above.
Sir William Crookes, F. R.S., was re-elected President of the
Society for the ensuing year.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith was re-elected as Hon. Treasurer, and Mr.
F. W. H. Myers as Hon. Secretary, and Mr. Arthur Miall as Auditor
for the ensuing year.
On the proposal of the President, Professor W. F. Barrett and
Professor H. Sidgwick were elected Honorary Members of the Society;
and on the proposition of Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. Alexander N.
Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, was also elected an Honorary Member.
On the proposal of Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. Donald Murray, of
New South Wales, was elected an Hon. Associate for the current
year.
The following were co-opted as Members of Council for the ensuing
year :—Mr. St. George Lane Fox Pitt, Dr. R. Hodgs_on, Mr. Registrar
Hood, Dr. G. F. Rogers, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The Hon. E. Feilding and Mr. J. G. Smith were proposed for
co-optation on the Council at its next Meeting.
Committees were elected as follows, with power to add to their
number :—
Committee of Reference.—Professor W. F. Barrett, Sir W. Crookes,
Dr. R. Hodgson, Dr. W. Leaf, Professor 0. J. Lodge, Mr. F. W. H.
Myers, Lord Rayleigh, Professor H. Sidgwick, Professor J. J.
Thomson, Dr. J. Venn, and Mrs. Verrall.
Library C0mmittee.—Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, Hon. E. Feilding.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
Hypnotic C'ommittec.—Dr. A. W. Barrett, Dr. J. Milne Bramwell,
Hon. E. Feilding, Dr. R. Hodgson, Dr. W. Leaf, Mr. St. George Lane
Fox Pitt, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. J. G. Smith, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Dr.
A. Wallace, and Mr. E. Westlake.
House and Finance C'ommittee.—Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H.
Arthur Smith, and Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor.
The existing lists of Honorary Associates and of Corresponding
' Members were conﬁrmed for the ensuing year.
Three new Members and thirteen new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of fourteen new
Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
FEB.,1899.] Colonel de Rochas’ Musical Sensitive. 21
The Council recorded with regret the death of four Associates of
the Society :—Mr. Clement H, Hill, Mr. William B. Hutchinson, Rev.
F. Synge, and Mrs. Tatham Warter.
The resignation of eleven Associates, who for various reasons
desired to terminate their connection with the Society at the end of
1898, was accepted.
The name of Mrs. Sutherland Orr was at her request transferred
from the list of Associates to that of Members.
The Council acknowledged with thanks some presents to the
library, including a bound copy of Light for 1898 from the London
Spiritualist Alliance.
The audited Statement of Accounts was referred to the House and
Finance Committee, who were requested to prepare an estimate of
income and expenditure for the current year, and present it with their
report to the next meeting of the Council.
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Council should be held
on Friday the 10th of March, at 19, Buckingham Street, W.C., at
4.30 p.m.
NoTE.—The Report of the General Meeting held on January 27th,
and the Statement of Income and Expenditure for 1898, will appear in
the March Journal.
COLONEL DE ROCHAS’ MUSICAL SENSITIVE.
The following extracts from a letter of Colonel de Rochas, Director
of the Ecole Polytechnique of Paris. will be of interest to musical readers.
He is describing a hypnotic sensitive, who responds, as he believes,
with a kind of' su-bliminal delicacy of perception, to a certain intrinsic
signiﬁcance of musical notes or phrases. It is not easy to see how
such a response can be “made evidential,” but there is nothing
incredible in a heightening of aesthetic sensibility in the hypnotic
trance. Colonel de Rochas’ letter is accompanied by photographs
representing the young lady in statuesque attitudes determined by
musical phrases. She is, he adds, perfectly “ convenable,” and open to
engagement for drawing-room gatherings or for scientiﬁc observation.
The further phenomenon here mentioned of “ exteriorisation of
sensibilit_v,”—the transference of sensation from the sensitive’s own body
to some external object—has not been satisfactorily reproduced, so far
as we know, by English observers, nor is it clear what part suggestion
-
-F\-'H
22 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Reseumch. [F1m., 1899.
may have played in the recorded experiments. But here are M. de
Rochas’ remarks on his subject’s musical sensibility :—
‘ ‘ In M"e- Lina, who presents the phenomenon of exteriorisation of sensi
bility to a remarkable degree, I separate (déclanche), so to say, her psychical
body from her spirit, so that, by reﬂex action, the music of a passion produces
automatically the gesture appropriate to that passion, although the subject's
spirit does not perceive the music. The effect becomes intense through this
suppression of the intermediary. Curious observations can thus be made
upon cerebral localisations. Certain notes—the dominant, the mediant, (or
3rd note), the leading note (major 7th or sensible note), the keynote (or
tonic)—produce in whatever key, when the subject is attuned to it by a few
chords, movement of certain parts of the body, always the same. Thus the
mediant sets the hips in motion, the dominant and sub-dominant the hands,
the leading note the lips, etc. When one of these notes returns often in the
music of a dance, for instance, the corresponding part of the body is set in
motion, so that one can compose music which shall set going movements
characteristic of certain oriental dances. .
“ Thus for instance a musician among our group brought with him (without
saying anything to Lina) some notes which he had taken of the Javanese
dance, at the time of the Exposition, and he played the music, never
previously played in this fashion. Lina at once executed the Javanese
dance, which consists of movements of the hands alone.”
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by Com-esponde-nts.]
MR. PonmoRR oN CLAIRvoYANCE AND PoLTERGEIsTs.
(T0 the Editor of the JoURNAL oF THE SoCIETY FoR PsYCHICAL BsssARCH.)
SIR,—Will you allow me to make a few remarks on the treatment of
these questions by Mr. Podmore in the Proceedings for December, 1898?
In my opinion the credit of the Society as a body for the scientiﬁc investiga
tion of a variety of very remarkable and little known phenomena is seriously
injured by the method he has adopted—that of omitting to refer to the best
evidence in the matters he discusses, giving prominence to every possible
supposition of imposture on the part of the agents and of incompetence on
the part of the observers, and then stating his adverse conclusions with a
conﬁdence and authority which should only be displayed after a full
presentation and unprejudiced discussion of the whole evidence available.
I will only refer to a few examples to justify this statement, as I have neither
time nor inclination, nor is it here necessary, to do more.
Mr. Podmore devotes more than ﬁve pages to the case of Alexis Didier,
who, he endeavours to show, might have been, and, therefore, probably was,
an impostor. He ﬁrst describes the mode of bandaging the eyes “ generally,”
which was not the more effective mode usually adopted as described by Dr.
Lee and others. He then states that, from the detailed descriptions of many
Fm, 1899.] Correspondence. 23
observers, he concludes that “ the power exercised by Alexis was perfectly
normal ”—that is, that he saw with his eyes in the ordinary way, and that
his reading sealed letters, describing the contents of closed boxes, and
playing ecarté rapidly and often telling his opponents’ cards as well as his
own, were, or might have been, all clever trickery. Every diﬂicult case
quoted is explained on this assumption, though acknowledging that this
explanation was not necessarily correct. But he continually dwells on the
possibility of fraud, on the agents having highly-trained confederates, on the
simplicity of the numerous witnesses, and on the fact that “the reports
which we possess are mostly at second-hand.”
But in a very well-known work, Dr. Edwin Lee’s Animal Alagnetism, that
physician reports, from personal observation, fourteen séances in Brighton
and Hastings at which a large number of experiments were made, far the
greater number of which were entirely successful, and many very remarkable.
Especially so was the description of a tin box and its contents in the
coroner’s oﬂice at Norwich, Dr. Lee having put into the medium’s hands a
letter from the coroner in which this box was referred to as a test (p. 257).
The reading of passages in books several pages in advance is what Mr.
Podmore considers to be “ most strongly suggestive of trickery” ; but Dr.
Lee gives numerous cases where no opportunity for trickery existed. The
books were often brought by visitors as being old or uncommon, they were
opened at any page and Alexis marked a line and was then asked to read the
same line 10 or 20 pages in advance. The line given by him was usually
found at the same level but not at the same number of pages from the open
page. Many sceptics applied this test with books of their own, and in some
cases the sentences read were quite unexpected and unusual. Mr. Podmore
states that in the accounts he has read, when sealed packages were given
him “the seal must be broken and the contents shown to a sympathetic
witness ” ; but in the long series of experiments of this nature reported by
Dr. Lee, I ﬁnd that this condition was required only in one or two cases,
while many sealed packets are stated to have been described correctly while
unopened.
The card-playing, which Mr. Podmore considers to be “ most probably
deliberate fraud,” happens to be that as to which the evidence that it was
not fraud is most conclusive. It occurred at almost every séance, and in a
number of cases cards were named correctly as they lay upon the table
backs upwards, while on one occasion a large folio volume was placed
upright between the two players without preventing Alexis from naming the
cards in his opponent’s hand. But the absolute proof of the reality of the
clairvoyance while card-playing is the evidence of Robert Houdin, who has
been called the prince of conjurers and to whom everything that could be
done with cards was perfectly familiar.
At the request of the Marquis de Mirville he had two séances with
Alexis, and certiﬁed in writing that he found it “impossible” to class the
phenomena “ among the tricks which are the objects of my art.” And after
the second séance he wrote-—“I therefore came away from this sécmce as
astonished as any one can be, and fully convinced that it would be quite
24: Journal of Society for Psychicat Research. [FEB., 1899.
impossible for any one to produce such surprising effects by mere skill.”*
With such testimony as this, and that of Dr. Lee himself, What is the value
of Mr. Podmore’s suggestions of “deliberate fraud,” or at the best of
“unconscious jugglery ” when in the trance state, together with his ﬁnal
suggestion of an elaborate “intelligence department,” and of “highly
trained confederates ” as an explanation “ not to be summarily dismissed” ?
And such explanations as this, given as the result of an examination of
the best evidence, are the more futile when we consider the mass of ﬁrst
class personal testimony to the reality of clairvoyance of the same nature as
that of Alexis that is accessible to every enquirer. Such are those by the
late Professor Gregory in his Letters on Animal Magnetism (pp. 395—408)
forming absolutely conclusive tests through an ignorant girl who could not
read or write, and of a character more marvellous than any of the clairvoy
ance of Alexis. Other cases with the same medium are recorded by Dr.
Joseph Haddock, M.D., of Bolton, who had her in charge as a patient,
in the Appendix to his work on Somnolism and Psycheism. In three
separate cases this girl recovered lost property when all other means had
failed; besides successfully describing distant persons and events unknown
to any of the persons near her. Dr. Herbert Mayo, in his Letters on the
Truths contained in Popular Superstitions, gives a successful test experi
ment with a Parisian clairvoyante, he being at the time in Prussia. And
besides these we have the Report of the Commission of the Aoade’mie
Royale de Médecine strongly aﬂirming the reality of clairvoyance. But all
this evidence of men of the highest character and ability, after careful and
often long-continued personal observation and test, is wholly ignored by
Mr. Podmore in his attempt to show that Alexis might have been, and
probably was, an impostor. I submit that such a mode of treating this
important subject is utterly unscientiﬁc, is opposed to the rules of evidence
and of common sense, and is unworthy of the prominent place it occupies in
the Proceedings of the Society.
The same defects in an even more exaggerated form are found in his
conclusions as to “Poltergeists ” given in his review of Mr. Andrew Lang’s
Making of Religion in the same number of the Proceedings. He says that he
formerly thought it “ not improbable that there was something inexplicable
in these Poltergeist manifestations.” Now, having taken the eleven cases
investigated by the Society, and, presumably, given due weight to all other
well known records, he concludes :—“ I cannot ﬁnd any evidence that would
* Dr. Lee, in his Animal Magnetism, pp. 162-3, gives the essential part of
Houdin’s two letters ; but in order to understand the full weight of this testimony it
is essential to read De Mirville’s detailed account of his interviews with Houdin, and
of the séances with Alexis, to which Houdin went with the full belief that he could
expose him. This most interesting account occupies the ﬁrst chapter of De Mirville’s
great work, Des Esprits et de leurs Jllanifestations Fluidiques, which is in the Society’s
library. Houdin also tested the reading of closed books; and Alexis informed the
great expert of a fact relating to one of his most intimate friends, which Houdin
declared at the time could not possibly be true, but which he afterwards acknowledged
to be correct. (See Des Esprits, I., p. 26, footnote.)
FRn, 1899.] Correspondence. _ 25
justify such a supposition (that is, that there is anything inexplicable in
them) even as a working hypothesis.” Then, after nearly two pages of reply
to Mr. Lang’s criticisms he thus concludes :—“For myself, I am grieved to
think that the Poltergeist should go. He was a more picturesque ﬁgure than
the naughty little girl who takes his place. There are too many naughty
little girls on this planet already.”
If this judgment is given on the eleven cases alone, the evidence for
which he has adversely criticised, then he should not state in such positive
terms a conclusion founded upon such utterly inadequate evidence. If, on
the other hand, his words—“ I cannot ﬁnd any evidence ”—imply that he
has considered the best of the existing testimony, then so positive a conclu
sion should not be stated without at least pointing out the grounds on which
he rejects it. For it is the case that no class of psychical phenomena rests
on such an extensive basis of well attested facts—facts which were at the
time, and have ever since remained, inexplicable by other than a super
normal cause. I will, therefore, brieﬂy enumerate a few of the best
attested of these cases for the beneﬁt of such readers as are not acquainted
with them; seven which occurred during the present century and two
earlier ones.
1. The Drummer of Tedworth, as the disturbances at the house of Mr.
Mompesson in 1662 are usually termed, deserves attention, both because it
presents the main features of all these cases, and especially because it was
recorded by a contemporary and eye-witness of the highest character and of
exceptional ability, the Rev. Joseph Glanvil, a fellow of the Royal Society
and a writer on the Baconian philosophy. In this case “ the naughty little
gir ” was 10 years old, and the disturbances continued for two years, to the
great distress of Mr. Mompesson who would have been delighted to have
had the cause of it discovered. The disturbances consisted of various
noises, knockings, scratchings, and drums heard as if over the house;
shaking of the ﬂoor and of the whole house; the children’s clothes and other
articles thrown about the room, and chairs and stools moving about by
themselves in the presence of numerous witnesses. The noises were some
times so loud that they were heard in the ﬁelds near and even awakened
people in the village at a considerable distance. Mr. Glanvil himself heard
the knocks and scratchings continuing for half an hour while the children on
whose bed it occurred were lying quite still with their hands outside. He
also heard loud pantings as of a large dog, which was so violent as to
cause the windows and the whole room to shake. The account is given in
considerable detail in Glanvil’s Surlducismus Triumphatus, and I cannot
understand how anyone admitting, as Mr. Podmore does, that “it is solely
a question of evidence,” can come to the conclusion that we have here no
evidence of anything inexplicable, “ even as a working hypothesis.”
2. Half a century later, in 1716, we have the remarkable disturbances at
Epworth Parsonage, Lincolnshire, where the Rev. Samuel Wesley was
rector. Here again we ﬁnd exceptionally good contemporary records by
various members of the Wesley family, all far above the average in
intelligence and freedom from superstition. Samuel Wesley himself kept
26 Journal of Society for Peychical Research. [FEB., 1899.
a journal in which all the chief occurrences were described, and there are
also numerous letters from various members of the family to their friends
and to John Wesley, describing the various events as they occurred. It is
interesting to note that the manservant who ﬁrst heard the noises and
witnessed the movements of various articles, had no fear whatever, and
that each member of the family in turn, when told of what had happened,
entirely disbelieved that there was anything that could not be soon explained,
till he or she had witnessed the phenomena, when it was perceived to be
wholly beyond their experience and utterly inexplicable by any known
causes. At length the whole household—nine or ten persons—witnessed the
disturbances, Mr. Samuel Wesley being the last and most incredulous, and
he too was forced to admit that they were wholly abnormal.
The noises were of various kinds, knockings, footsteps, and creaking or
drumming noises, which moved about to various parts of the house while
being followed, but no cause for which could ever be detected. Often there
were tremendous bangings and clashings as if heavy lumps of coal were
rolling down the stairs, or all the glass and china in a cupboard smashed to
pieces, yet nothing could be found. Movements were also varied. Hand
mills were whirled round, windows rattled, door-latches moved up and down
making a great clatter. On one occasion, when Mr. Wesley went to his
study, of which he always kept the key, the door was pushed back against
him as if by a person inside, but there was nobody. Then began a knocking
in various parts of the room, and he was pushed against his desk as by an
invisible person. Often the noises were so loud and varied that for the
greater part of the night no one could sleep. The disturbances lasted with
more or less violence for two months and then wholly ceased. Many of the
sounds were of a nature that no one could imitate, and were often such that
no person could produce without instant detection. The letters and journal
were preserved and were published by Priestly in 1791, and by Dr. Adam
Clarke in his lllemoirs of the Wesley Family; while John Wesley himself,
in 1720, collected the evidence of all the witnesses and published his account
in the Arminian Magazine.
Here surely is another case in which the evidence of “something
inexplicable” is both good in itself and demonstrative of inexplicability.
It is widely known and easily accessible. Yet Mr. Podmore says :—“I
cannot ﬁnd any evidence” to justify the supposition of “ inexplicability.”
3. Coming to the present century we have ﬁrst the case of the castle
of Slawensik, in Silesia, in 1807. These disturbances were witnessed by
Councillor Hahn and Cornet Kern, both young men of good education and in
perfect health, and free from all superstitious ideas. For more than two
months they witnessed almost daily and nightly the most extraordinary
phenomena. Pieces of lime appeared to fall from the ceiling and ﬂew about
the room to such an extent that the whole ﬂoor and tables were often
covered, yet the closest examination could not detect any sign of its having
come from the ceiling. Noises were heardlike hammering on boards or the
sounds of distant artillery. But most extraordinary were the movements of
almost every loose article in the room, such as knives, forks, brushes,
Fm, 1899.] Correspondence. 27
slippers, soap, candlesticks. Sometimes these things would rise from the
table before the eyes of both of them and then fall to the ﬂoor. Many
other persons, oﬂicers, inspectors, tradesmen, and visitors saw the same
things, and no witness of them could ever suggest a natural explanation.
Hahn soon became greatly interested in these strange occurrences, applied
many tests and kept a careful record of them. And he especially notes, in
reply to the objection of delusion, that whenever several persons were
present, after each abnormal event he asked each person what he saw or
heard, and in every case all witnessed the same thing; while many of the
phenomena happened while he was entirely alone.
He gave his narrative of these events to Dr. Justinus Kerner, who has
published it in his book on the Seeress of Prevorst (pp. 274—289 of Mrs.
Crowe’s translation), and a good abstract is given in Dale Owen’s Footfalls.
Here again we have absolutely inexplicable occurrences, and the evidence
for them must certainly be classed a exceptionally good.
4. We now come to the remarkable bell-ringing at Major Moor’s house,
Great Bealings, near Woodbridge, Suffolk, in 1834. It began on February
2nd, and continued almost daily till March 27th. The most careful exam
ination and observation by the Major and his friends failed to discover any
natural cause. All the bells rang either together or separately, except the
front door bell, which would be the most easy to play tricks with. They
rang just the same when all the servants were brought together by Major
Moor; and also in the presence of reporters and others. The violence of the
peals and the rapidity of the moving bells could not be imitated. Major
Moor wrote an account of the disturbance in a letter to the Ipswich Journal,
and besides many inadequate or foolish attempts at explanation he received
letters from all parts of the kingdom describing similar occurrences in various
houses. A clergyman, who wrote from a rectory in Norfolk, described
various loud and disturbing noises resembling those at Epworth, which had
been heard by himself and family for nearly nine years, and which could be
traced for sixty years back. Lieutenant Rivers had equally mysterious bell
ringing with those at Bealings in his rooms at Greenwich Hospital. Constant
watching by himself, by friends, by the oﬂicial surveyor and bell-hanger,
failed to discover any cause whatever. This ringing lasted four days.
In a little book called Bealings Bells Major Moor gives an account of
his own case and those of the various other persons who had communicated
with him; and the whole constitutes a body of facts attested on the best
possible evidence, which is alone suﬂicient to demonstrate that " something
inexplicable ” of which Mr. Podmore declares he cannot ﬁnd any good
evidence at all ! *
5. ln 1838 a violent outbreak of stone throwing and other disturbances
occurred at the farmhouse of Banchory, in Aberdeenshire. On the 5th
of December and for ﬁve days after, great numbers of sticks, stones, and
earth-clods ﬂew about the yard and struck the house. Hundreds of persons
* This book is in the library of the Society, and; good summary of the facts is
given in Owen’s Debatablc Land, pp. 239-245.
28 Journal of Society for Psychtcal Research. [Fss.,1B99
came from far and near to see the marvel and none could ﬁnd any cause.
Then for two weeks the disturbances occurred inside the house, where knives,
plates, mustard pots, ﬂat irons, and many other articles ﬂew about the room
or came down the chimney. Sometimes they ﬂew from room to room ; and
there were also tremendous knockings on the doors and roof, while sticks
and stones ﬂew against the windows and broke them. People for 20 miles
round came to see the phenomena, including farmers, gentry and clergy
men, but could ﬁnd no explanation. At length the two servant-girls were
“strictly examined” and sent to prison, and as the disturbances then ceased
the conclusion seemed to be that they must have done it all, although of the
hundreds who had been present no one ever saw them do a single thing.
The phenomena were closely like those at the castle of Slawensik, and
suggest a common cause. The case is reported by Mackay in his Popular
Delusions and is summarised in Owen’s Footfulls, p. 183.
6. The case of Mary Jobson of Sunderland, in 1839, is especially in
teresting because she was attended by Dr. Reid Clanny, F.R.S., who
published an account of the extraordinary things witnessed by himself and
also by three other medical men and other persons, sixteen in all. The
phenomena consisted of violent knocking, footsteps, doors opened and shut,
voices, music, water thrown on the ﬂoor, and beautiful designs appearing
on the ceiling, all without any discoverable cause ; and all in presence of a
sick girl of thirteen who had been long treated for a mysterious disease by
bleeding, blistering, and purging which almost killed her. A short abstract
of Dr. Clanny’s publication is given by Howitt in his lfistory of the Super
natural, Vol. II., p. 450. Dr. Clanny was ridiculed and persecuted, but
always maintained his ﬁrm conviction of the reality of these inexplicable
phenomena.
7. The disturbances in a burial-vault beneath a chapel in the public
cemetery of Arensburg in the island of Oesel, in 1844, are noteworthy,
because they were oﬂicially inquired into by a commission consisting of
Baron de Goldenstubbé, the Bishop of the province, :1 physician, the Burgo
master of the town, and two members of the Consistory. The disturbances
consisted in the coﬂins which had been placed side by side in the vault,
being found, on the occasion of a funeral, to have been displaced so as to
lie on each other in a confused heap. They were put back in their places
and the doors securely locked, but when privately inspected shortly after
wards by the Baron who was president of the Consistory, they were found
in the same disorder as before. After satisfying themselves that the
foundations and ﬂoor of the vault were untouched, and that there was no
secret entrance, the Commission had the cotﬁns replaced, and ﬁne wood ashes
were strewn over the pavement of the vault, the stairs, and the ﬂoor of the
chapel. All the doors were locked and doubly sealed with oﬂicial seals, and
a guard of soldiers watched the building for three days and nights. Then
the members of the Commission returned, found the seals intact, the ashes
throughout the chapel, stairs, and vault, wholly undisturbed, and with no
marks of footsteps; yet all the coﬂins but three (as before) were scattered
about in confusion, the lid of one had been forced open, and several others,
Fm, 1899.] Correspondence. 29
though very heavy, had been set up on end. An oﬂicial report was drawn up
stating these facts, and was signed by all the members of the Commission ;
it is preserved with the archives of the Consistory, and may be seen by any
respectable visitors. The disturbances are said to have continued for some
months longer, when it was determined to cover the coﬂins thickly with
earth so as completely to bury them, after which no further disturbances of
any kind took place. The facts are stated by R. D. Owen in his Footfalls,
p. 186, he having obtained them, in 1859, from the daughter and son of
Baron Goldenstubbé, who were living near at the time and heard of all the
occurrences when they happened. Here, again, we have the best evidence
as to occurrences which were, and are, wholly inexplicable.
8. Stone-throwing in Paris. This is remarkable as having been watched
by the police for three weeks continuously without detecting the cause. A
small house in a populous quarter, but isolated by the removal of other
houses, was, as stated in the police report, assailed “every evening and
through the whole night by a hail of projectiles which, from their bulk and
the violence with which they have been thrown, have done such destruction
that it has been laid open to the day, and the woodwork of the doors and
windows reduced to shivers, as if it had sustained a siege, aided by a.
catapult or grape shot.” The stones, etc., appeared to come from a great
height in the air, and all the powers of the police, employed day and night
on the spot, were never able to discover the cause.
This case is referred to in Owen’s Footfalls, but a fuller account is given
by De Mirville in his work Des Esprits. I have given a full account,
translated from La Gazette des Tm'bunauac (the oﬂicial organ of the French
police), in my Miracles and Modern Spiritualism, p. 284, which was veriﬁed
by a literary friend at the British Museum as an exact translation. A later
notice declared that “the phenomena remain inexplicable,” and De Mirville
tells us that nearly a year afterwards he enquired of the police, of the
Gazette, and of the owner of the house, who had suffered serious loss both in
house and furniture, but nothing whatever had been discovered. (Des
Esprits, Vol. I., p. 384.) Yet Mr. Podmore tells us that he can ﬁnd no
evidence of any such inexplicable occurrences !
9. The next, and in some respects the most remarkable case to be cited,
is that of the disturbances in the house of the parish priest of Cideville,
Seine Inferieure, in 1851, which lasted two months and a-half, and was the
subject of a law-suit for defamation of character, during which all the main
facts were legally established and duly recorded. The story is a long and
interesting one, and is given in full detail in Dale Owen’s Footfalls, pp. 195-
203, and, brieﬂy, in my Miracles and Modern Spiritualtsm, p. 79.
The phenomena were much the same as in the other more violent
disturbances already described. Tremendous knockings, scratchings, and
shakings of the house occurred, sometimes as if everyone in the house were
simultaneously beating the ﬂoors with mallets ; ﬁre-irons, hammers, tables,
desks, and other articles moved about the rooms in the presence of many
witnesses, without any apparent cause. The Marquis de Mirville, who
owned property in the neighbourhood, the Mayor of Oideville, and many of
30 Journal of Society for Psycluical Research. [FRs., 1899.
the gentlemen, ladies, and clergy of the country round. witnessed these
phenomena and gave evidence before the court, which sat while the disturb
ances were still going on. A full summary of this case is given by De
Mirville ; with the detailed judgment of the Court and the more important
parts of the evidence (Des Esprits, Vol. I., Chap. XI.) and every reader of
this narrative must agree with Dale Owen’s concluding remark, “I doubt
if it be possible to ﬁnd a case more explicit or better authenticated than the
foregoing.”
In conclusion, I maintain strongly that the nine cases I have here brieﬂy
summarised rest upon emphatically good evidence, and are of such a nature
as to be quite inexplicable on any supposition of delusion or imposture. And
further, I maintain that they are quite as worthy of attention and of equal
weight, as if they had been observed and described by Mr. Podmore himself
or by any of the most trusted members of the Society for Psychical Research ;
while they rest on better evidence, and have every one of them greater
importance whether on account of their duration, the nature of the
phenomena observed, or the character and ability of the witnesses than even
the best of the eleven cases by criticising which Mr. Podmore founds his
general conclusion, that he can ﬁnd no evidence whatever of any of these
phenomena being genuine or even “inexplicable,” and that the only
“ Poltergeists” are “ naughty little girls.” I therefore urge that his mode
of treatment as regards this wide-spread and important class of psychical
phenomena, is utterly inadequate and unscientiﬁc, and therefore unworthy
of a place in the Proceedings of the Society. ALFRED R WALLACE
NoTR.—Besides the above, every enquirer should examine the cases of
“ Stone-throwing” given by William Howitt in three articles in Vol. VI. of
the Spiritual Magazine. Several of these are as marvellous and as well
attested as those here given, especially that of another French parsonage in
1835 (p. 51), and one in Ceylon in 1863 (p. 66). Numerous cases are also to
be found in the later volumes of this magazine.
MR. PoDMoRE, PoLTERGEIsTs, AND KINDRED SPnuTs.
I have read with interest Mr. Podmore’s review of my Ma/ring of Religion,
with the Religion left out. It is amusing, indeed, to ﬁnd a psychical re
searcher dissatisﬁed with the methods of anthropology, whereof psychical
research, to my mind, is only a branch. But true it is that in anthropology
each inquirer is only too apt to “select whatever facts best suit his views.”
For that reason I produced many facts which my brethren (except Mr.
Tylor, whose views are not mine) had overlooked. The ﬁeld is so vast that
our generation can best employ itself in routing out and examining facts (or
statements), but many inquirers have been taking it for granted that every
thing is already found out, and pigeon-holed, and accounted for. My poor
effort is to show that this is a wrong opinion.
(1). Leaving Religion out, Mr. Podmore asks (p. 131) whether “the
attitude” of a young lady lying bare-foot on a sofa was not perhaps a
familiar one? I asked at the time; it was highly unfamiliar, and, for
Fm, 1899.] _ Correspondence. 31
_4___-~-
reasons, unadvisable. Hence the maternal anxiety to know whether her
daughter had been the bare-foot lady of the crystal vision. She had been
this lady—or, at all events, she had been in the attitude. I may add that I
have other new cases of savage crystal gazing, and I think that psychical
research can no more afford than other sciences to overlook savage anticipa
tions of such experiences. Mr. Frazer has shown, in his Pausam'as, that for
lack of anthropological lore the science of classical antiquities has often been
left in ignorance or abandoned to wrong explanations. Indeed, I have
shown as much myself.
(2). P. 131. It is not on “ aesthetic ” grounds that I distrust Mrs. Piper.
We want proof of the identify of her spirits. Now when the souls of English
gentlefolks talk the argut of the American lower middle classes, they demon
strate that they are not what they are alleged to be.
My Book of Dreams and Ghosts was, professedly, intended to entertain.
But, far from preferring “smooth and ﬁnished narratives,” I went, when
I could, to contemporary MSS. (as of the Villiers story) in place of being
content with “ psychical brie-a-brac restored” in Wardour Street. So I went
to the contemporary newspaper which Mr. Podmore had neglected, for the
Worksop polte'rgeist, as he very candidly admits. Mrs. Piper is too
“incoherent ” for me. and I regret that I destroyed my minute criticism of
her revelations to Mr. Lodge. But I think I can return to the inquisition of
this story.
(3). I don’t “champion a supernormal interpretation.” (p. 133.) I
champion the method of “ﬁling for reference” certain cases, as against
paying ourselves with a theory of collective hallucinations of odd uniformity
and wide diffusion. I fear I don’t understand Mr. Podmore’s distinction
between “ things done,” and “phenomena described,” or, if, on reﬂection,
I do understand it, the contemporary evidence, “in almost complete agree
ment ” with what Mr. Podmore collected ﬁve weeks later, convinces me that
the things described were done, somehow or other. Mr. Podmore admits that
here his theory of later embellishment breaks down. In Mr. Bristow’s
case ﬁve years elapsed, but I conceive that an intelligent man can remember
through ﬁve years a set of phenomena which struck him as most remark
able. If the phenomena had been normal, say a love affair of his own,
a boat race, or a cricket match, and if he had been deeply interested in
them, I should expect an intelligent witness’s evidence, after ﬁve years,
to be good. Much of our history rests, with fair security, on evidence
separated by more than ﬁve years from the events. So I prefer, not to
champion a supernormal theory, but to wait and do without a theory,
especially a theory so thin as Mr. Podmore’s “naughty little girl" (in
some cases where no girl is heard of) or his theory of later embellish
ment (which broke down at Worksop) or his amazing theory of uniformly
diffused collective hallucination as to the ﬂight of objects. These may
be as good as other theories, but why have a theory at all ?
In the case of Homes levitation I misunderstood Mr. Podmore’s meaning.
He means that, not when Home came into room A, but when he was seen to
ﬂoat out of room B by three educated gentlemen, he merely pushed out his
32 Journal of Society for Psyckical Resem-ch. [FIn3., 1899.
head and shoulders. They had previously, they say, “seen Home ﬂoating
in the air outside” the window of room A. I do not know what happened,
really, but I cannot possibly accept the head and shoulders hypothesis.
As to Sir W. Crookes being unable to see a piece of asbestos cloth in
Home's hand by the light of two candles and the ﬁre, I may leave that to
Sir W. Crookes. To be unharmed by ﬁre is not “without parallel or
analogy.” A case, carefully investigated by two physicians in the open air,
was published lately by them in a New Zealand paper. I understand that
they will put forth an ampler account in the local Scientiﬁc Proceedings.
Enﬁn, I have no theory of these things. But my reasoning faculties
rise up against Mr. Podmore’s theories, and, till a better occurs, I live
contentedly without an explanatory hypothesis. Let me acknowledge the
extreme courtesy of Mr. Podmore’s comments on my rather testy observa
tions.
St. Andrews, January 18th, 1899. A. LANG.
CASE.
L. 1111. Ae P"
Although the following case is remote in date, the incident is one
which could scarcely have been subsequently imagined,—or even
seriously confused by lapse of memory.
Mr. Hyndman writes as follows, under date November, 1898 :—
On December 26th, 1872. my husband, Francis Hugh Hyndman, left
Calcutta on a steamer, intending to return in about ten days.
He left me quite well, but in the morningr of the next day, when off the
Sunderbunds, he had such a strong presentiment that I was seriously ill,
that he arranged to return at once by a river steamer, although at great
inconvenience. He reached home at about 5 p.m. on that day to ﬁnd me
very ill with Asiatic cholera. I felt very ill on the morning of the 27th, but
kept up until noon, helping a friend to nurse her husband who was dying of
the same complaint.
About noon I left my friend’s house, after her husband’s death, to return
home and go to bed, at about which time my husband must have been start
ing on his return journey.
I was quite alone at the time with only native servants, one of whom I
sent for the doctor, but I took the usual speciﬁc in rather a large quantity
and went to sleep for about two hours. Soon after I awoke, my husband
arTived. A few hours after, I became unconscious and have no distinct
recollections for some time.
I do not remember having distinctly wished for my husband’s return, as
I thought it was impossible. He knew nothing of my friend’s illness, which
was only known to me after his departure, and his ﬁrst intimation of his.
death was meeting the funeral procession as he drove past the house.
(Signed) J. E. HYNDMAN.
Account sent by my mother.
H. H. FRANCIs HYNDMAN (Trin. 0o11., Camb.).
No. CLVII.—Vo1.. IX. MARcn, 1899.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RESEARCH.
' CONTENTS. mos
General MeetIng .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 33
The Society for Psychical Research and Eusapia Paladino .. .. .. .. .. 35
Correspondence :-—
Mr. Michael Petrovo-solovovo on the Evidence of Independent Slate-wr1t1ng .. 36
Clairvoyance and Poltergeists .. .. .. . . . . .. . . .. .. 87
Balance sheet for the Year 1898 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 46 J
The Edmund Gurney Library Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 47 4.
Case .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 47
“Haunted Houses" .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 48
GENERAL ME ETING.
The 97th General Meeting of the S.P.R. was held in the West
minster Town Hall, at 4 p.m., on Friday, January 27th. The Lower
Hall had been secured for the occasion. Less luxuriously seated thRn
the Upper Hall, in which all meetings have hitherto been held, it
accommodates a somewhat larger number; and Professor Richet’s
presence attracted a very full and attentive audience. Sir W.
CRooKEs, F.R.S., was in the chair, and introduced Professor Richet to
the meeting as one of the leading scientiﬁc men in France, Professor
of Physiology at the University of Paris, and one of the two lecturers
selected by the Council of the British Association to deliver a lecture
before the Association at their meeting at Dover in September next.
“Although,” continued Sir W. Crookes, “it only remotely bears on
our present subject, I should like to make a quotation from Professo
Richet’s letter accepting this invitation. He says :~‘If I thus gladl
accept the invitation it is because I agree with you that the dissen~
tions separating our two countries-—countries which ought to be ,
animated by mutual respect and goodwilI—are absurd and even
criminal. (Applause.) Thus, to the extent of my powers will I do
my best to dissipate misunderstandings and allay ill—i'ee1ings.’
“A
“ This letter was written some months ago when circumstances were
different from what they now are. Still we all honour the feelings so
34: ' Jriwrnal of Society for 1’s;c/cluical Reseun-ch. [MAR., 1899.
W
- to-day a renewed token of friendship.
cordially expressed, and we see in Professor Richet’s visit to us
(Applause)
ut Professor Richet has other peculiar claims on our regard and
attention. He is the pioneer of experimental psychical research in
France, where public opinion is behind that of this country in its appre
ciation of the importance of the subject. Under the many discourage
ments incidental to the study of an unpopular subject he has worked
on with inﬁnite patience. He has gained success in experimenting
with psychically endowed persons by his sympathy and kindness, and
is researches in multiple personality, especially in the case of
‘ Léonie,’ are well known to all of us. In the much debated branch of
enquiry included in the term ‘ hypnotism at a distance ’ he has achie"ed
remarkable results. He however is specially known to us by his long
and -patient investigation of the abnormal powers ascribed to Eusapia
ladino. Here he has not been deterred by the undoubted instances
» of cheating which occasionally so gravely complicate genuine
lp/heno1negna. Recognising that Eusapia—an unlettered Neapolitan
peasant—was in mental development a mere child, and not so
gravely guilty as better educated cheats, he persevered, being fortiﬁed
by numerous instances of phenomena which cheating, as he considered,
could not possibly explain. And since he remained throughout fully
alive to the grave danger of palliating cheating and condoning trickery,
' ' '1~~think that Professor Richet, whatever the actual facts may be,
~g:\hose the truly scientiﬁc path in his persistent endeavour to observe
\and elucidate them.”
Professor Richet’s Address dealt with the successive experiences
which had brought him over from his original materialistic standpoint
to a gradually expanding belief in the operation of forces as yet
unknown to science. The greater part of this Address will, it is hoped,'
be prepared by Professor Richet to 'appear (in translated form) in
Proceedings XXXV. Part of it which related to Eusapia Paladino
will, together with other matter concerning Eusapia, be deferred at
any rate until after further experiments Which Professor Richet hopes
'to conduct in the course of the summer.’ For the same reason the
remarks of Mr. F.' W. H. Myers and Professor Lodge, who brieﬂy
followed Professor Richet, are not reproduced here. ‘
Professor Richet spoke in French and without notes, but with such
clearnessthat he was (so far as could be judged) followed with easy
coniprehension by almost every member of the large audience.
Departing'-from the usual habit at such meetings, Sir W. Crookes
concluded by proposing a vote of thanks to the lecturer, which -was
accorded by acclamation. ' ' "
‘--_—~
MAn, 1899.] The 'S.P.'R.'and 'Eusapia Paladino. ' 35
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND
'EUSAPIA PALADINO. ' '
The following letter appeared in Light of February 18th :—— -
As some misunderstanding appears to exist with regard to the relation
of the Society for Psychical Research as a body, or of some of its members
individually, to Eusapia Paladino, I shall be glad if you will allow me to
state brieﬂy certain facts.
In the ﬁrst place, as has been again and again stated, the Society for
Psychical Research absolutely disclaims any corporate opinion, beyond the
opinion that the whole range of alleged supernormal phenomena deserves
careful inquiry in a scientiﬁc spirit. The Society has from the ﬁrst included
~its founders wished it to include—persons of widely varying opinions';
and the selection of papers or articles, for reading or printing, has through
out been guided, not by the views which those papers expressed, but by the
degree of scientiﬁc care and candour with which, in the Council’s opinion,
the experiments narTated had been made or the inferences drawn.
Individual responsibility has throughout been deﬁned and guarded, and
the Society is not implicated, as a whole, in any view which any of its
members may take of a particular medium.
Secondly, even among the more active members there has been no change
of view, save a certain change in my own views, to which I will come presently.
Professor Sidgwick and Dr. Hodgson are quite unaffected by my report of
Eusapia’s latest phenomena. They continue to regard her as a mere
trickster, and to deprecate further experiment with 'a person who has
systematically practised trickery for years. Professor Richet and Professor
Lodge retain their view that she mingles genuine and spurious phenomena.
As for myself, my readers may possibly remember that I witnessed
phenomena on the ile Roubaud which I held to be genuine, and afterwards
phenomena in my own house which (thanks, mainly, to Dr. Hodgson’s
acumen) I ascertained beyond doubt to be false ; and which Eusapia’s
“ control” has since a_dmitted to be false. I then felt, and I think reasonably,
that in view of all this fraud, although still unable to disbelieve wholly~ in
those earlier experiences, I could not ask other persons to take my recollection
of the ile Roubaud séances as proving genuineness. Such an attitude, of course,
was pro tanto depreciatory of Professor Richet and Professor Lodge, who
continued to believe in the ile Roubaud phenomena. And when Professor
Richet invited me to attend further séances last December, I felt that' I
could not refuse ;—in spite of the grave objection which I felt, and feel, to
taking any further notice of mediums proved dishonest.
The new phenomena were far more striking than even those of the ile
Roubaud ; I was _convinced_that they were genuine; and obvious duty to my
colleagues, upon whose acumen my previous withdrawal had to some extent
reﬂected, urged me_ publicly to avow my revised conviction. There is no
great change of view here, and this is all the change of view that has occurred
ivith regard to the phenomena or performances of Eusapia Paladino.
I-Leckham'pton House, Cambridge. F’ W‘ H‘ MYERS’
36 Journal of Society for Psych/ical Research. [M1m.. 1899.
CORRESPONDENCE. -
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions eaqwessed by Correspondents]
MR. MICHAEL PETRovo-SoLovovo oN THE EvnmNCR oF INDEPENDENT
SLATE-WRITING.
The following letter has been received from Professor Shufeldt, of
Washington, DC. :'—
In Volume IX. of the Journal of the S.P.R. (No. CLV., January, 1899,.
pp. 11, 12), I ﬁnd a communication that has considerable interest for me..
It is a letter contributed by our distinguished member, Michael Petrovo
Solovovo, who reviews Mr. Podmore’s Review of Mr. Lang’s, “The Making
of Religion.” Mr. Petrovo-Solpvovo is evidently a staunch believer in the
alleged phenomenon of independent slate-writing and allied tricks, and
expresses some surprise at the “evidence” of Professor Elliott (Jones of
this country being “absolutely ignored” on this point in Mr. Podmore’s
review. Perhaps I can furnish the reason for your correspondent why so
careful an observer and wide a reader as Mr. Podmore ignored a “gentle
man of such scientiﬁc eminence ” as Dr. Cones in his review. The fact that
a person’s name is widely known is no criterion whatever of the soundness
of his opinions or the depth of his learning. Dr. Coues believes that inde-
pendent slate-writing is “ a fact in nature,” and Mr. Podmore has very good
reasons for believing nothing of the kind, and, to use the word in its widest.
sense, he is too good a naturalist to believe anything of the kind.- (See
Religio-Philosophical Jonrnal, February 27th, 1892.) It is an easy matter to
become notorious in any ﬁeld of research, and Dr. Coues most assuredly
made himself so when he published in The Nation of New York (December
25th, 1884, p. 543), statements to the effect that his methods of examining
“ghosts” wereby smelling them, seeing them, hearing them, handling
them, weighing them upon hay or platform scales, and by examining the
parings of their toe-nails and ﬁnger-nails when the aforesaid “ghosts” left
such detached portions of themselves behind them. Dr. Coues distinctly
claims in The Nation that he has personally eacamined by means of the micro-
scope not only such structures as the toe-nails of ghosts, but also specimens
of their hair, when the ghosts have condescended to have it trimmed during
their visits to this mundane sphere. Now, if one of such “scientiﬁc
eminence" as Dr. Ooues makes such statements as these “in print,” I fail
to see what more we need in the premises, or what further proof Mr.
Petrovo-Solovovo needs. Further, Dr. Coues“states in the aforesaid article
that thousands of ghosts have been examined in this way, “annually,
monthly, weekly, daily, and perhaps hourly, by thousands of persons of
every grade of intelligence, etc. ” ; but your correspondent should read the
article of Dr. Coues in The Nation and be convinced, and he then may be
able to better appreciate, perhaps, the reason why Mr. Podmore so
thoroughly ignored the “evidence” of such a contributor to our honest
researches, notwithstanding the fact that he had attained scientiﬁc eminence
R. W. SHUFELDL
MAB.,1899.] ' Correspondence. ' ’ 37
CLAIRvoYANCE AND PoLTERGEIsTs.
SIR,—I will make shift as well as I can to meet the principal objections
brought forward by Dr. Wallace against my views on Alexis Didier’s
clairvoyance and on Poltergeists. To deal with them at all adequately
would occupy more space than your courtesy or the tolerance of your
readers would allow; and I trust Dr. Wallace will understand that in
what follows I am constrained by considerations of space to pass by some
points in his letter and to be briefer than I could have wished in dealing
with others.
Houdin’s testimony is no doubt very striking. But we must dis
tinguish. Against the theory that Alexis’ success was due to conjuring of
the ordinary type, it must be admitted to be conclusive. But on the view
advocated by me, that the clairvoyance of cards and sentences in closed
books, etc., was probably due to preternormal acuteness of vision, con
ditioned by the trance, it is not so conclusive. No doubt Houdin, as a
trained observer, would, if his attention had been specially directed to this
possibility, have been better able than the ordinary person to pronounce
judgment on it. But this acuteness of vision here supposed is a distinct
thing from the rapid and comprehensive glance, the result of long training,
which, as we know from Houdin himself, is part of the conjuror’s equip
ment, and might very well pass for incredible even with an expert observer.
Houdin contents himself with saying that Alexis’ performances were beyond
the resources of the art of conjuring.
My disbelief in this kind of clairvoyance is founded mainly on a com
parison of the best reports I could ﬁnd of the numerous cases in France
and England during the period from 1820-50: e.g., the report of the Second
French Commission on Animal Magnetism; the reports on M11e- Pigeaire;
and especially the very careful and varied experiments of Chauncey Hare
Townshend on his subject, also a French youth. It is clear, especially
from Townshend’s reports (Facts in Mesmerism), that the exercise of the
faculty had some relation to normal vision : the interposition of a screen,
an extra bandage, an alteration in the position of the bandage, or in
the angle at which the object was held, constantly caused the experiment
to fail.
When the observers were less careful than Townshend these variations of
the experiments were not tried, or their results were not recorded.
Most of the reporters on Alexis paid no attention to such small points ;
and no doubt the conditions of the bandaging, etc., were prescribed by
Marcillet. But I referred in my article to some reports from the outside
journals of this time (1844), from which it was quite clear that Alexis was
very particular about the position of the bandages ; and even in Dr. Lee’s
book I ﬁnd one case in which Alexis refused to submit to the handkerchief
being tied over the face (p. 272).
I cannot ﬁnd anything in Dr. Lee's reports that would lead me to alter
my opinion. They are very condensed ; and Dr.' Hodgson has abundantly
shown that condensed reports in such matters are certain to omit seemingly
38 Journal of Society for Psycl1/ical Research. [MAB.,1F99»
irrelevant details which give the key to the result. Three or four such
omissions in Dr. Lee’s reports I will brieﬂy note :— I
1. He nowhere mentions whether the table used for card-playing was
covered with a cloth or whether the polished surface was bare. .
. 2. He never mentionsthe whereabouts, and only once or twice incidentally
mentions the presence, of Marcillet at the experiments. Yet Marcillet, the
hypnotiser, was presumably present throughout.
3. P. 258, Séance III., after describing successful card-playing, he goes
on : “ Reading from a volume opened at random by the Rev. F. Robertson,
twenty pages in advance." Two pages later, at the end of the account, he
mentions incidentally that the ﬁrst trial of reading, also proposed by the
Rev. F. Robertson, had. been a failure.
4. Again, on the same page (258) is another serious omission. Lee
writes: “Sir R—— G—— then gave a morocco case, which Alexis said
contained —,” and then proceeded to describe the contents.
In an account of the same sitting by Mr. Parsons, of Brighton (Zoist,
Vol. VII., pp. 92-3), the incident is thus described: “ Sir R. Grant pre
sented a packet containing a portrait, which had been before presented by a
sceptic, and Alexis could then make nothing of it. Marcillet then proposed
that the packet should be put into the hands of any other gentleman who
was not a sceptic, and that the contents should be exhibited to that other
person in another room. Sir R. Grant volunteered, and this was done, and
the packet secured as before. Alexis now succeeded in describing the
picture with particularity.”
No doubt to Dr. Lee it would have seemed insufferably tedious and
irrelevant to have stated in his account of each sitting where Marcillet
stood, at what kind of a table Alexis played cards, what failures occurred in
each experiment before success was achieved, and so on. I do not in the least
question his good faith in the matter. But the little details which he omits
are just what I want to know; and their omission, whilst it makes it
diﬂicult to frame a satisfactory theory as to how Alexis could achieve the
wonders reported of him, renders it impossible for us to place any conﬁdence
in Dr. Lee’s conclusion, that it was all due to a hypothetical faculty of
clairvoyance. _
I am sorry that I should have given Dr. Wallace the impression that I
reject the evidence for clairvoyance at a distance, or, generally, for that
form of clairvoyance which seems allied to and merges in thought reading.
The evidence of Haddock, Gregory, Townshend, Barth, and many others at
that period is very strong. The evidence for the exercise of the faculty,
even in the case of Alexis, seems good, and might be better if we could
eliminate Marcillet, and could get more reports at ﬁrst hand, and in detail.
I will now pass to the second part of Dr. Wallace’s letter, which deals
with Poltergeists. My argument is, brieﬂy, the better the evidence, the
less the marvel ; until when we succeed in obtaining, as we very rarely do
obtain, the contemporary evidence at ﬁrst hand of intelligent witnesses, we
ﬁnd nothing which the “naughty little gir ” is not fully competent to
explain.
MAn, 1899.] ’ C0'r/)~¢'5-p(m,'dence"__ . ju 39
There would not be space to criticise in detail all the nine cases which
Dr. Wallace brings forward. I will discuss brieﬂy the ﬁrst three ; taking
these partly. because they are the ﬁrst three (that I may not appear to
select cases specially favourable to my argument), partly because they are
amongst the best known and most widely quoted narratives.
1. The Drummer of Tedworth, as told by Glanvil. The disturbances
began “about the middle of April," 1661 (Glanvil only gives two exact
dates in the whole narrative), and continued for about two years. Glanvil’s
account of it, as we learn from the preface to the fourth (posthumous)
edition of Sadducismu-s Triumphatus, was ﬁrst published in 1668. Glanvil
himself paid one visit to the house, “ about this time ”—the last date given,
on the previous page, being January 10th, 1662. Glanvil’s account of all
he saw and heard is, in brief, as follows : On hearing from a maid-slervant
that “it was come,” he, with Mr. Mompesson and another, went up to a
bedroom ; “ there were two modest little Girls in the Bed, between 7 and 8
Years old, as.I guest.” Glanvil heard a scratching in the bed “as loud
as one with long Nails could make upon a Bolster,” This lasted for half-an
hour and more, and Glanvil could not discover the cause ; it was succeeded
by a panting, like a dog, accompanied by movements in the bedding : also
the windows shook ; also Glanvil saw a movement in a “ Linnen Bag ” that
hung against another bed, but was not apparently sufﬁciently sure of the
accuracy of his observation to mention this incident in the ﬁrst (1668)
edition. Further, Glanvil was aroused by an untimely knocking next morning ;
and his horse fell ill on the way home, and died 2 or 3 days later. This is
the only detailed account which we have at ﬁrst hand ; it is written 5 or
6 years after the events. and apparently not from full notes, as Glanvil is
unable to give the exact dates.
The rest of the account is founded on the oral relation of Mr.
Mompesson, conﬁrmed by other witnesses, “and partly from his own
letters.” There are also two letters of Mompesson’s, dated respectively
1672 and 1674. But he gives no detailed conﬁrmation of Glanvil’s account ;
indeed, when the second letter was written he expressly says that he had
lent Glanvil’s book “for the use of the Lord Hollis," the previous year,
and did not know what the account contained. But even if we assume that
Glanvil had accurately put down 5 or 6 years later all that he had heard
from Mompesson, it does not amount to much ; for it does not appear that
Mo1npesson himself witnessed any of the more marvellous incidents—the
drops of blood, the chairs moving by themselves, “ the great Body with two
red and glaring Eyes,” and all the rest of it. These things were witnessed
by neighbours, by men-servants, or by an undistributed “they.” So_ that
Glanvil’s account of them may be third-hand, or tenth-hand.
3. The disturbances at the Castle of Slawensik, an account of which is
preserved by Kerner in the Seeress of Prevorst. (I postpone for the moment
Dr. Wallace’s case No. 2, the Wesley Ghost.) The disturbances took
place during two months in the winter of 1806-7, apparently from end of
November 'to end of January. They are said to have been witnessed by
many persons, whose names are given; but we have only one account,
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1899
written by Councillor Hahn on November 19th, 1808, and by him given to
Kerner in 1828. From the fact that no dates are given it may be inferred
that Hahn did not keep notes ; at any rate, not accurate notes. I know no
reason for doubting Hahn’s honesty ; but his studies of Kant and Fichte are
no guarantee of his competence as a witness. In any case I submit that his
unsupported testimony, given 18 months or more after the events, does
not constitute “exceptionally good” evidence, even for things which he
saw, or believed himself to see, with his own eyes. But many of the
Inarvels are only given at second-hand. It was the dauntless Kern who saw
in the glass the white ﬁgure of a woman looking at him ; Hahn stood before
the glass for a quarter of an hour and saw only his own reﬂection. Again,
it was Kern and Hahn’s servant, during Hahn’s absence at Breslau, who
saw a jug of beer rise from the table, as if lifted by an invisible hand, and
pour out a glass half full, and the glass then raise itself in the air and tilt its
contents (which disappeared without leaving a trace) down an invisible
throat. Kern had evidently spent his time to more purpose than in
studying Kant and Fichte.
2. But I ﬁnd myself in entire agreement with Dr. Wallace in his
estimate of the evidence in the Wesley case. It is perhaps the most
fully authenticated case which we possess in the literature of the subject.
The main disturbances lasted with intervals for the two months, December
and January, 1716-17, with occasional outbreaks after that date. The
records consist (1) of letters written to Samuel Wesley (John’s elder
brother) by his mother and his two sisters, Susannah and Emilia. These
letters are dated January, February, and March, 1816-1817, that is,
within a few weeks of the disturbances. (2) A copy of an account
written by Samuel Wesley (John’s father). The copy was made by Samuel
Wesley, the son, in 1830, from a copy made by John Wesley in 1826.
(3) Letters written by Mrs. Wesley and four of her daughters to John
Wesley in the summer and autumn of 1726, more than nine years after the
occurrences. The evidence comprised under (1), (2), and (3) was ﬁrst
published in 1791 by Priestley. A copy of the letters and diary in the
handwriting of Samuel Wesley (John’s brother), had been given to Priestley,
as he explains, by the Rev. S. Badcock, who had himself received the MSS.
from a granddaughter of Samuel Wesley.* (4) An account compiled in 1826
by John Wesley from the letters and from conversation with some of the
other spectators, and published in the Armim'an Magazine.
It will be instructive if we deal with each of the sets of documents
separately.
1. We will take ﬁrst the contemporary letters, and in the ﬁrst instance
we will consider only the statements made by the actual eye- or rather ear
witnesses of the things described: (a) Mrs. Wesley writes on January 12th,
1716-1717, that, beginning from an early date in December, she heard un
accountable knockings, mostly in the garret or the nursery :—“ One night
it made such a noise in the room over our heads, as if several people were
" Original Letters by the Rev. John Wesley and his Friends, etc., 1791.
Mm, 1899.] Cowewondence. 4'1
walking; then run up and down stairs, and was so outrageous, that we
thought the children would be frightened,'so your father and I rose and
went down in the dark to light a candle. Just as we came to the bottom
of the broad stairs, having hold of each other, on my side there seemed
as if somebody had emptied a bag of money at my feet, and on his as
if all the bottles under the stairs (which were many) had been dashed in
a thousand pieces. We passed through the hall into the kitchen, and got
a candle and went to see the children. The next night your father would
get Mr. Hoole to lie at our house, and we all sat together till one
or two o’clock in the morning, and heard the knocking as usual. Some
times it would make a noise like the winding up of a jack ; at other times,
as that night Mr. Hoole was with us, like a carpenter plaining deals;
but most commonly it knocked thrice and stopped, and then thrice again,
ever so many hours together.” That is practically all that Mrs. Wesley
relates of her own personal experience.
(b) There are two letters from Miss Susannah Wesley, dated January
24th and March 27th. In the ﬁrst she records her own experience as
follows :
“The ﬁrst night I ever heard it, my sister Nancy and I were set in
the dining-room. We heard something rustle on the outside of the doors
that opened into the garden, then three loud knocks, immediately after
other three, and in half-a-minute the same number over our heads. We
enquired whether anybody had been in the garden, or in the room above
us, but there was nobody. Soon after my sister Molly and I were up after all
the family were abed, except my sister Nancy, about some business. We
heard three bouncing thumps under our feet, which soon made us throw
away our work and tumble into bed. Afterwards the tingling of the latch
and warming-pan, and so it took its leave that night.
“ Soon after the above mentioned we heard a noise as if a great piece of
sounding metal was thrown down on the outside of our chamber. We,
lying in the quietest part of the house, heard less than the rest for a pretty
while, but the latter end of the night that Mr. Hoole sat up on, I lay in
the nursery, when it was very violent. I then heard frequent knocks over
and under the room where I lay, and at the children’s bed head, which was
made of boards. It seemed to rap against it very hard and loud, so that
the bed shook under them. I heard something walk by my bedside, like a
man in a long nightgown. The knocks were so loud that Mr. Hoole came
out of their chamber to us. It still continued. My father spoke,
but nothing answered. It ended that night with my father’s particular
knock, very ﬁerce. It is now pretty quiet, only at our repeating the
prayers for our King and prince, when it usually begins, especially when my
Father says : ‘ Our most gracious Sovereign Lord,’ etc. This my Father is
angry at, and designs to say three instead of two for the royal family. We
all heard the same noise, and at the same time, and as coming from the
same place.” .
(c) There is one letter from Miss Emily, undated, but obviously written
at about this time. She describes various noises, more particularly groans,
4:2 Journal of Society for Paychtcal Research. [MAR-.1399~
the sound as of “ a vast coal” being thrown down in the kitchen ; the sound
as of a stone being thrown in among the bottles under the “ best" stairs;
“ something like a quick winding up of a jack at the corner of the room by
my bed’s head.” Knocks on the ﬂoor and elsewhere, mostly three times
running.'
These are all the experiences which the ladies relate at ﬁrst hand. But
Emily Wesley tells us that her sister Hetty heard coming down the garret
stairs behind her " something like a man, in a loose nightgown trailing after
him : ” that the knocks would answer Mrs. Wesley, if she stamped on the
ﬂoor, and bid them do likewise; that Mrs. Wesley had seen something
under a bed “ like a badger, only without any head that was discernible” ;
and that Robin Brown, the man-servant, had seen the same creature twice,
the last time in the appearance of a white rabbit.
Miss Susannah adds, under date March 27th: “Last Sunday, to my
father's no small amazement, his trencher danced upon the table a pretty
while, without anybody’s stirring the table.”
2. The account by old Mr. Wesley was obviously in great part written very
shortly after the disturbances. It is not, however, dated ; and it is clearly
not a day by day record, as in a diary, for he is occasionally uncertain of
the exact dates, and the account is mostly written as a continuous narrative.
Mr. Wesley was the last to hear the noises, though he had been told what
other members of the family had heard. On December 21st, “ I think,” he
was awakened by nine loud knocks, apparently in the room next to his bed
room. Two or three nights later Mr. and Mrs. Wesley were both aroused
by the loud and continuous noises, and searched the house, with the
result already described in her narrative.
Thereafter he frequently heard the knocks ; they answered him when he
rapped with his stick knock for knock ; they came on the children’s bed
stead, in his own study, and in almost every room in the house ; they would
make a_ great noise at family prayers at the names of King George and the
Prince. He often spoke. but never received any articulate answer, “ only once
or twice two or three very feeble squeaks, a little louder than the chirping
of a bird, but not like the noise of rats, which I have often heard.” Often
the latch of his bedroom would be lifted, when he was in bed. Finally, he
records: “I have been thrice pushed by an invisible power, once against
the corner of my desk in the study, a second time against the door of the
matted chamber, a third time against the right side of the frame of my
study door, as I was going in.”
Of the experiences of others he tells us a good deal : that Mrs. Wesley
had seen a thing “ most like a badger" : that “ one night when the noise was
great in the kitchen, and on a deal partition, and the door in the yard, the
latch whereof was often lift up, my daughter Emilia went and held it fast on
the inside, but it was then lifted up, and the door pushed violently against
her, though nothing was to be seen on the outside”: and that Robin Brown
saw “ something come out of the copper-hole like a rabbit, but less.”
3. To turn now to the letters written in 1726. Mrs. Wesley adds to
the account which she had given nine years before, that on one occasion the
4-‘-—~~
H.
-MAm,-1899.] Coovesmondemé. "1 - . 43
sounds answered her when she knocked ; that at another time, “ Upon my
looking under the bed, something ran out pretty much like a badger” ; and
gives the following variant of the noises heard on the nocturnal journey
round the house, undertaken by herself and Mr. Wesley :——“Near the foot
(of the stairs) a large pot. of money seemed to be poured out at my waist,
and to run jingling down my nightgown to my feet. Presently after, we
heard the noise as of a vast stone thrown among several dozen of bottles
which lay under the stairs, but upon our looking no hurt was done. In the
hall the mastiff met us, crying and striving to get between us.”
Thus, in the later version the one sound, diversely interpreted, has
become two successive sounds, and various decorative details—the jingling
down the nightgown, the search among the bottles, the fright of the mastiﬂ
—have been added.
So Sister Emily, in the lateraccount, adopts and enlarges upon the
description already given in her father's account (but wanting in her own
earlier letter) of seeing the latch of the kitchen door move, and ﬁnding the
door itself resist_her efforts to shut it. So in Sister Susannah’s later
account, what had been described in her earlier letter as “ the tingling of
the latch and warming-pan,” is now ampliﬁed into “the latch of the door
then jarred, and seemed to be swiftly moved to and fro.”
Sister Molly and sister Nancy (who were not represented in the earlier
correspondence) also gave accounts of their experiences to their brother
Jack in 1726. From the latter’s account, which is written in the third
person, apparently as representing John Wesley‘s notes of a conversation
with her, the following extract may be quoted :—“One night she (Nancy)
was sitting on the press bed, playing at cards with four of my sisters, when
my sisters Molly, Etty (Hetty ?), Patty and Kezzy were in the room, and
Robin Brown. The bed on which my sister Nancy sat was lifted up with
her on it. She leaped down and said, ‘Surely old Jeffery would not run
away with her.’ However, they persuaded her to sit down again, which she
had scarce done, when it was again lifted up several times successively, a
considerable height.” This incident is not mentioned by Molly, or indeed
by any of the others.
Lastly, we have an account given by Robin Brown, the servant, in
1726, to John Wesley, conﬁrming the story of the white rabbit, already
quoted, and adding this new incident :—“ Soon after, being grinding corn in
the garrets, and happening to stop a little, the handle of the mill was turned
round with great swiftness. He said nothing vexed him, but that the mill
was empty. If corn had been in it, old Jelfery might have ground his heart
out for him.”
John Wesley’s own account, based apparently exclusively—since ho was
not himself a witness of any of the phenomena— on the correspondence and
on conversations with his family-and others in 1726, it is not necessary to
consider at length. It introduces, however, one or two sensational details,
such as his father’s threatening with a pistol, which ﬁnd no place in the
earlier narratives.
Now a record of this kind suggests two questions : ﬁrst, what precisely
44 Journal of Society for Psycluical Research. [MAR-. 1899
are the things to be explained? second, what may the explanation be?
Most, indeed, of the writers, who, from the days of Glanvil,' have formed
from a mass of similar narratives collections of supernatural seemings, have
passed at once to the second question, and have found the search for a solu
tion so fascinating, that they have never returned to look for an answer to
that indispensable preliminary enquiry. Without stopping to consider whether
their method is more honoured or discredited by long usage, I propose to
reverse it. What, then, are the things to be explained in the Wesley case ?
To begin with, we are not called upon to explain what it was that made the
handle of the mill turn round, to the amazement and chagrin of Robin
Brown. Our problem is a simpler, if also a less alluring one-—to ﬁnd out, to
wit, what made Robin Brown believe, nine years after, that he had seen the
handle of the mill move. Again, we have got to ask, not what was the
badger-like form which Mrs. Wesley saw ; but how it came about that Mrs.
Wesley’s husband and dahghter, in 1717, and Mrs. Wesley herself in 1726,
testiﬁed that she had seen such a form. Nor need the vagaries of Mr.
Wesley’s trencher, nor Robin Brown’s spectre “somewhat like a white
rabbit,” nor the door which resisted the stoutest efforts of Emilia, perplex
us. Our problem, in fact, as now simpliﬁed, is to search for a rational
explanation of various noises, suggesting, indeed, an intelligent, but not
obviously a supernormal origin, which disturbed the Wesley household for
a couple of months in 1716-7.
Old Samuel Wesley had at the time seven daughters living, of whom two,
Patty and Keziah, were children, and ﬁve were, apparently, suﬂiciently
grown up to write letters. Of these ﬁve, two are represented in the earlier
correspondence, four in the later. One only, Hetty (Mehetabel) has
contributed no account at all. There is no obvious reason for this silence,
for Hetty, as we learn from John VVesley’s account, was nineteen at the
time. She had, apparently, undertaken to write, but failed to carry out her
promise:* and by the testimony of all those concerned, she seems to have
enjoyed more of Jeffery’s attention than any other member of the household.
Consider, for instance, these extracts from the correspondence :—
Mrs. Wesley writes, January 26th and 27th, 1716-7 :—“ All the family. as
well as Robin, were asleep when your father and I went downstairs (on the
nocturnal exploration already described) nor did they wake in the nursery
when we held the candle close by them, only we observed that Hetty
trembled exceedingly in her sleep, as she always did before the noise
-awaked her. It commonly was nearer her than the rest.” Or consider,
again, this extract from Miss Emily’s letter (1717) :-—“No sooner was I
got upstairs, and undressing for bed, but I heard a noise among many
bottles that stand under the best stairs, just like the throwing of a great
stone among them, which had broken them all to pieces. This made me
hasten to bed; but my sister Hetty, who sits always to wait on my father
going to bed, was still sitting on the lowest step of the garret stairs.”
And again: “It never followed me as it did my sister Hetty. I have
* See Miss Susannalﬁs letter of March 27th, 1717.
MAR., 1899.] Correspondence. 45
‘______~
been with her when it has knocked under her, and when she has removed
has followed, and still kept just under her feet.”
Again, in Mrs. Wesley's later account, after describing loud noises which
they heard in their bedroom, she writes : “ Mr. Wesley leapt up, called;
Hetty, who alone was up,' and searched every room in the house.”
In sister Susannah’s later account :—“ Presently began knocking about a
yard within the room on the ﬂoor. ' It then came gradually to sister Hetty’s.
bed, who trembled strongly in her sleep. It beat very loud, three strokes
at a time, on the bed's head."
And, once more, in John Wesley’s version of Mr. Hoole’s experience :
“ When we (i.e., Mr. Wesley and Mr. Hoole) came into the nursery it was
knocking in the next room; when we -were there it was knocking in the _.
nursery, and there it continued to knock, though we came in, particularly i
I
I
I
l
.<.,r=<—_»_.-,.-—.-+5“._ll
at the head of the bed (which was of wood), in which Miss Hetty and'
two of her younger sisters lay.”
After the perusal of these extracts, Miss Hetty’s inexplicable reticence
seems more than ever to be deplored. And in view of this reticence, and
of Miss Hetty’s singular habit of trembling in a sound sleep when loud
noises were going on all round her, and of the notable predilection shown
by the Poltergeists for her person, it hardly seems worth while to enquire
whether the noises which perplexed the Wesley family did indeed proceed
from a supernormal source.
In brief, my contention is that the only reason for the inexplicable
element to which Dr. Wallace refers in these narratives, is the defect of the
evidence. When we have only secondhand accounts, or narratives written
down months or years after the event—as in Glanvil’s and Hahn’s accounts
—we ﬁnd an abundance of marvellous incidents; when, as in the Wesley
case, we have almost contemporary accounts at ﬁrst-hand from sober-minded
witnesses, the element of the marvellous is reduced to a minimum. But the _
peculiarly instructive feature of the Wesley letters is that we can see how i
the witnesses, whilst they narrate of their own personal experience only
comparatively tame and uninteresting episodes, allow their imaginations to
embellish somewhat the experiences of other members of the household;
and that these same embellishments, nine years later, are incorporated in
the ﬁrst-hand accounts, as genuine items of personal experience.
I have left little space to answer Mr. Lang’s letter. But, indeed, there
are not many points, I trust, in which we differ. I gladly accept the
correction of my surmise (1) as to a case given by Miss Angus ; and (2) I do
not value the evidence of Miss Angus less, because I value that of Mrs.
Piper more. Nor do I think that the strength of the Piper evidence for
clairvoyance or some other supernormal faculty at all depends on the proof
of the identity of her “ spirits.” (3) As to the Home evidence, I am not
satisﬁed with any theory that I have yet seen; but I still think it more
likely that the explanation of the phenomena attested will ultimately prove
to be a psychological one; a novel form of hallucination, rather than a
manifestation of a new physical force.
FRANK PonnoRrz.
THE
SOCIETY
FOR
PSYGHICAL
RESEARCH.
91¢
INCOME
AND
EXPENDITURE
ACCOUNT
FOR
THE
YEAR
ENDING
31st
DECEMBER,_18§8.
-
e31’.
-
2
s.
d.
£
s.
d.
ﬁr.
£
5‘.
d.
£
s.
d.
g1898.
-Tan.1.—-To
Cash
Balance
brought
forward
-
1898.
Dec.
31.—By
Literary
\Vork
14
9-
0
g
from
last
account
122
10
2
,,
Editorial
Work
100
Q
'0
,,
,,
in
hands
of
Secretary
10
0
0,,
Library
Committee
8
15
0
E,''
132
10
2,,
Hypnotic
,,
1
1
0Q
Dec.
31.—
,,
Subscriptions:—
£
s.
d.
,,
Printing
:—'
\
,,
Members
(1897)
4
4
0
Proceedings,
Part
XXXIII.
273
2
8
n
'n
258
6
0-
' n
n
V‘
(Reprint)
m
0
-0
g
,,
.,
(1899)
12
12
0
Journal,
Nos.
145
—153-...
87
6
0
3
——
275
2
0
Title
Page,Index
(1’roc.Vol.
XIII.)
5
18
6
of
,,
Associates
(1897)
-24
3
0
General
14
1
9.
=5:
,,
,,
(1898)
423
13
0
—
400
8
11
\
,,
,,
(1899)
39
8
0_
' ,,
Covers
and
Binding
22
1
9
Q
-
487
4
0
'' ,,
Early
Nos.
of
Journal
'0
6
0
8
_
762
6
0_
,,
General
Meetings
43
'14
0
pw
,,
Life
Subscriptions
'21
0
0,,
Advertising
..
2
2
0
,,
Donations
21
0
0,,
Salary
to
Secretary
(12
mos.
to
Sept.,
1898). -,,
Publications
:—
;
’and
Commission
on
Subscriptions,
&o.
(1897)
I50
12
0
;
_
Per
Kegan
Paul.
Trench,
,,
Rent
(12
months
to
Michaelmas,
1898)
45
0
0 Triibner
St
Co.
(July
1897,
,,
Housekee
r(12
months,
19,
Buckingham-st.)
15
0
0
Q -
to
June,
1898)
62
10'
9-
,,
Reading
00m
and
Stationery
4'15
0
N ,,-
,,
Secretary
(1898)
35
11
0,,
Second
Sight
Inquiry
40
0
0
m ,,
,,
Sec.
of
American
Branch,,
Storage
of
Proceedings
5'12
6
g
'Supplies
to
Membe1s
of
-.
'_
,,
Postage
(Secretary’s)
104
17
1
(\
American
Branch
(July
1,
,,
,.
(Publications
to
America,Branch
a/c)
26
3
3
Q
1897,
toJuno
30,
1898)
150
5
0,,
Gas...
-
2
1910
2
n
,.
S8198
in
America
(July
1,
.,,
Travellin
Expenses
(Members
of
Council)
4
I3
0
F‘
"1897,
to'June
30,
1898)
44
17
10,,
General
x
nses
43
14
4
-~——
293
4
7
,,
Balance
in
ands
of
Treasurer
£268
3
11
F‘ Q»
Interest
on
Investment
'
84
7
10,,
,,
' ,,
Secretary
10
0
0_
E
2
-—
27
8
3g
11
_:=
_'—'_'_—
5
;~
'
£1,314
8
7
'
£1,314
8
7
l 8
—‘—'——'
~
~
.
A_______~
MAR, 1899.] ' ' '1-‘*’'~ Case. ' "
f 'I have examined the Books of Account of the'Society, and having com
paredthem with the above Statement, certify them to be in accordance
herewith.' The Treasurer’s certiﬁcate as to the cheques in his hands 'and
uncollected, together with the Balance at the Bank, as shown by the pass
book, agrees with the above Statement.
I have seen vouchers for payments and the Certiﬁcate of the East Indian
Railway Irredeemable Stock, representing the Invested Funds of the Society.
ARTHUR MIALL. F.C.A., Auditor.
23, St. Swithin’s Lane, 11.0.,
Jamwvry 25th, 1899.
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY FUND.
Account for 1898.
RECEIvED. PAID.
£ s. (1 £ s. (1.
Balance from 1897 O 18 10 For Books... 8 5 9
Interest on Consols... 1 7 1 For Binding 2 0 1
Interest on Mid. Uruguay Balance carried forward 1 7 11_
Railway 4 7 0 '
Interest on Buenos Aires
Water and Drainage 5 O 10
11 13 9 11 13 9
Audited and found correct, and securities produced this day,
Februa/ry 3rd. 1899. H. ARTmm SMITH.
CASE.
L. 01. 1112.1
The following incident, sent by Lieut. G. N. Chase, Associate of
the American Branch, resembles, as he justly remarks, the case
numbered L. C1. 1110 in the January Jam~nal._
Santa Barbara, Cal., January 28th, 1899.
In the spring of 1892, while living in Posadena, Cal., I was doing ‘some
work in my garden—planting corn-—when I noticed that my class ring was
being unnecessarily worn by friction upon the handle of the tool I was
using, and I removed it and placed it in my right trousers pocket. An hour
or two later, having _ﬁnished the work, I put my hand in my pocket to
replace the ring upon my ﬁnger, and discovered that it was gone. There
was no hole in the pocket by which 'it could have been lost. I had, 'after
placing the ring in'my pocket, passed about the lot which had just been
ploughed, inspecting some orange trees for scale. After a;fruitless search
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1899.
where I had been working, I followed my trail as I had wandered about the
ploughed ground, looking for it with no better success. I remembered dis~
tinctly, I thought, that I had been nowhere else. I was at that time an
invalid, and exceedingly nervous, and the loss of the ring disturbed me. I
was greatly worried, and returned to the spot where I had been working,
and raked and sifted the ground over till the light began to fail at sunset,
and, exercised far beyond my strength, I then went into the house and
threw myself down upon a loungecompletely exhausted. My wife (since
deceased) spoke to me, saying that she felt that -I would ﬁnd it again. I had
lain there perhaps ten minutes when I got up, with no deﬁned intention of
doing anything, went outside, where it was almost dark, went directly
underneath an orange tree that I had no recollection whatever of having
visited, and which was not in the part of the lot that had been ploughed,
but which stood in a lawn of very thick Bermuda grass, fully six inches
high. I knelt underneath the tree and, parting the thick matted grass, at
once and without searching, placed my hand on the ring.
Once, two years before, my wife lost, as she supposed, her bracelets.
She and I looked for them at odd times for months afterward. She was
positive that she had not lost them out of doors, and remembered that an
acquaintance had called shortly before she missed them. Failing to ﬁnd
them after so much patient and thorough_ searching, she gave them up as
lost and [as stolen. One day as I lay resting on the bed in our room, I
thought of the lost bracelets, and, getting up, I went to a small bracket on
the wall, covered with a lambrequin, and, reaching up in the corner under
neath and out of sight, I took the bracelets from a nail, and where she now
remembered she had hung them when we went driving together, leaving the
house alone, fearing burglarious tramps.
In this case it is possible, of course, that I saw her put them there, and
had forgotten the fact, and the ﬁnding of them had no supernormal sig
niﬁcance, bu't, taken in connection with the ﬁnding of the ring and the fact
that I have had several minor instances of the sort, I report it.
G. N. CHAsE, Lieut. U.S. Army (Retired),
Associate Mem. Ann. Br.
“ HAUNTED HOUSES.”
A report has been in rather extensive circulation that two literary
men have, within the last few months, left their houses in St. John’s
Wood, London, on account of “disturbances” which they were unable
to explain. If any reader of the Journal can give any information as
to a real basis for such a report it would be gratefully received by the
Editor. Particulars of any reports of alleged “ hauntings ” which
present a fair case for enquiry would be gladly received at the Rooms
of the Society, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
No. CLVIII.—VoL. IX. APRIL, 1899.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RESEARCH.
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. 49'
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 50
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ._ 51
Correspondence :
Human Magnetism .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 51
Clairvoyance and Poltergeis .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 56
Mr. Petrovo-solovovo and the Evidence for Independent Slate-writing .. .. 57
Cases .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 58-
Exposure of :3. Trick Code .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6].
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Zlfembers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
CAMPBELL-LANG, MIss, 3, Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, London,W.
Crackanthorpe, Montague, Q.C., 65, Rutland-gate, London, S.W.
DAWsoN, LIEUT.-CoL. HENRY P., Hartlington, Burnsall, Skipton.
FARMER, W. M., 18, Bina—gardens, London, S.W.
FoTHERINGHAM, \V. B., 19, St. John’s-road, Westcliﬁ"-on-Sea, Essex.
GHosH, RAI KALI PRAsANNA, Dacca, Bengal, India.
JoNEs, E. LLoYD, M.D., Corpus Buildings, Cambridge.
LYELL, DAvID, Ard-choille, The Ware Road, Hoddesdon, Herts.
Monteith, Mrs. James, The Worthys, Kingsworthy, Winchester.
Payne, Ernest, M.A., A.I.E.E., I-Iatchlands, Cuckﬁeld, Sussex.
RITCHIE, MIss M., 165, Claphanrroad, London, S.W.
RoTCH, C. B., Trinity Hall, Cambridge.
STANGE, MISs F. M., 12, Holland-park, London, W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BARRETT, HARRIsoN D., Box 3, Needham, Mass.
BLAKEsLEY, THEoDoRE S., 286, Marshﬁeld-avenue, Chicago, Ill.
OHATWIN, JAMEs, 926, Fairmountavenue, Phila., Pa.
50 Journal of Society for Psychicrtl Reseun-ch. [Anna 1899.
CoE, MIss M. A, 55, Brook-street, Brookline, Mass.
CRANE, A. J., 218, Walnut-street, Montclair, NJ.
DAvIDsON, H. A., 189, Montague-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
HEYsINGEB, DR. IsAAC W., 1521, Poplar-street, Phila., Pa.
LAY, DR. VVILFRID, 251, W. 109 Street, New York, N.Y.
LoUNsBERY, MRs. RICHARD P., 12 East 35th Street, New York, N.Y.
LUKENs, DR. ANNA, 1068, Lexington-avenue, New York, N.Y.
LUNGER, JoHN B., New York Life Insurance Co., New York, N.Y.
MCKEssoN, J. E., Lebanon, Mo.
MEANs, MIss EvELYN B., care of Miss Gano, Asheville, N.C.
lllRxna, J., 10, Chestnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
RoCKWELL, A. E. P., 80, East Concord-street, Boston, Mass.
SCHUBMEHL, FRANK E., M.D., 87, Brighton-avenue, Allston, Mass.
STEWART, JosEPH, P. 0. Department, Washington, D.C.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council was held on March 10th at the Rooms
-of the Society. Mr. H. Arthur Smith was voted to the chair. There
were also present, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. F. Podmore, Dr. G. F.
Rogers, Sir A. K. Stephenson, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
The Hon. Everard Feilding and Mr. J. G. Smith were co-opted as
lMembers of the Council for the current year.
Three new Members and ten new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected. The election of seventeen
new Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
Mr. Montague Crackanthorpe, Q.C., was proposed for co-optation
on the Council at its next meeting.
The Council recorded with regret the death of Mr. Thomas C. Hine,
an Associate of the Society.
Some presents to the Library were acknowledged with thanks to
the donors.
The House and Finance Committee presented a report accompanied
by an estimate of Income and Expenditure for the current year. It
was resolved that the recommendations of the Committee be, as far as
possible, carried out.
'In addition to the General Meeting already arranged for April
28th, at 4 p.m., it was agreed that one be held in June. Friday the
23rd has subsequently been ﬁxed as the date. The chair will be taken
at 8.30 p.m.
APRIL, 1899.] Guowspondence. 51
Other matters of business having been attended to it was agreed
that the next meeting of the Council should be held on April 28th,
at the Westminster Town Hall, at 3 p.m., previous to the General
Meeting at 4 p.m. on that day.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 98th General Meeting of the S.P.R. was held in the Council
Chamber, at the Westminster Town Hall, at 8.30 p.m., on Friday,
March 10th. The chair was taken by Dr. Geo. F. Rogers, and there
was a large attendance, every seat being occupied. Miss Mary H.
Kingsley read her Paper, as announced, on “The Forms of Appari
tions in West Africa.” It is unnecessary to give a summary of the
Paper here, as it is intended to embody it in an article in the forth
coming part of the Proceedings. An interesting discussion followed,
including some illustrations of the apparently supernormal transmission
of information by African natives, across great distances of country.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers remarked that Miss Kingsley had benevolently
made it perfectly clear that the apparitions of which she spoke were
not intended to be regarded as evidential. The “one large eye”
staring in at your window-hole all night was rather too good to be
true. It had, however, been sometimes suggested that the S.P.R.
ought to show more curiosity on subjects lying just over its proper
border, as in the domain of folk-lore. Such curiosity had that night
had a rich repast in the stories told by Miss Kingsley with a
picturesqueness and intimacy of experience which few travellers could
rival.
CORRE SPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by C0rresp0nde'nts.]
HUMAN MAGNETIsM.
In a recent address Mr. Podmore stated that no effect was produced on
the human organism by the most powerful magnetisers. The radiant
eﬂluences seen by sensitives had absolutely no foundation in physics. The
minds of the sensitives simply reﬂected faithfully the ideas of their
magnetisers. In other words he infers that the mental suggestion of the
operator is the real and sole cause of the phenomena in question, perceived
by the sensitives. '
This is, of course, the view maintained by most leaders in the classic
schools of hypnotism; consequently it has the advantage of carrying the
authority of orthodoxy. Yet we know that such standards are not ﬁnal and are
subject to modiﬁcations. For instance we see some of the recognised leaders
usnm
umwnsm OF I‘-Um"S
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [A1>iuL, 1899.
of these schools aﬂirming the exaggeration of this doctrine ; that there is no
hypnotism, there is only suggestion ;* while another equally eminent
authority describes this position as “ artless ” (simplisme)i' and another again
replies that the production of the passive state is a necessary condition in
the mechanism of suggestion.I It is preferably to unbiassed experimentation
that we must turn for enlightenment, rather than to authority, while
carefully excluding the subconscious trend of preconceptions from our
judgment.
In this direction I beg to submit, in reply to Mr. Podmore’s ﬁrst statement,
that Dr. Luys showed me instantaneous photographs, illustrating the compara
tive effects produced by the respective poles of a magnet on three hypnotised
subjects. The magnet was a large straight bar, purposely prepared in such a
manner as to render the poles indistinguishable from each other in appear
ance in order to obviate suggestion. The one pole induced an expression of
contentment and satisfaction 'on the countenances ; the other induced
expressions of horror and dismay.§
He also showed me magnets used in the treatment of neuropathic
affections, made in a form to ﬁt on to the heads of the patients. The use
of these magnets had. however, been abandoned, because it was found that
they absorbed some emanation from the patients treated and transferred the
affection to the patient on whose head the magnet was subsequently placed.
This was, of course, in opposition with the desire of the Doctor who had
discovered this mode of treatment, and consequently could not have been the
effect of suggestion.
A description is given in the Revue de l’ Hypnotisme of September last
(p. 69) showing that magnets are now used in the Hotel Dieu of Paris, to
stimulate sensibility. These were probably introduced by Dr. Dumont
pallier, who discovered the transference of sensibility in the course of his
investigations into metallo-therapeutics, made in conjunction with Charcot
and Luys. ]|
With regard to the second statement advanced ; that the perception by
hypnotised subjects of radiant eﬂluence is due to suggestion. Dr. Luys had
the good fortune to ﬁnd among his subjects one who could draw and paint
while in the secondary state. He ordered this subject to paint the people
presented to him, as he saw them. It was found that the colours thus
presented were not always the same, they varied in their distribution with
different people ; the dominant colours remaining similar, but other colours
being introduced in minor quantities. This variation was found to be
accentuated in neuropathic patients. Dr. Luys consequently introduced
hysterical and paralytic patients, inebriates, and lunatics, for observation
without informing his subject. He ultimately found a correlation appeared
* Professor Bernheim, Revue de Psychologie, January, 1898. Doctor Hartenberg,
Light, p. 291, 1898.
1' Dr. Durand de Gros, Revue de Psychologic, May, 1898.
I Dr. Liébeault, Revue de l’H_l/pnotisme, May, 1898.
§ See Light, p. 247, 1897. [I See Light, p. 451, 1897.
Anna, 1899.] Correspondence. 03
~
between certain psychic disturbances and the distribution of colours as
described by his sensitive.* This was purely an experimental investigation
on the part of Dr. Luys, in which suggestion must consequently be
eliminated, as the Doctor did not know what effect on colour distribution to
expect from various neuropathic diseases.
Again in the experiments described by M. de Rochas in the ﬁrst chapter
of his E:rtér1'orisat1'0n de la Sensibilité: l’ objectivité des eﬁluces pe-rcus sous
forme de lumiére dam; l’ état hyp-notique, special care was taken to eliminate
the possibility of involuntary mental suggestion. This question receives
prominent consideration, the operators being experts in suggestion.
The experiments were made with an electro-magnet, with the commutator
so arranged that the current could be switched on and olf, or in converse
directions by the assistant, without the operator or subject seeing the action.
The assistant, in turning the switch, took care not to see himself how he
placed it, while neither M. de Rochas nor the subject could see it. The
subject was then told to describe what he saw, and his statement was noted
down. A small compass was then approached to the coil, to verify whether
a current was passing or not, and note was taken of the direction. These
data were afterwards compared with the description made by the sensitive.
In these carefully controlled conditions, when the colours were described
as reversed, the current was found to have been switched in the reverse
direction. Their cessation was found to coincide with its interruption. But
its sudden, rapid reversal was found to entail a mixed i.e., violet colour at
both poles of the magnet for a few seconds, when distinct red and blue
appeared at the respective poles.
Interruption was also effected by detaching one of the wires unknown to
the subject, who at once declared that he ceased to see anything. For the
same purpose, the zincs were lifted out of the cells, but the subject declaring
that he still saw the colours, it was found on investigation with a compass
that a current was actually passing. This was due to a few drops of acid
adhering to the base of the elements and entailing contact. More enduring
effects were found to follow the substitution of a steel core to the magnet,
instead of a soft iron one. The change was at once notiﬁed by the subject.
A description of a similar experiment made by Dr. Sajous and conﬁrming
the effects noticed by Dr. Luys is appended.
On p. 32 of above work, an instance is given of an experiment purposely
made to mislead the subject by suggestion, which, while it succeeded in part,
did not inhibit the perception of the real eﬂluence.
No student who has studied hypnotic suggestion will deny that a subject
can be made by suggestion to see a radiance issuing from the ends of a
modern dummy magnet. That is indeed a simple presentation as compared
with the complex phenomena which may be so evoked in the subject's mind.
But neither can dispassionate observers refuse to recognise the phenomena
above described. And such experiments could easily be repeated by
unbiassed operators. Yet such is the force of mental suggestion that an
* See Light, p. 247, 1897.
54~ Jowmal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL,1899.
operator, determined to nullify such experiments, could do so; just as a
strongly positive and hostile investigator can spoil the manifestations
through an entranced medium.
The physical foundation of this radiation is dealt with in the same work.
The discoveries of Dr. Edward Branby* with regard to the analogies sub
sisting between the functioning of an intermittant electric radio conductor in
wireless telegraphy and man’s neuric circulation, have an important bearing
on this question, as constituting the ﬁrst steps in a new direction of research,
the development of which may establish further analogies between man’s
psychic radiation and the “ ﬁeld” of an electro-magnet, and thus present a
“foundation in physics” not yet recognised.
With regard to the pretension that “ the whole of animal magnetism is
founded on misconception,” I would point out that this attitude can scarcely
be maintained after studying the demonstrations of Professor Boirac (head
of the Grenoble University). This experimentalist showed in the Revue de
Psychologie,'l‘ of May 1st, that suggestion and snesmerism are two distinct
independent agents, which may replace and counterfeit each other or
supplement and combine together. “We may have suggestion without
mesmerism, or mesmerism without suggestion ; a pseudo-mesmerism may
occur which really is only suggestion, and a pseudo-suggestion which really
is only mesmerism ; while a suggestive mesmerism or mesmeric suggestion
may also be effected, in which the two are indivisibly combiner .”
The simultaneously combined effects of suggestion and of magnetism acting
independently in the same subject were illustrated, followed by demonstra
tions of the eﬂects of magnetic action in opposition with and inhibiting the
effect of suggestion.
Illustrations were given in Light, p. 297, 1897, of demonstrations by the
same operator of the transmission of this energy along a copper wire from a
distance, inducing local anaesthesia in a blindfolded subject, apart from
suggestion.
I myself, acting under Professor Boirac’s instruction, have reproduced
some of his experiments. Holding my hand pointed at the knee of a blind
folded subject, at a few inches distance, local anaesthesia was produced after
a few minutes. I did not know whether I would succeed, as I had seen other
experimenters fail. The subject was in his normal state, consequently not
suggestible.
Professor Boirac then took hold of the hand of one of the experimenters
who had failed to induce the phenomenon and told him to try again,
followed by successful results, showing that the inﬂuence was transmitted
from the Professor through the experimenter to the subject. Other experi
ments of this relay transmission were also made.
The demonstrations of the exteriorisation of sensibility, described by M.
de Rochas in the work already referred to; by Dr. Luys in his Annales ole
Psychiatric et Hypawlogie, 1892; by Professor Boirac as above referred toi; by
* Revue dc Z’ Hypnotiame, Light, p. 400, 1898.
1' See Light, p. 426, 1898. I See Light, p. 296, 1897.
APRIL, 1899.] - ' Uorrespondencé. 00
Dr. P. Joire, of the Psychological Institute, of Lille,* bring new considerations
to bear on the reality of an eﬂluence, which have not yet been examined by the
“ classic authorities” who are always slow to admit discoveries which come
in conﬂict with recognised standards. The determinations of movements in
subjects by magnetic attraction apart from suggestion illustrated by Professor
Boirac and by Dr. Moutinf constitute new evidence which impartial judg
ment cannot ignore.
It is impossible to repeat the descriptions of these experiments in detail
here. They may be read in the articles referred to. One striking fact I
will quote bearing on the reality of an ellluence and the possibility of its
being stored in a condenser.
Professor Boirac accumulated his magnetic radiation in a bottle of water
standing in his dining-room. He then sent his manservant, who was also a
subject, from another room in his normal state, to bring him a glass of water
from the decanter in the dining-room. The contact with the magnetism
stored in the water bottle threw the subject into the secondary state. Dr.
Luys repeated this experiment successfully.
As Professor Boirac says in his preface to Gasc-Desfossé’s book: " IPure
telepathy apart from a substantial medium would be a miracle ; a fact with
out relation to the rest of the universe. Rather does it appear to consist in
a force that radiates from the human brain and carries with it, not indeed
man’s thought and will, but an eﬂiuence that transmits and reproduces a
message at the end of the line.”
A striking instance of the reality of magnetic radiation and of the validity
of the supernormal faculties (apart from suggestion) developed by magnetic
passes (eﬂluence) is given by an English M.D.
The Doctor had as patient a retired Major, previously in service in India.
Conversation having turned on these questions, the Major requested the
Doctor to take hold of his hand. Immediately on contact being established
the Doctor felt a strong vibration passing through his arm, producing a
sensation similar to that entailed by an electric current. The Major then
told the Doctor that he had always possessed this inﬂuence, which gave him
a strong command over his men. He had. however, ceased using it since the
following experiences, which had really frightened him. He had one day,
acting with her consent, mesmerised his sister-in-law. As an experiment he
placed in her hands an unopened letter, just arrived from India, of the
contents of which he was consequently ignorant, and commanded her to read;
it. She held it unopened in her hands and communicated the contents to
the Major. On opening the letter subsequently her reading was found to be
correct.§
* See Light, p. 135, 1898.
'1' Le Diagnostic dc la Suggestibilité, and in Light p. 339, 1897.
I See Idght, p. 178, 1898.
§ The above is a perfectly correct account of what took place at the interview
between the Major and myself, and also accurately describes the incident of the letter
told me by the Major.-—M.D.
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1899.
/
It is to be regretted that no opportunity for the study of experimental
psychology exists in England. The analysis of descriptions of other men’s
work or of certiﬁed phenomena, is but a barren method of study as compared
is rather by direct experimentation in the effects which may be exerted at a
/I with observation of actual experimentation. As Professor Boirac says : “ It
distance by one human being on another, that we shall come to understand
the phenomenon of telepathy and not by an endless collecting of cases of
spontaneous telepathy such as is effected by the Psychical Research Society.”
Professor Boirac, Dr. Joire, M. de Rochas, Dr. Moutin, could no doubt be
If a psychological laboratory existed here, the experiments of Dr. Luys,
epeated by English operators. England might then also present some
original contributions to experimental psychology.
QumsToR VITE.
Dr. Sajous relates the following :—He was attending the reception of
out-patients at a hospital in Paris, and observed among the patients a young
woman, whom he ascertained to be unknown to the other doctors present.
So far as they knew, she had not previously presented herself at that
hospital. He then took her to the physical laboratory; and having
hypnotised her, presented to her the poles of an electro-magnet, which was
actuated by a battery, the plates of which could be lifted out of the cells by -
means of a framework, so that the patient could not discover either by sight or
hearing when the current was ﬂowing. He was surprised at the attraction
which the pole, that she described as showing red light, exercised upon her ;
she struggled to be allowed to bathe her hands in it. The other pole, on the
contrary. which showed to her blue light, just as strongly repelled her and
caused her to shrink away from it. One or two of the other doctors assisted
him in this experiment. The current was from time to time interrupted;
and the patient observed the cessation of the luminous phenomena and
their re-appearance.
This story was told to me in June, 1893. Dr. Sajous then lived at
28, Rue de Madrid, Paris. A MEMBER oF SIP R.
CLAIRvoYANCE AND PoLTERGEIsTs.
SIR,—To follow Mr. Podmore in his reply to a portion of my contentions
is needless, as I am content to leave the question to the judgment of any
earnest enquirer who will read the evidence at length in the works I have
referred to. A great deal of his minute criticism tending to discredit the
witnesses seems to me to be of exactly the same character as the well-known
Historic Doubts c0ncernin-g Napoleon Buonapwrte of Archbishop Whateley,
or the still cleverer jezwc d’esprit on the ﬁrst Chinese war, which I have not
seen since I was a youth, and a reference to which I shall be glad if any of
your readers can give me.
I will make one or two brief observations only, on Mr. Podmore’s
“historic doubts.” He says that Councillor Hahn’s evidence is not “ex
ceptionally good,” because written 18 months after the events. But what
APRIL,H1899.] Correspondence. 57
events! Things going on for two months, almost daily and hourly, of the
most marvellous and antecedently incredible character, witnessed by his
friend and by many other persons none of whom could even suggest any
explanation of them. His detailed account shows to my mind that he
did keep full notes at the time, but even if he did not, the facts were
such as were never to be forgotten. And his giving this account to Dr.
Kerner for publication in after life, when he was a person of some otﬁcial
standing, is a guarantee of his earnestness that we should not overlook.
I also protest against what seems to me an interpretation of part of Mrs.
Wesley’s evidence that is wholly unjustiﬁed by the facts. She narrates how,
going down the stairs with her husband, two sounds were heard, “on my
side” like a bag of money emptied, “and on his” as if a quantity of bottles
were smashed. Mr. Podmore says this means that there was only one sound
differently interpreted by the two people ! And because in another account
she says that these sounds were not simultaneous, that therefore she is not
to be believed, and, generally, that nothing at all occurred but what could
have been, and therefore in all probability was produced by one of the
daughters, Hetty, who did not give her own account of what happened in
addition to the accounts of the eight other members of the family !
This is quite in the style of “ historic doubts,” and as such I leave it to
your readers.
ALFRED R. WALLACE.
MR. PETRovo-SoLoVovo AND THE EvIDENCE FoR INDEPENDENT
SLATE-WRITING.
St. Petersburg, March 1/13 [1899].
DEAR SIR,—In reply to Professor Shufeldt’s letter on independent
'slate-writing in the March Journal, may I be permitted to point out that
when speaking of Dr. Elliott Coues’s experiments, I was careful to lay
special stress on the fact that they were corroborated by a gentleman, Mr.
William Emmette Coleman, who has gained a wide notoriety as an exposer
of mediumistic frauds? There is no mention whatever of this circumstance
in Professor Shufeldt’s letter, which I confess I am unable to understand.
Mr. Co1eman’s testimony to the genuineness of Mrs. Francis's psychography
is the more valuable, because in the case of another well-known medium,
viz., Fred Evans, he has repeatedly asserted the fraudulent character of the
same slate-writing performances.
Readers of Solovyolf’s A Modern Priestess of Isis in Dr. W. Leaf’s
translation will remember that a contribution by Mr. Coleman “On the
Sources of Mme. Blavatsky's Writings,” was deemed by the translator (and
so, presumably by the S.P.R. Council) of suﬂicient importance to be inserted
in that book.
I suppose I am therefore still entitled to ask, why should his evidence
be ignored in the present case?
As for the quotations Professor Shufeldt makes from some of Dr. Coues’s
earlier writings I am not concerned with them. Of course, there can be but
58 Journal of Society for Pay/cIricrtt Reseunch. [APum 1899.
one opinion about them ! My (supposed) belief in “ tricks” has nothing to
do with the question whether independent slate-writing (which I have never
seen) exists or not, nor with the cases I have adduced. However, I am
ready to admit that, both from the study of the literature of the subject and
from personal experience, I have been driven to the conclusion that amidst
a great deal of fraud and delusion there do exist some physical phenomena
inexplicable by known laws of nature, and connected with persons who—for
want of a better term—are called mediums, but I fail to see how this purely
personal circumstance can be of general interest.
At any rate this belief has never blinded me to possibilities of fraud, and
I confess there still remains a good deal of scepticism in my mind. Hoping
that this little controversy may perhaps induce Mr. Coleman himself to make
a statement on the subject of Mrs. Francis’s slate-writing, I am, dear Sir,
very truly yours’ MICHAEL PETRovo-SoLovovo.
P.S.—Returning to Professor Shufeldt’s assertion that from my point of
view I ought to regard Dr. Coues’s statements about the smelling and weigh
ing of ghosts, etc., as proofs, I will content myself with replying : (1) That I
have never pretended that we need attach any value to such uncorroborated
and unproved assertions, be he who makes them scientiﬁcally eminent or not;
(2) That the aforesaid assertions have nothing in common with the detailed
accounts of the experiments with Mrs. Francis, to which Mr. Coleman has
borne witness ; and (3) That Dr. Coues’s statements as to his having
examined the toe-nails and ﬁnger-nails of “ghosts” and portion of their
hair only show that he must have been grossly deceived by professional
materialising mediums—in common with many other people not necessarily
insane or dishonest. As for the fact of his having said or printed such
things—that is surely deplorable !—M.P—S.
CASES.
S. 15.
The following case was communicated by M. Petrovo-Solovovo. It
was published in the Rebus in 189° :—
I am at present in my 61st year. The inexplicable phenomenon, which I
witnessed, took place 45 years ago in October, 1846. My father, a controller
of the Tver Court of Exchequer, lived in the merchant Nazaroff’s house at
the corner of Semionovskaia-street, in Tver. This house was built of stone,
and had two ﬂoors, the upper part being occupied by the Nazaroff family,
whilst my father and family lived in the lower ; there were no other
inhabitants in the house. . . . . Our family consisted of my father,
mother, two sisters of my father, one of whom was a widow, and the other
an old maid, and myself, a boy 15 years old, who was then in the 5th class
of the Tver Gymnasium. In the Nazaroltfs’ service were a cook, a maid,
and a coachman, who had also charge of the court-yard (dc0’rnik); and we
had a cook and a maid, who were both our serfs. As the Nazaroif family
led a very modest and patriarchal life, we had the habit, as soon as my father
APRIL, 1899.] Cases. 59
had left the house, after 6 p.m., to attend to his olﬁcial duties, of having the
gate (leading into the yard) locked and the key given to the dvormilc; his
room was connected with the gate by a wire and bell, and he used to open
the gate when the bell had been rung. .
My father was in the habit of purchasing every year, in January and
February, ﬁrewood for the whole year, part of which, with our landlord’s
permission, was placed under the porte cochére and close to the wall of the
granary. There must have been some three or four sajénes* of them. These
logs were rather large, probably weighing not less than 7 pounds each.
I shall now describe the phenomenon itself; it is very vividly impressed on
my memory, though nearly half a century old. In the ﬁrst half of October,
I think, my father had as usual gone at 7 p.m. to the Court of Exchequer.
to attend to his oﬂicial duties, where he stayed as late as 11 and sometimes
12 o’clock ; my mother and aunts sat down to work, and I began to prepare
my lessons for next day. About 10 p.m. our maid Martha entered the bed
room where my aunts were sitting and said : “ What is taking place in our
yard? Someone is stealing the wood, I have heard several logs falling.” I
was rather an audacious boy, and felt tired of sitting and working, so I
availed myself of this opportunity and began to ask Martha to bring in a
candle, as the night was dark, and it was still darker under the porte
cochére ; my mother and aunts also followed us. When in the yard, I heard
a log falling down from the pile, and, about two minutes later, another one.
I tried to come nearer with a candle, but my mother laid hold of me and
would not let me go. Someone was sent to wake up Nicholas, the di:ornilc;
he came in, lit a lantern and even began to make the sign of the cross when
he heard the noise made by the logs falling. I have forgotten to add that
the yard at the Nazaroffs’ was paved with stone. . . . The (lc0'rnik
asserted that he had looked the gate immediately after my father had gone
out and showed the key ; the back-door, leading into the garden, also proved
to be locked ; consequentlya man would have been unable to enter the yard.
The Nazaroffs heard us talking in the yard and came out also, so that we
were twelve in number; three candles and a lantern were brought in and
threw suﬂlcient light both over the logs of wood and all the space under
the porfe cochére, and this is what we all saw: out of the middle of the pile
(not from the top of it, but out of the middle) a log would ﬂy forth and fall
down on the ﬂoor three arschin off. All the persons present were greatly
frightened and pressed close to each other. I proved to be the most
courageous of all and persuaded the dvornik to come with me nearer the logs
of wood ; he carrying a lantern and myself a candle. I thought that
perhaps a cat had got in between the wall and the logs, and tried to put my
hand [there], but could not do it, as the logs were quite close to the wall.
Meanwhile the logs would ﬂy out with short intervals. This bombardment
with logs lasted for about 40 minutes, 27 in all being thrown out ; and
another remarkable thing was that the empty space, which remained after a
log had ﬂown out was not ﬁlled up with other logs and that we noticed no
* 1 sajém-=7 feet
60 Journal of Society for 1%-;1/cluicat Res-ewr-ch. [APsn.,1s99.
movement due to the upper logs coming down, and yet in the morning the
pile proved to be quite compact and without any holes. The dcormTk picked
up the logs which had been thrown out and placed them close to another
wall. The logs had not ﬂown out of one place only but out of several ; but
always from the middle of the pile, not from the top of it or from the sides.
In the morning, when going to my gymnasium I met the dvomik and asked
him to try and pull a log out of the middle of the pile. Nicholas, a robust
man of about 30, in spite of all his etforts was unable to pull out of the
middle of the pile a single log. ()f course, all my relatives, as well as the
proprietors of the house, put down the whole thing to the domovoi (house
spirit) and his tricks.
None of the other witnesses of this phenomenon are alive at present;
even a person younger than myself—Nathalie, a daughter of the widow of
Nazarotfs son—died in the seventies.
I would have absolutely no reason to invent such a story ; and it seems
to me that I can be trusted, seeing that I am 60 years old and have served
three Emperors in the Ministry of Public Instruction for 40 years.
IvAN KoUPREYANoFF,
Late Inspector of the Tver District School,
belonging to the nobility of Tver.
P. 260.
THE “WIDE WoRLD MAGAzINE,” 1898, P. 361.
“From .Khcwtoum to the Source of the Nile.”—Dr. R. W. Felkin.
Dr. Felkin assures us that the following case is by no means unique
in his experience :—
I came across many medicine men and wizards ; some of them claim to
transform themselves into lions, jackals, hyenas, etc., at night, and in this
guise to travel immense distances in a remarkably short time. They are
also said to have the power of divination, to restore lost cattle, tell fortunes,
and perform other miraculous feats. In the morning, they are supposed to
return to their natural shape, and can give information concerning what has
happened at any distance.
Now, though I can offer no explanation whatever as to the methods of
these wizards, I had ample opportunity of verifying, in a very startling way,
the powers of one of their number, whose portrait I give you. In the ﬁrst
place, the wizard generally partakes of some root known only to himself,
which induces a very heavy sleep. No one is allowed to touch him whilst in
this condition, but when he wakes next morning he professes to be able to
tell you all about the future. The experience I am about to relate with one
of these people happened at Lado, on my return from Uganda, in company
with Emin Pasha.
I had not received any letters from Europe for a year, and was, of course,
very anxious to get some. I knew quite well that a good many must be
waiting for me somewhere, but it was hardly likely that they would come to
hand for some time, because the Nile was blocked by the ﬂoating islands of
APRIL, 1899.] Exposure of 00 Trick Code. 61
grass. One morning, however, a man came into our tent, in a state of great
excitement. The local m’logo, or wizard, he said, had been roaming the
country the night before in the form of a jack-al. He had, the messenger
went on, visited a place called Meschera-er-Rek (which was some 550 miles
distant from Lado, our camping-place), and had seen two steamers, one of
them with mails for our party. Also, the steamers were commanded by a
white pasha, who was minutely described. Now, in the ordinary course of
nature the man could not possibly have covered so vast a stretch of country
in one night—nor even in twenty nights. I ridiculed the whole thing as
absolutely absurd. We were having our coﬂ'ee at the time, and Emin
seemed inclined to give credence to the story, for he suddenly rose up and
said he would have the man brought before him. In due time the wizard
(whose portrait here is reproduced) was marched into our tent, and Emin at
once addressed him in Arabic, saying, “ Where did you go to last night ?”
“ I was at Meschera-er-Rek,” he replied in the same tongue.
“ What were you doing there ?”
“ I went to see some friends.”
“ What did you see ?”
“ I saw two steamers arTiving from Khartoum.”
“ Oh ! this is nonsense. You could not possibly have been at Meschera~
er-Rek last night.”
“ I was there,” came the tacit rejoinder, “and with the steamers was an
Englishman —a short man with a big beard.”
“ Well, what was he doing—what was his mission ?”
“He says that the great Pasha at Khartoum has sent him, and he has
got some papers for you. He is starting overland to-morrow to come to
you, bringing the papers with him, and he will be here about thirty days
from now.”
As a matter of fact, concluded Dr. Felkin, the m’logo’s statement proved
absolutely correct. In thirty-two days an Englishman did arrive in our
camp, bringing letters for us from Khartoum. More than this, we knew
from the wizard’s description that Lupton Bey, and none other, was the man
who was coming. We were disappointed at the news that Lupton brought,
because, although he had removed twenty-six miles of grass obstruction,
there was still too much of it for us to think of returning to Khartoum by
steamer. As to the wizard, I am quite satisﬁed in my mind that he had
never in his life been very far outside his own village. The guess-work
theory is quite out of the question, the circumstances being quite extra
ordinary and the overland journey most unusual.
EXPOSURE OF A TRICK CODE.
The following letter from the Mayor of Crewe to Professor Lodge
(which the writer kindly allows us to print here) is of interest as
describing the ingenious detection of an ingenious trick. The name
of the tricksters has been changed.
62 Journal of Society for Ps|z/chical .R68e(.l/)‘ClL. [APRIL,1899.
.- . __
Winterley House, near Crewe, March 14th, 1899.
DEAR. PRoFsssoR LoDGE,—I derive some little consolation to-day from
the proverb “ It’s only fools who never change their minds.” I wrote you
on the 10th that I believed the thought transmission phenomena of the
Brothers Jones to be genuine. I write to-day to say that I am quite con
vinced they are produced by trickery.
I know you would have been greatly interested if I could have reported
genuine phenomena, but I believe you will in some degree be interested to
hear how such can be imitated by clever tricksters.
The modus operandi of the Brothers Jones in public is as follows. One
brother (A) is blindfolded, while the other (B) goes round among the audience.
I hand to B, for example, a book containing the rules of the Crewe Izaak
Walton Angling Club, whose headquarters are the Albert Hotel, Crewe. A
rapid conversation, something like this, follows :—
“ What am I looking at now ? ”
“ A book.”
“ What colour is it ? ”
“ Blue.”
" What does it relate to ?”
“To a club.”
“ Where does the club meet ? ”
“ At the Albert Hotel.”
And so on, all over the circus with 30 or 40 different articles, coins, watches,
books, hats, sticks, pipes, etc. The answers are occasionally a little vague
but are unfailing in accuracy. You may suspect a verbal code, though you
wonder how a code can give “ book,” “ blue,” “ club,” and “ Albert I-Iotel."
Your suspicions are however soon allayed. B announces that A, while
blindfolded, will write on a blackboard the time by a watch, or the number
of a note or cheque, “ without word or action.” You hand your watch to B,
having taken the precaution to alter it a few hours so as to eliminate guesses
from the experiment. B stands like a statue at one side of the arena, and
watch in hand, gazes with knitted brow at A, who slowly writes the exact
time indicated by the watch (say 3.48) on the blackboard. If you have
suspected a verbal code, here is proof that you are wrong. B stands by you,
10 yards at least from A. and you are quite certain B neither speaks nor
moves. Thus I became a believer.
This was what I saw at the circus. I invited the gentlemen to Dr.
Wilson’s, and there they volunteered and gave the show which I have
described in a previous letter. They did not give the blackboard test.
I was, of course, aware that I had made no test, but I was suﬂiciently
satisﬁed of the genuine value of the phenomena to ask you to make a test or
to be present when I made one. Jones Brothers agreed to a test and led
me to believe they would accept my conditions.
Last evening I made the test at my rooms. There were present with the
circus proprietor, four of my friends (two doctors, a lawyer, and a parson),
and a newspaper reporter (who arrived late) to take shorthand notes.
I>.W?-P’?-P~"?'P°‘
APRIL, 1899.] Cases. 63
I placed A behind a large screen, produced a medal struck to commemorate
the marriage of the Duke of York, gave it to B and suggested that A should
describe it without word from B. To this they both objected. A could best
give his description in answer to questions, they said. I then offered that I
would put to A any question which B would write down, but this was
objected to. B must speak. Here the test was at an end before it was
begun. I decided, however, to let them go on in their own way, and see if
I could learn their methods, which I now suspected were “tricky.”
Their usual performance was then gone through. Articles were given
to B, and A who sat behind the screen described them, in answer to B’s
questions, with his usual accuracy and rapidity.
Then one of my guests suggested that A should give the number of a
cheque without spoken word, as at the circus, and A agreed. During the
conversation A had come from behind the screen, and when I suggested that
he should return there for the purposes of the experiment, he said he would
sooner be blindfolded. I politely pressed my suggestion but he was
obdurate. (Suspicion No. 1). I blindfolded him, but on the pretence that
the handkerchief was not tight enough he took it off and tied it again
himself. (Suspicion No. 2). A and B now sat on chairs about 8ft. apart
and facing each other. My guests stood behind B, and one of them handed
' him a cheque. As no word was to be spoken, I knew that I had only to
prevent communications to the eye, so at this moment I stepped into the
direct line between A and B. The following sketch roughly indicates our
positions, P is myself, R reporter, G guests.
The ﬁrst number of the cheque was given incorrectly. The second
number was given correctly. I turned round (I was facing B) and found A
was leaning his head on his hand at one side of the chair so that he could
(subject to the “blindfo1d”) see past me. I moved into the new line of
sight. Again a number was given incorrectly. Now, as in a tremendous
mental effort, A threw himself on the ﬂoor, his head being actually under the
corner of the table. A number was correctly given. The communication,
judged by the only possible line of sight, was evidently near the ground.
I accordingly cast my eyes down and lo ! the secret was revealed. B was
signalling with his right great toe for all he was worth. It is quite easy.
64 .I0'wr’na,l of Society for Peycluical Research. [APum 1899.
Place the foot ﬁrmly on the ground, and, leaving the ball of the foot
there endeavour to slightly elevate your great toe. The result is a slight
movement of the boot which sharp eyes can detect even at 20 yards. But
you say “A was blindfolded.” So he was from the line of vision of the
spectators, but not from the line of B's foot. The following rough diagram
will show what I mean.
0 ~Eye of guest (standing)
Handkerchief
Q. OEye of A (sitting)
I have since tried and find it quite easy to put a handkerchief round the '
eyes so as to appear blindfolded, but so as to leave a considerable portion of
the ﬂoor visible. To-day I have given on the above lines in conjunction
with my friend Dr. Wilson a “ thought reading séance ” which much
mystiﬁed a limited private audience.
The Jones Brothers’ trick of “ thought-reading without word or action”
was thus easily explained, but you may ask me what about the ﬁrst part of
the programme. My conclusions as to this are : (1) It absolutely depended
for success on the speech of B; (2) Fe questions were very varied both in
words and tone; (3) A code is the only probable explanation, and (4) This
code is remarkably clever and must have taken years of study and practice to
perfect.
As an illustration of how it may be worked I give one example. A legal
document signed by William Perrin was given to B. A question soon
elicited that the Christian name of the signatory was William. “ What is
the other name of the gentleman that this pertains to,” asked B. A second
question which I don’t remember was then asked, and the answer came at
once “Perrin.” Had my shorthand writer arrived earlier I might have
been able to give some more deﬁnite clues. The questions for example,
“ Say can you tell me what country this comes from ? ”
“ What country is the bank in ?”
“ In what country does he live ? ”
may well give by the ﬁrst letter of the ﬁrst word “ Scotland,” " Wales,”
and “ Ir6l&l']d.”—I am very sincerel ‘oUTs
1 3 ,
CHARLEs H. PEDLEY.
No. CLIX.-—VoL IX. MAY, 1899.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RESEARCH.
CoNTENTS. PAGE
An Automatic Message Conveying Information Previously Unknown .. .. .. 65
An AustralianWitch.. .. .. ._ .. .. ._ .. .. .. .. .. ' 69
C'orrespondence :—
Alleged Emanation from Magnets .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 7I
Mr. Podmore and his Critics .. .. _. .. .. .. .. .. .. 72
Cases .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 4. .. .. .. .. .. 73
AN AUTOMATIC MESSAGE CONVEYING INFORMATION
PREVIOUSLY UNKNOVVN.
BY MICHAEL PRmovo SoLovovo.
In the following pages I have endeavoured to present all the
evidence obtainable concerning an instance of an automatic message,
which appears at ﬁrst sight to be due to some other cause than
“ unconscious cerebration.”
The amount of information unknown contained in the following
message is certainly very slight, but still the unexpectedness of the
fact that it was in the sea and not in a river that the soldier was
drowned may be considered entitled to some weight. The most
interesting feature of the case, however, appears to me to have been
the circumstance that the mediums did not see the letters of the
alphabet. This is stated by both of them as well as by the third
person present at the sitting; and if we take into account the fact
that the value of the case in question entirely depends upon the bo/na
ﬁdes of Mme and M\\8 Starck—we surely ought not to be illogical
enough to set aside their testimony on this special feature of the
incident whilst accepting it in toto.
Now, a message obtained under such conditions would involve at
the very least telepathy in a strangely continuous form from M. Starck ;
and makes it increasingly possible that the “veridical” part of the com
munication may have sprung from a supernormal source too; whilst
otherwise we might have put it down with more plausibility either to
unconscious reasoning or to chance coincidence. '
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1899.
Most of the “Skrytnikoﬂ' case” as presented here appeared in No.
48 of the Rebus, (a Russian Spiritistic paper, the editor of which is
well-known to me) in 1898, except what I have marked as “documents
V., VI., and VII.”
In conclusion I must state my opinion that automatic writings of a
“veridical” character are more frequent than is generally supposed. I
have come across some quite lately of which that given below is but an
instance; and I have no reason to think my position from the point of
view of the amount and quality of accessible information on the subject
is more favourable than that of any other person reasonably interested
in psychical matters and possessing a rather wide circle of acquaint
ances. Unfortunately the amount of readiness in the recipients of
such messages to write accounts of what has happened to them—even
at the urgent request of friends—appears to be in inverse proportion to
the supposed frequency in general of the facts themselves. . . . It
is with these preliminary remarks that I now present my modest case.
DoCmvrRNT I.
Ea.-tra,ct from a letter by Lieut.-Col. Stwrck to Baron N. Rcmsch con
Traubenberg; Rebus N0. 48, 1898, p. 417.
On January 22nd, 1898 I made Z-— and J—* sit down at a table.
I wrote down the alphabet, placed upon it a saucer with a pointer and
their hands upon it—and the writing began. Though a ﬁrm believer,
from what I had read, in mediumistic phenomena, I was still amazed.
I bandaged their eyes with the same result; the letters are pointed out
exactly and correctly; the mental contents are present. No trance. All
the writers are in a perfectly normal state. They are keeping their hands
on the saucer with eyes blindfolded; I read and write down. I put down
questions aloud or in writing, and get answers which I do not expect and
the contents of which do not correspond to either Z’s or J’s mental level.
I am looking upon it as a mystiﬁc-ation—by whom, I do not know ;—then
suddenly we get: “I have the honour to present myself, Your High
Nobility,+—Skrytnikoﬂ'.” This appeared so unexpectedly and had such a
meaning that I had to get up from [sheer] emotion and to suspend the
sitting for about ﬁve minutes Skrytnikoff was a soldier who had served in
my regiment here, in Oaucasia, and was drowned in Pzezuappe river in
June or July of last year when I was no more on active service; I had
learnt about this event by accident and had only once spoken about it in the
autumn. We sit down at the saucer again and get : “ I was drowned in the
sea, far away.” I feel perplexed. From what had been communicated to
me at the time of the occurrence I thought he had been drowned in the river.
Then I get: “ Doubovik (the local chief of district, i.e. pristac). Go to him.”
In the morning I go to Doubovik, and without saying what the matter was,
* M. Starck’s daughter and wife. T-A Russian military formula.
MAY, 1899.] An Automatic Message. ' 67
I ask whether he knows anything about Skrytnikoff who was drowned—-and
receive, as I expected, a negative answer, because in such cases inquests, etc.,
are held by the military authorities themselves. During our conversation
in the oﬂice the secretary interferes and says : “ No, I think there is some
thing about Skrytnikoif in the papers." A search is made in the papers and
a procés verbal found by the bailiff or desiatnik of Lazarevskoe village, of no
special importance but in which the sentence occurred: “ The horse swam
out, but he [Skrytnikoff] was carried into the sea.” Now this is very
natural : the river, which is generally shallow, but swift and deep during
high water, must have carried him into the sea.”
DQCUMENT II.
Extract from Lieut-Col. Starck’s letter to M. Aksakoﬁ, dated Sept. 5 [17],
1898. Sotchi [Black Sea. province—Tchewwmorskaya Y0ube'rnia] ; Rebus, No. 48
1898, p. 417.
SIR,—My relative, Baron N. A. Rausch von Traubenberg, has informed
me of your wish to print the contents of my letter to him concerning the
soldier Skrytnikoff who was drowned, and has asked me to send you my
consent. This I do at present with—of course—-my whole signature; and
beg you—should it be of interest—to append to my letter : (1) An attestation
by Doubovik, the then chief of the Sotchi district ; (2) a copy of the procés
cerbal and (3) the original leaf of paper with the notes of the sitting . . .
In the original [account] of the sitting the signature [S’s] is unﬁnished
because I got up from the table in great excitement ; I was struck by the
unexpectedness and the reality of the message, though I had read almost
everything on the subject and felt quite sure of the possibility of such
phenomena. The following words were obtained after I had sat down at
the table again ; my wife and daughter having not left the table at all. I
only told them there was something convincing in the message. Then I was
extremely astonished by the information as to his having been drowned in
the sea, whilst I was quite sure this had occurred in the river, as the only
information I had accidentally had on the subject from a former colleague
of mine was to the effect that Skrytnikoff was drowned in Pzezuappe river,
his chiefs being convinced of it till now. I knew no details whatever about
Skrytnikoff, and only the idea as to his having been drowned in a
river could have originated in my head and among my household—and this
only as a transitory long since forgotton impression ; it was once mentioned
in the autumn, and I am not even quite sure of it.
The procés verbal gave me but little that was new, but the words “ he was
carried away by the water into the sea,” gave my thoughts an impulse [in the
direction] that it had actually been so, i.e., that he was drowned in the sea :
there is not more than half a verst from the spot where the river is crossed
to the sea, it being a mountain stream and in high water. Of course he was
quickly carried into the sea ; his weapon (a sabre, I think) being found cast
ashore on the sea coast, not far from the river. A year before I had been
his chief and am sure he felt kindly towards me as the other soldiers did.
The present message was, I think, obtained at the 3rd séance. The
68 J0'u/rnal of Society for Psych/ical Research. [MAY,1899.
conditions were as follows : the alphabet written, not in order, on a leaf of
paper, and a saucer witha pointer upon it; my wife and daughter, with
eyes blindfolded, kept their hands upon the saucer and I wrote down the
letters.
[M. St-arck fiirtherstates that his daughter is now 16 and in good health.]
[Signed] N. STARCK.
DoCvMssT III., Relms ibid.
[Copy (annexed to M. Starck’s letter) of procés verbal drawn up by
Mouhortoff, a police oﬂicial, which states that in the night of September 7th,
(19) Peter Skrytnikoff, a soldier of the Vardony military post, when crossing
Pzezuappe river, was carried away by the water together with the horse,
which, however, escaped and was taken charge of by soldiers of the
Lazarevskoe post; as for S., “he was carried away by the water into the
!1
sea, and his body never found, though carefully searched for.]
DoCUMENT IV., Rebus ibid.
[A statement by M. Doubovik conﬁrmatory of M. Starck‘s account of his
visit to him the day after the sitting: proces rerbal of Skrytnikoffs death
found, etc.]
DoCUMENT V.
Extract from Baron N. Rxmsch con Traubenberg’s letter to me, dated
December 3/15, 1898, St. Petersburg.
I have been acquainted with M. Starck since 1877. and know him to be
a most truthful, intelligent and serious man; he knows how to observe
nature in general and its manifestations in life in particular. . . . [I
have] no doubt whatever as to the reality of the incident itself.
DoCUMENT VI.
Letter from M. Starck to me [M.P.S.] dated January 12/24, 1899, SotoIii.
Sir,—In compliance with your request as expressed in the letter to my
relative, Baron Traubenberg, I hasten to inform you (1) That my wife and
daughter knew Skrytnikoff, 'l.e., had seen him and knew his name, because
a year before the event [in question] he had called on me several times on
oﬂicial business ; (2) I did not touch the saucer, as with my left hand I was
holding a copybook in which I wrote down the letters, whilst writing with
my right. We were seated at three of the sides of a dining-table to which
had been fastened a leaf of paper with the alphabet, [thus] leaving room for
the copybook.—I am, etc., [Signed] N_ STARCK_
DoCUMENT VII.
State-me'n.t by Jl""¢ and Mlle Starch [combined by me].
We ﬁnd M. Starck’s* account concerning a communication from the
soldier Skrytnikoff who was drowned, printed in Relms N. 48, 1898, to
be correct. During the incident described our eyes were bandaged and
we positively could not see the alphabet.
JEANNETTE STARCK.
Janaary,12/29, 1899. Sotchi. [Signed] {ZsuAins SmRcK.
* “ Father ” and “husband ” in the otiginal.
MAY,1S99.] An Aast'ral@'a-n. Witch. ' 69
AN AUSTRALIAN VVITCH.
Mr. Andrew Lang allows us to print the following curious narrative
received from a correspondent in whom he places conﬁdence.—ED.
A girl who was staying with me was taken suddenly, and, to us,
unaccountably ill. She was not conﬁned to her bed, being able to drag herself
wearily into my sitting-room where she would lie back in a long chair,
looking as limp as a piece of washed out unbleached calico.
The oldest native woman in the Varran, hearing of my friend’s illness,
came up to see me about it. She was in the habit of coming up should anyone
be ill, and wrapping her string charms round their wrists and droning
incantations over them. She asked me what was the matter, and what had
made the Bullah Meai (white girl) sick.
When I told her that I did not know, she said she would ask some of the
spirits, with whom she was in communion, what was the matter and what we
had better do. Thinking it might rouse my patient-—-who, being a town girl,
found the natives a novelty, —I asked her to come in.
The old woman on entering went up to the patient, expressed sympathy
and said she would talk with the spirits. To that end she squatted down in
the middle of the room and began muttering in a foreign dialect. Presently
her voice ceased and we both heard a most peculiar whistling sort of voice
utter some words, to which the old woman responded. She was answered by
the same whistling voice. Then two or three times she evidently asked the
same thing, but received no reply.
After waiting a few moments she turned to me and told me that she had
been asking Big Joe—a black fellow who had died some years before—to
tell her what she wanted to know, but he would not ; so now she was going
to ask the spirit of a long dead grand-daughter of hers. Again she mumbled
a so1t of incantation and again after a while came a whistling voice, not
quite such a loud one as the ﬁrst. The same sort of thing was gone through,
with the same result. Then the old woman told me she was going to ask the
spirit of Guadgee—a girl who had been one of my ﬁrst favourites in the
camp, a little ebony black curly-headed baby when I came here, and who
had died comparatively recently—to help her. This effort was successful.
Gaudgee answered at once.
In reply as to cause of illness she said my friend had offended the spirits
by bathing under the shade of a Uniggah—that is a tree taboo to all but its
wirreerum, or wizard, whom it serves as a rallying place for his spirit friends—
or where he conﬁnes captured dream spirits, or secretes at times with perfect
safety some of his magical properties, such as sacred crystals, gowceras
poison, sticks, or bones, as anything is safe in a Uniggah because in them
are—invisible to all but wizards’ eyes—swarms of spirit bees which violently
attach any such violater.
My friend had insulted the spirits by plunging into the shadow of this
Uniggah, for all shadows are spirits of what throws them, which any injury
to the shadow likewise affects. The spirit bees had bitten my friend, said
Guadgee, on the back and secreted on her liver some wax. This was the
70 Jowwrral of Society for Psychical Research. [Mxr, 1899.
cause of her illness, and she said that if we looked at my friend’s back the
bee bites would be seen.
There were certainly some irritable inﬂamed spots where indicated.
When the old woman told me all Guadgee’s spirit had said, I, knowing where
the Uniggah was, and knowing where the invalid bathed with my coloured
house girls, said Guadgee was wrong for I knew the girls would be much too
frightened to bathe in the shade of the Uniggah.
But the old woman stuck to her story and said Guadgee would not lie.
“Is the Uniggah a big coolabah between the bend and the garden?”
asked my friend.”
“ Yes. ”
“ Well, then, I did bathe there the last time I went down. I was up too
late to go with the girls, so slipped away alone, and as the sun was hot I went
round the bend into the shade of the big tree, where I had a lovely swim."
The source of the illness settled to the old woman’s satisfaction, she next
interrogated the friendly spirit as to a cure.
Guadgee’s power—spirit—whistled its reply.
The patient was to drink nothing hot or heating, but as much cold water
as she liked, before she went to bed; she was to take a long drink, after
which she would sleep. During her sleep Guadgee would come and remove
the wax from her liver through which operation she would sleep soundly
aIId in the morning awaken refreshed and almost well. The old woman was
to say a charm over her before she went.
This she did, rubbing her round the wrist while she did so. Then she
went off saying she was taking the spirits away inside her, but Guadgee’s
would return during the night, before going back to the Uniggah in her
noorumbah, or hereditary hunting ground, where the wirreerums had
placed it. That night my friend slept soundly, awoke almost to her usual
health in the morning, with the washed out, yellow look gone.
The old woman sometimes made the spirit voice come through her own
lips, sometimes from her wrist, sometimes from her shoulder, on two
occasions ﬁrst from one end of the room and then from the other.
She is said to have within her many magic crystals. Should she lose these
her power would go. One of her daughters had a like power of invoking
'spirit aid—but she took to the white mau’s grog and the spirits all left
her. She shows you the marks they make during exit from her back.
Any of these wirreerums, witches or wizards can produce these crystals
in quantities apparently from inside themselves. My brother once let an
old wizard suck his wrist, thinking he could detect where he had secreted the
crystals he appeared to be sucking from my brother, but the old fellow was
much to smart. The old fellow’s mouth was empty when he applied his lips
to my brother’s arm, but in a very short time he began spitting out pebbles
purporting to be drawn from my brother.
The old spiritualist woman, whenever my husband is away and she thinks
I am unprotected, marches up to the house with a smoking bunch of Butda
twigs, and crooning to herself she walks all round. The smoke is to keep
the spirits away.
1~IA\', 1899.] Correspondence. 71
Lately she came to tell me she was going away for some time to see some
old friends on the Barwon, and as there would be no one to protect me
should I be alone while she was away, she was going to erect two painted
sticks in my garden, one to keep all spirits of the dead away, the other
to keep the spirits that come out from the sunset. She would also put two
huge painted logs, which had in them the spirits of alligators, up near my
garden tank, that these alligators might see my tank was not empty even
while she, our rain maker, was away.
The painted sticks and logs are now in my garden, and we are waiting
the result of old Bargie’s magic, for my tank is getting low.
We all tried to make the whistling voice of the spirits, but with no success ;
evidently you require to be initiated, or shall we say a ventriloquist '!
K. LmoToN PARKER.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions ea.-pressed by Correspondenta]
ALLEGED EMANATIoNs nzoM MAGNETs.
2,043, Walnut Street, Philadelphia, April 5th, 1899.
F. W. H. MYERs, EsQ.,—MY DEAR Sm,—Mr. 0. Murray has requested
me to give you an outline of experiments witnessed by me in Paris, during
which luminous rays or radiations emanating from magnets were supposed
to have been seen by subjects in the secondary state.
The ﬁrst experiment took place at the Charité Hospital of Paris, during
a clinic conducted by Dr. Luys. The two subjects, a male and a female,
went through what might be called the same performance; clutching
excitedly at blue elﬁuences emanating from the North pole of the magnet
(a straight bar), and ﬂeeing or turning away from red eﬂluences of the
South pole. This experiment was not, in my opinion, of much value.
Dr. Luys had given us, in audible voice, a clear idea of what the subjects
would see, thus introducing two elements of error :—1st. Trickery on the
part of the subjects. 2nd. Suggestion. The woman, at least, was subse
quently ascertained to be unreliable.
The second experiment was conducted at the Hotel Continental, of
Paris, by the late Mr. Ernest Hart, of London. A wooden “magnet ”
having been provided, the subject, a woman, when placed in the secondary
state, saw no radiaitons. When, however, an induction coil was placed
before her, she saw them when the current was closed, and did not see them
when it was broken. She did not, however, correctly differentiate the poles
through the colour of the efﬂuences. The excitement witnessed in the other
two subjects was totally absent. The room was so small that the least
motion could be discerned, and the bichromatc cell of which I had charge
did not work quite smoothly. Suggestion might also have inﬂuenced the
results here. While Dr. Luys was anxious to have the subjects see
radiations Mr. Hart was anxious that his subject should not see them.
72 Journal of Society for Psy/chical Reserwch. [MAY, 1599.
Both observers were, therefore, under mental stress, and their experiments
were unreliable in proportion.
From the experience thus gained, it seems to me that the question can
only be determined by experiments conducted through passive observers.
By these I mean persons informed only of the technique to be followed.
The subjects knowing nothing of what is expected of them, being placed
in the secondary state by a person equally in the dark, the passive technician
should then note what the subjects see when magnets, artiﬁcial and genuine,
are placed before them.—Yours faithfully,
CHAs. E. DE M. SmoUs.
MR. PoDMoRE AND ms CRnnes.
The following letter is from Mrs. C. F. Barker, an Associate of the
American Branch :—
Lest Mr. Podmore and his critics should drop their discussion before
they have made things entirely clear to the average Journal reader, will you
allow a voice from the back seat to call for “more 2 more ! ” ?
I am sure that I represent many of Mr. Podmore’s readers and sincere
admirers when I say that some .of us who were puzzled over the attitude
taken in Studies in Psychical Research do not, even yet, quite understand
his position.
The manner in which he dismisses “The Wesley Case ” is a fair illustra
tion of our diiﬁculty. He says (Journal, Vol. IX., p. 45) :—“After the
perusal of these extracts, Miss Hetty’s inexplicable reticence seems more
than ever to be deplored. And in view of this reticence, and of Miss
Hetty’s singular habit of trembling in a sound sleep when loud noises were
going on all around her, and of the notable predilection shown by the
Poltergeists for her person, it hardly seems worth while to enquire whether
the noises which perplexed the Wesley family did indeed proceed from a
supernormal source.”
Does Mr. Podmore intend to convey the impression that Miss Hetty was
the “naughty little girl” of this story, and that she was carrying out a
system of common trickery for the entertainment of her family? If so, the
reason why Mr. Podmore “ cannot ﬁnd evidence” is made plain, and there
is nothing more to be said.
- If, on the other hand, he suspects that Miss Hetty may have (consciously
or unconsciously) used, or transmitted, that “ power of projection” by
which one mind is able to reach and control other minds, why hesitate to
say so '3
It is true that there is enough in sight to make a thoughtful man pause
and “ gather in his breath ”—as Tesla in his laboratory is said to do some
times—realizing that he is upon the verge of something terriﬁc, but he must
not pause too long, lest the forces should scatter and much of the preliminary
toil and sacriﬁce be lost.
Asm L. BARKER
(Mrs. C. F. Barker), Associate A.B.
Chicago, March 25th, 1899.
MAY, 1899.] Cases. 73
CASES.
[The case which follows is the personal experience of a valued
correspondent, who prefers on this occasion to remain anonymous on
account of the nature of the business transaction described.
P. 261. A CAsE oF PRECoGNITIoN.
In the spring of 1895 I returned to the town of ——- with health much
improved, and, feeling that I ought to be doing something, began to look
about for a business opening. My training had been such that I was not
particularly ﬁtted for anything of the kind, but “fools rush in where angels
fear to tread” and the hotel business offering an opportunity that seemed
promising I leased the hotel in March near the end of a short “ season.”
I did well while it lasted, but soon the business did not pay expenses, and I
began to realise thatI had made a mistake. My former rather autocratic
calling was not calculated to make of me a bowing and smiling boniface, so,
altogether, before the opening of another season I had made up my mind to
get out of the business as soon as I could—and realising that at the beginning
of the tourist season was the best time to do so, early in November of the
same year I called upon Mr. L., president of the board of directors con
trolling the property (which was owned by a stock company) and stated my
determination to quit, and asked to be informed just what terms the board
would offer to a new tenant should I be able to procure one for the hotel.
Mr. L., who was a personal friend, said he was very sorry to have to
inform me that the owners of the building had decided not to lease the
property again as a hotel. Upon the expiration of my lease, or sooner if I
gave it up, they would divide the building into three separate parts, by
partition walls and additional stairways, elevators, etc. ; that they hoped
then to be able to sell the property ; in fact they already had a prospective
purchaser for one of the parts ; that the board had already approved
the architects’ plans for doing the work, etc.
Upon receiving this information I was much disappointed, for in order
to obtain a lease in the ﬁrst instance, I had been obliged to buy the
furniture, and unless I could dispose of it to a successor, it would be almost
a total loss. I saw the other members of the board, and was told the same
thing, only one of the board of six members—Colonel H.»-being in favour
of continuing it as a hotel. The certainty of this loss staring in the face and
my increasing ill health operated to greatly depress me. I had already
asked several of my acquaintances in the business. Mr. A. C. B. of a leading
hostelry in a near by city among them, to send anyone they might see
looking for a hotel to me.
On or about the ﬁrst of December following, a Mr. M., “ Sunday editor”
of a leading paper in the city, came to me to engage certain accommodations
for two ladies. I replied that that was my business, and I thought I could
entertain any friends of his. He said he was not sure that I would care to
have these people in my house, as one of them was a professional “ spirit
74 Jo'u/rnal of Society for Psychical Research. [MA\', 1899.
medium.” He could vouch for her respectability, and stated that as she
never travelled alone she was always accompanied by her mother or sister.
He said that he considered her quite wonderful as a “medium," and as her
business manager he had conceived the notion of making a tour of the towns
in that part of the State, remaining as long as it was proﬁtable in each town.
That this was her ﬁrst tour, &c., &c.
They came and remained several weeks. In my capacity of landlord I,
of course, saw more or less of them, and as it was our ﬁrst contact with
“modern spiritualism,” observed them and their callers with considerable
curiosity.
Both my wife and myself were pronounced agnostics in matters relating
to a future state of existence, and were not without some little prejudice
against spiritualism, although generally very liberal and tolerant of the
beliefs of others.
Many well-known and, as I remarked to my wife, “ otherwise sensible
people” visited her, and twice a week she held “ public circles,” attended
by from ten to twenty-ﬁve people. The medium was a reﬁned-looking girl
about eighteen, but not otherwise remarkable, and had very little education
or culture except that derived from her contact with people. She invited
my wife and myself to attend her circles at any time, and one evening after
the invitation had been repeated, we went out of curiosity. There were
some ﬁfteen people besides ourselves. The medium became supposedly en
tranced. In a voice totally unlike her ordinary tone, she greeted her
audience with a few words of welcome, and commencing with the person on
her right, she devoted a few moments to each, delicately phrasing her
message so that little clue was given to the others of the matters alluded to.
In the cases of one or two, of whose affairs I happened to know somewhat,
I was struck with the aptness of her control’s remarks.
Coming at length to me, among other things she said I was “greatly
worried over the outcome of a certain business venture, but that worry was
wholly ‘ unnecessary,’ as she (the ‘ Control ’) could ‘ see that it was coming
out all right.’ ” She went on to say that, “ about the middle of the
January moon of the New Year,” a “ dark, foreign woman,” who “spoke
with a foreign accent,” and had “ black eyes and black hair,” worn
pompadour (pushing the medium’s back in that style), “ high cheek-bones,”
would be introduced to me by a “chief” (gentleman), a friend wearing a
“light-coloured overcoat.” That this woman was coming, or had recently
come, “from a large city in the East.” That she would buy my interest,
and the papers would all be executed, and the transfer would be made “on
the ﬁrst day of the February moon ” following. She stated, however, that I
would not get any money then, but I would later, after much delay. That
it was best for me to accept her offer, that my condition of health demanded
a change. She said that the woman would make a success of the business.
Other private matters were unmistakably alluded to, matters unknown to
any but ourselves.
Coming to my wife in her turn the “ Control,” among other things
cautioned her that she was on the verge of a serious illness caused by
Mn. 1899-] Cases. 75
inﬂamed condition of her kidneys—an allusion that annoyed my wife at the
time—but she said “ M—-” (the “ Control’s ” name) “ cannot see that
it is to have a fatal termination ” with a curious rising inﬂection on the last
word—how well we remembered it later !
On December 20th my wife, who was learning to ride a bicycle, was thrown
by her machine getting away from her going down hill, and fell, striking
the sharp edge of a square telephone pole across her right side and back.
On the 23rd she was taken with acute nephritis, undoubtedly caused by the
blow, and for two weeks her life hung in the balance, but it was not until
after she became convalescent that either of us remembered the " Control’s ”
prediction.
One day, about the middle of January, 1896, a friend, Major A. H. N.
in the city, a real estate agent, came to me and said he had brought a woman
to look at the hotel, Mr. A. C. B., before referred to, having told her
that I wished to dispose of my lease. I now distinctly remember that the
Major wore a “light-coloured overcoat,” although, when I wrote the ﬁrst
draft of this case, I had forgotten it until my friend J. M. S. called my
attention to it by saying that my wife in relating it to her in May, 1896, had
mentioned the fact that Major N. did wear a “ light-coloured overcoat.”
I began to feel decidedly queer as the Major went on, but I told him
frankly that it was no use to consider the matter, and explained why. He
requested, however, that I go into the parlour and see her anyhow. I went
in, and he introduced me to an apparently well-educated German lady,
fiilﬁlliiig in every respect the description given in the circle a month before.
She told me that she had just come from Philadelphia, and had just bought
a fruit farm through the Major, but that she did not intend to live upon it,
and not wishing to be idle, and understanding the hotel business thoroughly
—-her late husband having kept a leading hotel in Leipsic, Germany, and
she had run it after his death—she was looking for some such hotel as this.
I answered her as I had the Major. She remarked that people some
times changed their minds, and that now she was there she would look at
the house if I would kindly show it to her, which I did. She was pleased
with it, and asked me to see the owners and see if they would make an
appointment, and listen to a proposition she would make. She left her ad
dress, and they went back to the City.
The next day I saw Col. H., and through his efforts the board met,
talked the matter over again, made an appointment to listen to the woman’s
proposition ; she was notiﬁed, she came and made it, and after much dis
cussion and delay her proposition was accepted, the necessary legal papers
were executed, and the actual transfer was made “ on the ﬁrst day of the
February moon,” exactly as predicted.
Neither did I get any cash. I took notes, which at the timeI considered
well secured ; but if I ever get the money it will be stranger than the fore
going, for she made an utter failure of the business, and gave it up a year
later.
Here is a series of predictions fulﬁlled, almost to the letter, only one
having failed absolutely to come to pass.
76 J0'u/renal of Society for Puyciiicai lies-earch. [Mmr,1899.
In them, from the nature of the case, it seems impossible that the events
predicted could have been guessed or known normally beforehand, or
inferred with a complete knowledge of all the circumstances.
Subsequent experience with this same “psychic” has shown me that such
successes, though sometimes they have been equalled, are very rare with her.
Is there any scientiﬁc theory covering such a faculty of precognition P
The explanation given by this “intelligence” calling itself “M,” and
claiming to be a spirit many thousand years “ dead,” is that “' coming events
cast their shadows before,” and that the mistakes that so often occur do so
through the spirits’ inability to read the shadows correctly. The “ shadows.”
it is explained, are signs and symbols “ shown them,” and which they
endeavour to translate. (Signed) C_
Mai'ch 19th, 1899.
G. 261. A FAMILY GHosT.
The following experience was communicated by Lady Bedingﬁeld.
Her account is supplemented by the report of a conversation in
which further details were obtained.
During one of the visits which my husband, Sir Henry Bedingﬁeld, and I
paid to Costessey Park near Norwich, as the guests of the late Lord Staﬂbrd*
and his wife, I had a very singular experience.
On my arrival Lady Stafford came up to my room and had a talk with me.
In the course of conversation she mentioned that there would be no mass on
the morrow owing to the absence of their priest, which would be prolonged for
several days. I expressed some regret at missing the chance of making his
acquaintance, as I had heard a good deal about him from a friend of mine,
which had made me very anxious to meet him.
A large house party assembled at dinner, and afterwards adjourned to
the principal drawing-room. Glancing upwards towards a table about which
several persons were grouped, I was extremely surprised to see, standing
with his back to me, a grey-haired priest, dressed in the foreign fashion,
with a soutune, and a sash round his waist. He stood between Lord Stafford
and Sir Robert Gerard and held up to the lamp what looked like a parch
ment MS. After what my hostess had said before dinner I could not
account for the presence of this ecclesiastic, and I waited for a pause in her
conversation with her guests to call her attention to him. This opportunity
did not occur for fully a qiiarter of an hour during the whole of which time
I had the priest and his MS. in view, although I never saw his face. The
servants coming in with trays of tea and coffee caused a slight commotion,
and when they had left I was about to inquire of my hostess what she had
meant by informing me that there was no priest in the house, and asking her
who the one present might be, when I perceived that he was no longer in the
room. I assumed that he had slipped out unobserved by me when the
servants left the apartment.
On our withdrawing for the night I asked my husband who the foreign
priest was who had stood at the drawing-room table for so long. At ﬁrst he
* Henry Valentine, 6th baron.
MAY, 1899.] Cases. 77
pooh-poohcd the whole thing, but ﬁnally he informed me that, though he
had seen nothing himself, Costessey Park was undoubtedly said to be
haunted by a priest. Now I am absolutely certain that this was the ﬁrst time
1 had ever heard of this ghost at Costessey Park.
(Signed) A. L. BEDINGFIELD.
I perfectly recollect my wife telling me this story that evening exactly as
she describes it here, and i am conﬁdent, from her remarks when I informed
her that that was the family ghost at Costessey, that she had never heard of
it before.
I also advised her not to mention the matter—which will explain why she
did not, before leaving Costessey, enquire of Lord Stafford or Sir R. Gerard
who was the priest with whom they had been conversing.
(Signed) HENRY BEDINGFIELD.
Through an interview with Lady Bedingﬁeld the following further
particulars were obtained:—
Q. “ Was it during Lady B.’s ﬁrst visit to Costessey Park that she had
this hallucination 'l” A. “ No. Not by any means the ﬁrst visit.”
Q. “ ‘Dressed in the foreign fashion.’ Was there any likelihood that
the regular priest of Costessey Park might have been dressed in the foreign
fashion ? ” A. “ No. He would certainly have been dressed in the
‘ English fashion.’ ”
Q. “Why didn’t Lady B. during the quarter of an hour that the priest
was visible to her make any attempt to see his face by walking round to his
end of the room, especially as she was surprised by his being present, and
had been desirous of making his acquaintance ?”
A. “ Don’t quite know. Room was very large. Also the priest was
facing the wall with his back to the rest of the company, and being also in
the corner, it would have been somewhat difﬁcult to get a view of his face.”
Q. “ Can it have been a real priest ?”
A. “Enquired of ‘everyone,’ and enquiries made through Lady B.’s
maid, and through other servants, but no priest heard of in village or else
where.”
Q. “Can it have been a fortuitous arrangement of curtains, or furniture?"
A. “There were no curtains in the part of the room where the priest
stood.”
Q. “ Did the priest look quite human and natural?”
A. “ In every respect. Nothing unusual about his appearance.”
Q. “ Has Lady B. had any other similar experience ?” A. “ No.”
Q. “Date of experience?” A. “ About 1876.”
Additional information elicited in course of conversation :—
Lady B. did speak to Lady Stafford at the time in the drawing-room, but
Lady Stafford merely made some such remark as “ Oh ! is there ? I haven’t
seen one,” and the subject dropped—interruption by servants, and so on.
Lady Staﬁbrd was very nervous and swore to leave Costessey Park the same
day and never return if she ever saw a ghost there. She never saw one. Lady
B. paid several more visits to Costessey, but has seen no more ghosts.
78 Journal of Society for Psji/chicat Research. [MAY, 1899.
The priest had grey hair. Lady B. very positive that she had never heard of
Costessey being haunted by a priest, though she knew it had the reputation
of being haunted. Lady Stafford’s nervousness the reason why Lady B. did
not make more enquiries—being strongly advised by Sir H. Bedingﬁeld not
to mention the subject further. Lady B. struck me as a fairly good witness,
and her husband as a very good one. J‘ G. SMITH.
M. Cl. 97. A CAsE oF CRYsTAL-VIsIoN.
Miss Angus writes (January 4th, 1898) :
I had another successful scry on Tuesday evening, 21st December, 1897,
when Mr. Mac asked me to look in the ball. He had never seen
crystal gazing, so I told him to ﬁx his mind on some scene, which I would
endeavour to describe. Almost at once I saw a large room with a polished
ﬂoor reﬂected, the lights being very bright and all round ; but the room was
empty, which I thought very uninteresting ! Mr. Mac—— said how strange
that was, as he had not, so far, been able to ﬁx his mind on any particular
face in the ballroom. However, he asked me to look again, and this time I
saw a smaller room, very comfortably furnished, and at a small table under
a bright light with a glass globe (no shade on the globe) sat a young girl, in
a high-necked white blouse, apparently writing or reading. I could not see
her face distinctly, but she was pale, with her hair drawn softly off her
forehead (no fringe), and seemed to have rather small features.
Mr. Mac said my description quite tallied with the lady he was
thinking of, a Miss , whom he had met for the ﬁrst time at a ball a few
nights before, but he had meant me to see her dressed as he met her in the
ballroom.
We consulted our watches, and found that it was between 10.15 and
10.30 when we were scrying, and Mr. Mac said he would try to ﬁnd out
what Miss was doing at that hour. Fortunately I had not long to
wait for his report, as he met her the next evening. and told her of my
experiment. She was very much interested, I believe, and said it was all
quite true ! She had been wearing a white blouse, and, as far as she
remembers, she was still reading at 10.30 under a bright incandescent
light, with a glass globe on it.
Mr. Mac writes (December 30th, 1897) :—
I was at Miss Angus’s house on Tuesday, December 21st, 1897. Miss
Angus said that if I thought of somebody she would look in her crystal ball
and ﬁnd out the personal appearance of the person of whom I was thinking,
and what he or she was doing at that moment (10.25 p.m.). She told me to
think of the surroundings and the place in which I had last seen the person
of whom I was thinking. I thought of somebody that she did not know—
Miss , whom I had met at a dance on December 20th. I thought of the
ballroom where I had been introduced to her, but at ﬁrst I could not centre
my mind on her face. Then Miss A. said that she saw a big room with a
polished ﬂoor, and which was brilliantly lit up, but that at present she
could not make out any people there. Then I succeeded in ﬁxing my mind
MAY, 1899.] Cases. 7 9
on Miss ’s face, when Miss A. said that she saw a girl with fair wavy
hair either writing a letter or reading, but probably the former, under a
lamp with a glass globe, and that she had a high-necked white blouse on.
All this took about ﬁve minutes. '
I saw Miss again at a dance on December 22nd—the next night. I
told her what had happened, and she said that, as far as she remembered,
at 10.25 the night before she had been either writing a letter or reading, but
probably writing, under an incandescent gas-light with a glass globe, and
that she had been wearing a high-necked white blouse.
I had only known Miss Angus for a very short time, so she did not know
what friends I had in ——-. I do not think that Miss Angus knows
Miss There were three other people in the room all the time, one of
whom was playing the piano. This is exactly what happened, as far as I
can remember.
P. 262. A PREsRNTnuRNT FULFILLED.
The Hon. Mrs. Leir-Carleton, Greywell Hill, Winchﬁeld, writes as
follows :—
Mrs. Hoptroﬁ" (resident in this village and mother of my maid, Tilley
Hoptroﬂ) underwent an operation on August 20th [I898], in the Victoria
Hospital, Bournemouth. Her daughter remained with her until August
23rd, when she was progressing satisfactorily, and insisted upon the girl
returning to “keep house for the boys,” her brothers. On August 26th,
about 9 a.m., I was sitting at my dressing-table, trying to brush my hair,
in despite of hindrance from a pet cat (that would play with my sleeve-ruﬂies,
and was getting scolded, yet encouraged), when I suddenly became aware of
this assertion: “Mrs. Hoptroff will pass, to-day.” There was no sound,
but I felt as clearly impressed with those ﬁve words as if they had been
uttered close to me. I may remark that “pass” is not an expression I
should be likely to use, but this is the second time it has been used to
impress me. I sprang to my feet and stared around. My gaze lit upon the
writing-table, and (recollecting a similar experience that I had unluckily
supposed illusory and neglected to note) I at once scribbled the above
sentence, dated, and shut it away. Then I admitted two old servants,
(Mrs. Tilley and Mrs. Bolton), and as they entered I asked, “ What news
of Mrs. Hoptroff?” The answer was, “Oh, much better! The sickness
has left her, and the doctor ordered ﬁsh for her dinner.” I said, “ Well
. . I must say I did not expect such good news. Somehow I have had
a_ feeling she might die after all, and perhaps to-day.” I did not mention
what had made me think this, because their information made me distrust
mine, which indeed soon ceased to occupy my thoughts.
That night, at dinner, shortly after 8 o’clock, there was brought to me a
telegram, that Tilley Hoptroﬂ had just received from Bournemouth,
announcingr “ a change for the worse.” I directed my son where to ﬁnd my
memorandum, which he brought, and everyone present read it.
On Sunday, August 28th, we learnt that Mrs. H. died on the evening
of the 26th.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Reseawch. [MAY, 1899.
Mrs. Leir-Carleton’s account is conﬁrmed by the signed statements
(hearing date Aug. 28th, 1898) of her son, Mr. Dudley Carleton, who
went to fetch the paper inscribed, “Mrs. Hoptroif will pass to-day,
Friday, August 26th, 1898,” and of several of the guests present at
dinner on the evening in question. Further conﬁrmation is afforded
by the testimony of the servants, in whose presence Mrs. Carleton had
hinted at her misgivings on the morning of the 26th :—
When I came into Mrs. Carleton’s room on Friday, August 26th, she
asked me if there was any news of Mrs. Hoptroff. I answered, “much
better, the sickness has stopped, and she was to have ﬁsh for her dinner.”
Mrs. Carleton looked very serious, and said that she did not expect good
news, and said, “ somehow I have had a feeling that she may die, to-day.’
Mrs. Bolton was also present and will sign her name below mine. This is
written down by Lucy Day (housemaid), to whom Mrs. Bolton repeated
Mrs. Carleton’s remark a few minutes later, after Mrs. Carleton had gone
downstairs to breakfast. ELIsABETH TILLEY_
EMILY BomoN.
LUCY DAY.
P. 263. A CAsE oF “SRConn SIGHT.”
We are indebted to Lord Bnte for the following narrative of second
sight, communicated by Sister Illtyd of the Boys’ Home, at Treforest,
Pontypridd. Sister Illtyd heard of it from Sister Catherine, but not till
after the child’s death. Sister Catherine’s own narrative is as follows :—
On Sunday the 14th August, 1898, when I was taking the boys for a walk to
the Rocking Stone, old Mrs. Thomas (who lives in one of Dr. Price’s cottages
on the road to the common), came out to speak to me and asked if one of
the Home children had died that week. I said “ No,” and asked why she
wanted to know. She said, “ Because I saw a child’s funeral going down the
hill from the Home, but not the way you go down with the children, but to
the left, and I thought it must be one of the Home children because of the
boys who were carrying the coﬂin and walking. I thought at ﬁrst it was a
school.” I enquired if any of the neighbours in Tower Road just below the
Home had lost a child. None of them had, nor had any child’s funeral passed
that week, but on the Wednesday of the following week, a little girl of three
belonging to one of the neighbours in Tower Road was accidentally drowned.
The child’s mother came up to ask Sister Illtyd if our boys could carry the
little one to the grave, as, on account of the strike, and nobody having any
tidy clothes, she could not get anyone else. Sister Illtyd agreed to let the
boys go though it is against our rule for them to attend any funerals
except our own, and the procession went down the hill to the left just as
Mrs. Thomas had seen a fortnight before. Mrs. Thomas’s house overlooks
this side of the valley and is nearly on a line with the Home.
I did not tell Sister Illtyd what Mrs. Thomas had seen till after she had
given permission for the boys to carry this child to the grave.
Pontypridd, February, 1899.
No. 0LX.—VoL. IX. ' JUNE, 1s99.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RESEARCH.
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 81
Meeting of the Council . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
General Meeting ._. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 83
A Contribution to the History of the Divining Rod .. .. .. .. .. .. 83
Cases .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 87
“Sounds from the Unknown” .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 89
Correspondence :—
On Poltergeists.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 91
0nDreams ofFlying.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 95
On Dr. Morton Prince's “Case of Triple Personality .. .. .. .. .. 96
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Jlembers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
BAUDAINs, M1ss M. G., Parade House, Jersey.
CAMPBELL, LIEUT. N. D. H., 7th Dragoon Guards, Colchester.
CARMIGHAEL, REv. CANoN, D.D., LL.D., Ranelagh, Dublin.
CLosE, MIss ETTA, Lamperri, Dursley, Gloucestershire.
Ffrench, Mrs. Sophy A., Golovino, Kanadeista, Syzran-Viazma
Railway, Govt. of Simbirsk, Russia.
HUNTmeFoRn, MIss, North End House. Winchester.
INGRAM, HoN. MRs. MEYNELL, Temple Newsam, Leeds.
Lambert, Edward W. , F.R.G.S., 13, Great James-st., London,\V.C.
RAE, RoDERIC H., 103, Sotheby-road, Highbur-y»park, N.
RUDoLPHI, EDUARD, 20, Zabalcansky Prospect, St. Petersburg, Russia.
WHITE, M1ss E. HILDA, 170, Queen’s-gate, London, SW.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ADAMs, GEoRGE S., MeD., Insane_I-Iospital, Westboro, Mass.
ALBREE, RALPH, 187, VVestern-avenue, Allegheny, Pa.
BICKFoRD, R. G., Newport News, Va.
BRIGGs, MRs. N. R., Bismarck, N. Dakota.
82 Jou/r'mtl of Society for Psychical Research. [JuNE,189!L
BRUsH, W. FRANKLIN, 16, E. 37th-street, New York, N.Y.
CoLEMAN, GEo. E., Santa Barbara, California.
CoNKLIN, Roland R., 524, Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y.
FoRwoon, PEPLoE, c/o California Fig Syrup 0o., 398, Church-street,
San Francisco, Cal.
HoWARD, REv. A. B., Jackson, Miss.
HUNTER, MRs. M. L., Lewisburg, Penna.
JEsCHKE, HARRY, Hackensack, N.J.
JEssoP, DR. HA1xroN I., 1,829, Arch-street, Phila., Pa.
Loughnane, John, 78, Duane-street, New York, N.Y.
PERRY, GEoRGE S., Binghampton, N.Y.
RoGERs, DR. OsCAR H., 346, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
TETzEL, MRs. F. G., c/o New Yor/c Jiusical Courier, Milwaukee, Wis.
THoMPsoN, E. H., 10, Winthrop-street, Watertown, N.Y.
VAN BAUN, DR. WM. W., 1402, Spruce-street, Phila., Pa.
WARREN, LYMAN OTIs, Rockland-street, Brighton, Mass.
WILCoX, MRs. H. H., Box 626, Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council was held on April 28th at the West
minster Town_Hall. The President occupied the chair. There were
also present, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. St. George Lane Fox Pitt,
Professor H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr. J. G. Smith, and
Dr. A. Wallace.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Mr. Montague Crackanthorpe, QQC., was co-opted as a Member of
the Council for the current year.
Two new Members and nine new Associates were elected. The
election of one new Member and nineteen new Associates of the
American Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given
above.
Some presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donors.
A letter was read from Mr. Chester A. Snow, of Washington,
D.C., U.S.A., in which he expresses his “appreciation of the excellent
work done by the Society,” and, in addition to his current subscription,
forwards a draft for $50 as a contribution to the work of the Society,
to be used as may be thought best. A minute was adopted thanking
Mr. Snow for his kind donation, which it was agreed should be
devoted to purposes of research.
JUNE, 1899.] Cont’)-'ib'ut2'0n to Histoo--y of Dioioziwg Rod. 83
' Other matters of business having been disposed of, the next
meeting of the Council was ﬁxed for June 23rd, at 4.30 p.m., to be
held at the Rooms of the Society, 19, Buckingham Street, W.C.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 99th General Meeting of the Society was held in the Council
Chamber at the Westminster Town Hall, at 4 p.m., on Friday, April
28th, the President in the chair.
Some portions of “A Further Paper on Coincidences,” by Miss
ALICE JoHNsoN, were read by Mr. F. VV. H. MYERs. The whole of
Miss Johnson’s article on this subject will appear in Proceedings, Part
XXXV.—now nearly ready for publication.
A paper by DR. MoRToN PRINCE, of New York, entitled: “A
Case of Triple Personality and Crystal Vision,” was also read by
Mr. Myers. This paper has now been published in Brain under the
title: “An Experimental Study of Visions,” and it is proposed to
gim some account of it, with extracts, in the next Part of the
Proceedings.
A CONTRIBUTION TO THE HISTORY OF THE
DIVINING ROD.
BY PRoFsssoR DR. D’OUTREPoNT oF WURzBURG.
From Nasse’s Zeitschmift far Psychische Aertze.—First Quarterly Part
for 1821.
Translated and abridged by EDWARD T. BENNETT.
It is, I believe, of greater service to science when clearly attested facts,
which are still considered doubtful by some, are simply publicly recorded,
than when explanations are added. The endeavour to explain everything is
a hindrance. Owing to this endeavour some important facts, which would
have aided the progress of science, have been consigned to oblivion. The
explanations with which the observers accompanied their statements of facts
cast doubt upon the whole matter, and thus, as we say, emptied out the
child with the bath. This has happened with the divining rod. It
certainly would not have been so exalted on one side, or so despised on the
other, if nothing more than a history of the way in which it works had
been narrated.
I will now place before the intelligent public a contribution to the
history of the divining rod, which is all the more important because the
man of whom I am going to speak is still alive; the people for whom he
sought water, metals, and minerals, are still alive, and testify to the truth
of his statements. I became acquainted with him in the course of a recent
84 Jo'u/rnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jrmz,1899.
journey in the Netherlands ; and when I told Professors Nasse and
Windischmann, in Bonn, the facts of the case, they urged me to place them
before the learned world.
John Philipp Brayer was 35 years old when I met him. He was the son
of a builder at Wawremont, a village near the town of Malmedy, with no
special characteristics to distinguish him from his neighbours. He was
brought up to the trade of a house decorator, at which he became very
clever, and was never without work. Five years previously to my becoming
acquainted with him he had married, and was the father of two healthy
boys. He gave me an account of his experiences with the rod in the course of
a long conversation carried on partly in French and partly in the Walloon
language.*
“ I was born early on the ﬁrst Sunday in the quarter. The same morn
ing, between 11 and 12 o’clock, I was taken to the church to be baptised.
The minister told the god-parents that a boy who was born the ﬁrst Sunday
in the quarter, and baptised before 12 o’clock, would be able to use the
divining rod. My god-parents did not know what was meant by a divining
rod, but they told my father what the minister had said. My father had
heard stories about the rod, but he only smiled ; and for the ﬁrst ﬁve years
of my life nothing was said about it. When I was ﬁve years old a colporteur
called at my father’s house, and, talking of one thing and another, told him
about the rod and its properties, and that there were men who could use it.
My father then recollected what the minister had said when I was baptised,
and told the colporteur, who replied that it was not a thing to he laughed at
or despised. ‘Come,’ he said, ‘let us try.’ My father was willing, cut a
rod from a hazel-bush, hid a handful of money in a ﬁeld a long way from
the house, put the rod into my hand, led me to the door, and said :—‘I have
hidden some money ; go and seek for it: the rod will show thee where it
is.’ I was highly delighted. I felt the rod draw me in a certain direction,
and then it moved round in a circle in my hands. I followed the indication,
and came to the place where the money was buried. Here the rod pointed
downwards. I have at different times found water, metals, lost metallic
articles, and building-stone. The matter was known through the whole
neighbourhood. When builders required water for new houses, when keys
or money or other things had been lost, I was fetched, and if water or
metals were present where it was believed or desired, I was certain to be
successful. Sometimes the rod gave no indication, that is, it did not draw
me, and did not move. I then said :—‘ There is nothing here of what I am
seeking.’ If they still did not believe me and dug, they found nothing.
For the ﬁrst few years I used to talk to the rod, and tell it what it was we
were asked to ﬁnd. Later on I abandoned this. It was suﬂicient if I
ﬁrmly had in my mind what was to be sought for. If I sought for water, that
is, if I had it strongly before me that it was water I was to seek for, and
* Dr. D’Outrepont gives this conversation at length, and in dialogue form;
because, he says, the answers were so deﬁnite and circumstantial that they would lose
in force and value as a mere narrative. But as more convenient for the present
purpose, the replies are connected and condensed in the form of a statement.—TR.
Jmm,1s99.] Contribution to History of Divining Rod. 85
there happened to be metal where I sought for water, the rod would
indicate nothing, and vice versd. It was needful for me to have a ﬁxed will,
then I found what I sought. Up to my thirteenth year, certainly, the rod
never deceived me, but after this, when I had partly lost my faith, it is
possible that when the object sought for was present, no indication was
given. Up to that time I had felt perfect conﬁdence, though that conﬁdence
had sometimes brought me much vexation.
“In this way. My father made my ability to ﬁnd water and metals a
source of income. He took me long rounds, and was handsomely remunerated.
I did not like this at all. Such a gift of God 'should never be used for gain.
But it was my father’s will, and I had to obey. Many people thought they
had hidden treasures, and got us to come and seek for them. Others thought
there was water, here or there. But when I found nothing, the people
ridiculed us, and gave us nothing, although myfather had lost his time.
They told me I had no sense, and that the rod was nothing but charlatanry.
This ill-treatment disconcerted me, and I lost my ﬁrm faith.
“The young people in the village would hide money, and say I should
have it if I found it. I wouldn’t try. But sometimes, owing to their
persistence, and mocking doubts of my power, I would seek and ﬁnd what
they had hidden. Again, sometimes they would deceive me, and tell me
they had hidden a thing when they had not done so. Sometimes they would
put money in trees, or in the upper parts of houses. In these cases I was
unable to ﬁnd it. At last, owing to ridicule and unfair requests, I refused
to go on such errands with my father ; and when I discovered that I could
not ﬁnd water or metals which were above me, I still further lost faith in
the infallibility of the rod ; and I did not feel like the same man.
“ After this, I persuaded my father to alter his business arrangements,
so that I had no occasion any longer to use the rod as a means of earning
money, but only for the beneﬁt of my neighbours. I was, in particular,
very useful to my own family. My father, who found his house too small
for his large family, resolved to build another. I sought and found water
on a piece of land where water had never been found, and where no one
suspected its existence. This induced my father to buy it. Here it was
that, by means of the rod, I ﬁrst found building-stone. My father found it
would be very expensive to bring stone from a distance. My brother and I
begged him not to build the house of wood. One morning I went over the
ground, and sought by means of the rod to ﬁnd stone. At one particular
spot the rod moved violently. I said to my father and brother, there is
bound to be stone there. They dug down, and found the stone with which
the house was built at the exact depth I had named. This was the ﬁrst time
I had sought for and found anything except water and metal. It should be
noticed that where we found the building-stone, neither water nor metal were
present. Subsequently I found stone many times.
“I continued to use the rod occasionally till I was in my 31st year.
My wife had told me when I wanted to marry her, that, though with much
regret, she could not consent unless I would promise entirely to relinquish
its use. She looked upon it as a kind of witchcraft. I gave her the promise,
86 J0-u/rnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jusr,1s99.
.. T~‘_T_-f-—--—- --_._._
and as an honourable man, kept my word. I have never used it since,
though I often look back with pleasure on the great amount of good I have
done by means of it.
“ I never found that the season of the year, the day of the week, or the
hour made any difference. I always used a forked hazel-rod. I do not
know whether any other shape would have done as well. Some people once
brought an old book to my father, in which there was a picture of a rod
exactly like the one I used. It did not make any difference whether I or
other people out the rod. When I cut it myself I always said :—‘ Fasse le
ciel et la baguette.’ Whether other people used these words I do not know,
and whether they were necessary I do not know. I know that the result
was good, and so I continued the practice.
“ The rod used to move in a circle, and when the object I sought lay in
the direction in which I was looking, the point of the rod moved towards
the direction, i.e., away from me. But if the object was behind me, the
point moved in the reverse direction, 1'-.e., towards me. It was very pretty
to see. I would go several times across the spot where the water or the
metal was. The rod would gradually stand still and then turn itself in the
opposite direction. The Violence of the motion was in proportion to the
mass of the object sought. If, for instance, there was much water, it
moved quickly; if only a small quantity, the movement was slower. I
could not stop it, and if I held the rod ﬁrmly with both hands it would
break. It was this that so astonished the bystanders. But I rarely let this
happen, because it so affected my heart, making it beat violently as if I had
committed a crime, and made me feel depressed all the rest of the day.
“ When the rod moved I had a drawing feeling through both arms, which
sometimes extended to the heart, but I could not say that it was either
painful or disagreeable. I was often asked at what depth would the water
be found when its presence was indicated by the rod. I looked straight at
the rod, and it would make as many strokes downwards as the number of
feet at which the water would be found. It would strike violently down—
wards till it had indicated the depth at which the object sought for would
be found, and then raising itself up again would descend slowly by the
force of gravitation. This gave me great pleasure, and also excited great
astonishment because, by digging, the water or metal was always found as I
had foretold.”
Here ended this interesting conversation. Every one who had known
this man, and had seen him at his work, conﬁrmed the truth of his state
ments. He spoke so ingenuously and with such simplicity, that it was
impossible not to feel great conﬁdence in him.
On my return through Cobleutz I told Councillor Dr. Wegeler the whole
story. We were in company with a merchant with whom Brayer had
done much business. A Mr. Gaufrei, who was also in the same trade, and
upon whose testimony I can rely, assured us that he had many times seen
Brayer seek for water and metal with the best results. I could not enter
tain any doubt but that he had told me the simple truth.
Jcm, 1899.] Cases. 87
CASES.
M. Cl. 98.
The following case is communicated by Dr. Bringhurst, of
Nacogdoches, Texas, U.S.A. :—
February 9th, 1899.
While the circumstances herein related occurred long ago. they are among
the most vivid of the recollections of my youth; the witnesses were
intelligent and competent, and no trick or deception was possible.
I do not remember the year exactly, but it was about 1857 (spiritualism
being then considerably talked about) that in the neighbourhood where I
was living,_in the state of Louisiana, we began to hear of table-rappings,
and other manifestations, which were taking place at the houses of various
people. Now there lived in the neighbourhood a young woman of blameless
character, whose name was Miss Louisa L. She lives in the same parish of
Louisiana to-day, and is married and teaching school. This Miss L. was
the “ medium ” in the neighbourhood. Much of her time was spent at the
home of an aunt of mine, still living, who can vouch for these statements.
She was also occasionally at my mother’s house, and at that of my grand
father, a wealthy planter of that section. Miss L. was not a professional
“ medium.” . . .
One day this young lady, Miss L., was visiting at my grandfather’s, and
a “seance ” was held there. Quite a number were present. A message
was received, addressed to my grandfather, who just then did not happen to
be in the house. The wording of the message was to this effect : “ Do you
remember when I went from the card table and committed suicide?” The
message was signed by a name totally unknown to anybody present. My
grandfather ﬁnally came into the house, and was immediately shown the
communication, and asked if he had known the author. He read it, and
exclaimed in great astonishment and consternation, “Yes, by the Lord
Harry! I knew him well.” He then related how, very many years before
that time, he was travelling with the party whose name was signed to the
message, on a Mississippi or Red River steamboat, and how, while a game of
cards was going on, the said party went out and killed himself. Now the
‘ ‘medium/’ incontestably, had never heard of the man whose name was signed
to the message, and he was unknown to any one in the house, except my
grandfather. It was plain to us all that no common agency was at the
bottom of these remarkable “manifestations.”
I certify to the correctness of the foregoing, and beg to subscribe
myself, with great respect, your obedient servant,
W. L. BRmoHuRsT, Ph.D.
Superintendent, Public Schools of the City of
Nacogdoches, Texas, U.S.A.
M. 99.
From the report of a meeting of the Clinical Society of Maryland,
held October 21st, 1898 (Maryland Medical Journal, November 5th,
88 Journal of Society for Psychwlcal Resewrch. [Jum:,18:\9.
1898), we extract the following primd fizcie case of double personality,
communicated by Dr. W. L. Howard.
Mr. B., a respected business man; married and the father of three
children. His position caused him to travel extensively in America—from
the Paciﬁc to the Atlantic Oceans; from the Gulf of Mexico to Hudson
Bay. About ten years ago he commenced to go away from home without
giving any deﬁnite statement of where he was going or when he would
return. Upon his return he would not, or could not, give any direct answer
as to where he had been. On these occasions he appeared slightly dazed in
memory and intellect, and his appearance was that of a man who had aged
greatly from want of sleep. Two years ago, in the month of October, he
disappeared, and no trace of him could be found until he returned home on
January 14th. A man who knew him in his own city found him a month
prior to this date conducting a country cross-roads store on the upper
Potomac. He carried on business under the name of Simpson, and had been
known under this name since he had been in the village. He did not know
his former acquaintance, and the repeated mentioning of his true name,
“Mr. B.,” he at ﬁrst took as a joke, then became indignant, and was so
positive in stating that he was Simpson, giving his past history, stating he
was from Oregon, and going into full and complete details of his life and
business in that State, that the former friend went away fully convinced of
his mistaken identity.
One peculiarity Simpson, as we must now call him, had, was his passion
for ﬁshing, giving, as one excuse why he had chosen to settle in the little
village, the good bass ﬁshing he could enjoy in the river. On the morning
of January 14th he appeared at his own house, to the surprise and joy of
his family. He was Mr. B. again, but no questions as to his past where
abouts could he answer. Only when he became convinced of the lapse of
time did he realise that something strange and abnormal had happened to
him. On account of the position he held, the family had kept the matter
quiet, and as he was away from the city so frequently and for long periods
his business acquaintances were easily satisﬁed with excuses. Worried over
the state of affairs, and appreciating his lapse of memory, his wife persuaded
him to consult me. In his normal condition I could elicit no information,
yet he did his best to aid me. His memory of the last three months was a
blank, and he was pitiably nervous and worried. Without much diﬂiculty
he was hypnotised, and through tentative suggestions he gradually veered
around to his other personality. He said, when I suggested his name was
unknown to me and he must tell me, “D—n it! you know my name is
Simpson; what do you want to bother me about it for? You remember
that, or else I don’t take you ﬁshing.”
“ Well, Mr. Simpson, let's go ﬁshing.”
“ All right ; wait till the boy comes back and I will close up the store.”
“ By the way, Mr. Simpson, how far is it to the city ? ”
“ Oh, about forty miles.”
By this manner of questioning Mr. Simpson, I found where the body of
JuNE,1899.] 4 “Sounds from the Un7mown.” 89
Mr. B. had been. The next day I hunted up Mr. Simpson’s store, and
found, indeed, that such an individual existed in the life of the village.
Subsequent investigations cleared the whole matter satisfactorily, as far as
Mr. Simpson was concerned.
“SOUNDS FROM THE UNKNOWN.”
From an article in Psychische Studien, February, 1899.
Translated by EDWARD T. BENNETT.
Under this title the following account appears in Psychische
Studicn for February, 1899, p. 112. It is taken from the Sunday
Supplement of No. 580, Vol. for 1898, of the Rez'chsher0ld, edited by Dr.
Biickel, at Marburg. John Henry von Thiinen, who was born on June
24th, 1783, at Kanarienshausen, in Jeverland, is stated to have been a
prominent land owner and agriculturalist, aman of considerable mental
power, the writer of various books, especially of a standard work
entitled Der Isolirte Staat und seine Gesetze. In his letters Thiinen
is said to exhibit himself as a man of thorough sincerity, noble
disposition, and elevated character. Thiinen had three sons, the
second of whom, Alexander, his favourite child, died in the year 1831,
at the age of seventeen. The following is an extract from a letter
to his friend Christian von Buttel in reference to this loss, which
he felt greatly.
“In the night between the 10th and 11th of October, three days after
Alexander’s death, my wife and I were awake between two and three o’clock.
My wife asked me if I did not hear the distinct sound of a bell. I listened,
and heard such a sound, but put it down to a delusion of the senses. The
following night we were again awake at the same hour, and heard the same
sounds, but more clearly and distinctly. We both compared them to the
striking of a bell which was deﬁcient in melody, but in the reverberation of
which there was music. We listened long. I asked my wife to point in
the direction from which the music seemed to come, and when she indicated
exactly the same spot from which I seemed to hear it, it almost took my
breath away. My two sons, in spite of all their eﬁ'orts, heard nothing. The
same thing was repeated during the following nights. A few days later I heard
the music in the evening, but it died away towards midnight, beginning
again soon after 2 o’clock in the morning. On October 18th, Alex-ander’s
birthday, the music was particularly beautiful and harmonious. My wife
found it extremely soothing and strengthening. But to me the feeling of
rest which it produced was only transient. The uncertainty whether it was
a reality or only a delusion of the senses continually disturbed me, and the
endeavour to arrive at a conclusion kept me in a constant state of strain.
For more than four weeks my sleep at night was so broken that I became
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Resecwch. [Juxm, 1899.
quite worn out. I used carefully to listen if I could detect any connection
between the beating of my pulse and the time of the music, but could ﬁnd
none. In the course of these four weeks the character of the music greatly
changed ; it became much stronger, so that it was audible in the midst of all
kinds of noises, and was a hindrance to my reading and writing in the evenings.
But as it grew stronger, the beautiful harmony diminished, and at this time
we could only compare it to the sound produced by a number of bells.
clanging simultaneously. At last even my wife wished it would cease, as the
clanging shook our nerves and greatly affected them. In the middle of
November entire silence ensued, neither my wife nor myself hearing the
least sound.
“ Now the doubt again arose whether this music of the spheres had not
been only a result of our excited state of mind and feeling. My wife felt
sad and melancholy. But again after about eight days the music began,
very gently at ﬁrst, and continued until Christmas. On Christmas Eve it
sounded with unusual strength, clear and melodious, and with a force and
variety of expression we had never before experienced. After Christmas it again
ceased. On New Year’s Eve we listened in vain, and this silence continued
through most of January. My wife and I had now heard the music, both when
we were cheerful and when we were depressed, both when we were ill and
when we were well. It always came in the same manner, and apparently
from the same direction. It was not possible for us any longer to entertain a
doubt as to its reality. At this time we thought it had entirely departed.
However, at the end of January it began again, but entirely changed in
character. The sounds of bells had gone, and tones of ﬂutes took their place.
At the beginning of March the music was remarkably loud and harmonious,
but the tones of the ﬂute had now vanished again, and we could only
compare it to the singing of a choir with musical accompaniment. At one
time, we both thought,—though only for a moment—that we could
distinguish words. On March 21st, my wife’s birthday, the music
assumed once more a diﬂierent character, beautiful, but at the same
time almost fearful. We were neither of us able to compare it with any
thing earthly."
Here the extract from J. H. von Thiinen’s letter ends. The
following paragraph is added in Psychische Studien, apparently taken
from his biography :—
“This wonderful music was often heard subsequently, especially on
family anniversaries. It did not cease, even after the death of the wife,
but continued as a faithful and loving companion through the lives of both
Herr and Frau von Thiinen. They admitted that these sounds, which were
undeniably perceived by their ears, gave them no information as to that
which was separated from them by time and space, that their intelligence
and ideas were in no way extended ;—but believed that ‘ your son Alexander
is yet alive,’ was thus declared to them, and this ﬁrm conviction was to
them their greatest joy."
Jun, 1899.] Correspondence. 91
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by C'0rresp0ndents.
ON PoLTERGEIsTs.
SIR,—I should like to make a brief reply to the letters on this subject
by Dr. Wallace and Mrs. Barker, which appeared in the Journal for April
and May respectively.
Dr. Wallace demurs to my casting doubts on Councillor Hahn’s evidence
because it was given eighteen months after the events. But Dr. Wallace
would no doubt admit that Hahn’s evidence—however good it may be as it
stands —would have been better if it had been given contemporaneously. My
own view is that, in that case, though evidentially better, it might probably
not have seemed to Dr. Wallace so well-adapted for his purpose.
But perhaps I may be allowed to complete my answer to Dr. Wallace by
continuing the examination of the nine cases cited by him. I will take them
in order.
(4) Bealings Bells. —The evidence is ﬁrst-hand ; it is practically con
temporaneous, being based on notes made at the time, and written out in
full within a day or two at most ; the witness is a Fellow of the Royal
Society, who records with scrupulous care the atmospheric conditions, the
readings of barometer and thermometer; and points out with justice that
the phenomena cannot be explained by “the known laws of the electric
theory ” or the expansion of metals by rise of temperature. And yet, as a
witness, Major Moor shows himself on a level with the servant girl who
has her fortune told by the cards.
On February 5th, 1834,—that is, three days after the bell-ringing began,
—he writes :—“ I am thoroughly convinced that the ringing is by no human
agency” (p. 5).
No reason is given for this conviction.
On February 27th he writes :—‘‘It is possible” that it is all due to
trickery (p. 9).
No reason is given for the change of opinion.
A few days later (p. 22) he repeats his conviction that the bells “were
not rung by any mortal hand.”
No new facts had come to light in the interval and no reasons are given
for this second change of opinion.
Again, though devoting many pages to describing the courses and the
attachments of the wires, the state of the weather and so on, Major Moor
never tells us of whom his household consisted and never describes a single
occasion on which, when they were all gathered together in his presence, the
bel1~ringing occurred. Further, a writer in the Ipswich Journal made the
sensible suggestion that Major Moor should begin his investigations by
gathering all his household into one room and posting trustworthy friends
round about the house. Major Moor, in quoting the letter, adds, “I did
not in any way follow the advice therein offered.”
I venture to suggest, as a plausible theory, that Major Moor, in homely
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Juss, 1899.
phrase, “ was not such a fool as he looks ; ” and that his book is a gentle
satire on those who were ready, on such evidence as that here offered, to
believe in supernormal or even unfamiliar agencies.
(5) The Baldarroch (Banchory) distm~bances.—Mackay does not quote any
authority for his statements : his account is therefore at best second-hand,
and may be still more remote. But if such evidence is good at all, I submit
that it is good all round. Mackay tells us not only that stones and crockery
were thrown about, but that several ricks danced about the farmyard. and
that the Devil was seen sitting on the top of the house.
(6) Mary Jobson. of Simderland.—Dr. Wallace says that Dr. Reid Clanny
“ published an account of the extraordinary things witnessed by himself, and
also by three other medical men and other persons, sixteen in all.”
Dr. Clanny himself neither saw nor heard anything of the alleged
phenomena.* Of the ﬁve medical men, besides Dr. Clanny, mentioned
by name as having visited the girl during her illness, two only have given
an account of what they witnessed. Both these, Mr. R. B. Embleton
and Mr. Drury, were young men. Neither of them saw anything
out of the way; but both heard knocks and loud scratchings—
apparently on the foot of the wooden bedstead in which the
child of 12 lay. Dr. Drury also, calling on the child after her recovery,
heard at her suggestion very beautiful music, and Mr. Embleton was
specially invited to hear “ the voice.” [There is no suggestion, on the part
of the medical witnesses, that “ the voice ” did not proceed from the child’s
own vocal organs] The voice, which Mr. Embleton describes as realising
his ideas of angelic sweetness, dictated as follows :—“I am the Lord thy
God that brought thee out of the land of Egypt, etc. . . . I am the
physician of the Soul. This is a miracle wrought on earth . . . Mark, I am
thy God sounding out of the Heavens,” etc., etc. The knocks, the throwing
about of water, the painting on the ceiling, and so on, which are described
by the other eleven witnesses [there are thirteen ﬁrst hand witnesses only]
all of whom were apparently uneducated and superstitious neighbours, appear
to me simply the puerile trickeries of a hysterical girl. Her ailment, which
baﬂled all the physicians (or rather the three physicians who have
written about the case), was as obviously hysterical as the “ voices”
were obviously blasphemous. The cure was as mysterious as the disease.
After eight months of dropsy and convulsions (Dr. Embleton), brain disease
(Dr. Clanny), intolerable torture (all the witnesses), she suddenly turned
her sympathising relatives out of the room, dressed herself in a quarter of an
hour, and was completely restored to health. I cannot help thinking that
Dr. Clanny’s enthusiastic belief in the genuineness of the case was largely
due to the fact that the girl (amongst whose affable spirits were the Virgin
Mary and a large circle of apostles and martyrs) told him that his name had
* Dr. Wallace may perhaps have been misled by W. Howitt, who writes (History
of the Supernutwral. Vo1. IL, p. 450), “Dr. Clanny saw and heard various striking
phenomena in her presence.” But Dr. Clanny himself saw nothing, and only heard
some knocks in his bedroom, not demonstrably connected with the girl at all, which
occurred weeks after the phenomena in her presence had ceased.
Jmm, 1899.] Correspondence. 93
been favourably mentioned to her at different times by Jesus Christ, St. Paul,
and St. Peter. Dr. Clanny quotes this amazing statement in all seriousness.
(7) The Disturbances at Ai'ensburg.—As Dr. Wallace tells us, the facts
were communicated * to Dale Owen by M\\9 de Guldenstubbé and her
brother. They had heard them from the late Baron. The account, as it
reaches us, is therefore third-hand. Neither Dale Owen nor his informants
profess to have seen the documents which constitute the strength of the
evidence. Until we have a certiﬁed copy of those documents, the case,'I
submit, is not before the court.
(8) Stone-throwing in Paris.—The evidence in this case consists of an
account drawn up for the Gazette des T*ri'b1ma:wc by a writer who does not give
his name and who does not profess to have been an eye-witness of tlie events.
From the appearance of this anonymous account in a seintoﬁ"1cial organ [for
the Gazette is not, I understand, strictly speaking an otlicial publication], it
is perhaps safe to infer that the stones were thrown and that the police were
puzzled. So far the evidence is good. But we should not be justiﬁed in
inferring anything else.
(9) The distm'b(mces in Cideville.—This is, on the face of it, the most
promising, with the exception of the Wesley case, of all the narratives cited
by Dr. Wallace. The witnesses—a Marquis, the local Mayor, the Curé,
various gentry from neighbouring chftteaux, etc.—were numerous, respect
able, and may be presumed to have been intelligent; they gave their evidence
whilst the disturbances were still proceeding ; and, lastly, most of them
gave it with all due formality in a Court of Law. Unfortunately I have not
seen a copy of the original depositions, which were printed and circulated in
1852 by the Marquis de Mirville. De Mirville does not reprint them in his
book “Des Esprits.” He contents himself there with a summary, given in
his own words, without full details of place, time or circumstances. Nor is
the character of De Mirville’s account—an excited and incoherent jumble of
fragments of evidence, interspersed with rhetorical appeals to the unbelievers
—at all calculated to inspire conﬁdence in his competence as a reporter.
Dale Owen’s account of the matter, which is based on the actual depositions
contained in De Mirville’s earlier pamphlet, is more valuable. But the
testimony, as Dale Owen presents it, is not only translated, but very much
abridged. The case is a very curious and interesting one; but unless the
original documents can be referred to (perhaps Dr. Wallace can say whether
De Mirville's pamphlet is still accessible) it would be scarcely proﬁtable to
discuss it at length. The case, as far as can be judged, is of the usual type
—movements of furniture and small objects, and various noises, and, in
particular, raps which answered questions. The whole of the phenomena
occurred, it would seem, generally, if not exclusively, in the presence of two
small boys, and ceased entirely with their removal.
I am sorry to ﬁnd that I had not made my argument clear to Mrs.
Barker : and I am the more sorry because I can see that the fault is partly
my own. In the sentence which Mrs. Barker quotes from my letter I draw
* Not, it is to be presumed, in writin : Dale Owen’s words are, "The facts
_ 8
above narrated were detailed to me, ” etc.
94 Journal of Society f0?‘ Psychical Research. [Jmm, 1599.
the conclusion that the Epworth disturbances were caused by Miss Hetty
Wesley. The evidence is hardly suﬁcient to justify that conclusion : nor is
that conclusion necessary to the argument. If, indeed, I were required to
specify the agency in the Epworth knockings, I should say that on the
evidence before us the most probable explanation is that Hetty VVesley
caused them : that she caused them deliberately : and that she caused them
by the exertion of her proper muscular powers, without assistance from dis
embodied spirits, or even from pseudopodia, odylic force, astral emanations,
or other supernormal supplement.
But on the evidence in this particular case, Hetty’s agency in the matter
is, at most, probable. What seems to me, however, practically certain, on
an analysis and comparison of all the cases which I have yet examined, is
that Hetty, or some other human girl or boy, without metaphysical aid of
any kind, has been the sole agent in all such disturbances. I am led to that
conclusion—reluctantly, and against my own preconceived beliefs—by two
main lines of argument :—
(1) We have positive evidence that in some cases tricky little girls or
boys have thrown about the less expensive crockery and upset the kitchen
furniture with their own carnal hands, whilst the onlookers have accepted
the portent as a manifestation of supernormal powers.
(2) We have, speaking broadly, no evidence (and by “no evidence” I
mean no good evidence: and by “good evidence” I mean evidence from
competent witnesses, at ﬁrst-hand, and written down within a few hours of
the events) for anything having been done which could not have been done
by a girl or boy of slightly more than the average naughtiness.
(3) As asubsidiary argument, I ﬁnd, in the few cases where the records
are suﬂiciently full to admit of such a comparison being madc, that when
second-hand accounts and ﬁrst-hand accounts of the same incidents are
compared : or when accounts written down at the time are compared with
accounts written down long afterwards ; or accounts given by an excitable
and ignorant witness with those of an educated and competent observer;
that the marvellous features which appear in the one set of reports are
almost or altogether wanting in the other.
Now the peculiar value of the Wesley records, as I pointed out. lies in
their fulness; we have the (unfortunately very rare) opportunity of seeing
the same incident described by different persons—by the person who
witnessed it, and by the persons who only heard of it : we are also able to
compare different versions of the same incident given by the actual witness
shortly after the event, and at an interval of many years.
I have endeavoured to show that, while in the earlier ﬁrst-hand accounts
there is nothing inexplicable by trickery, in the second-hand and later ﬁrst
hand accounts the mythopoeic faculty has been at work, and has so magniﬁed
and distorted the facts as to make them seem inexplicable.
When any records can be produced as full as those in the Wesley case,
and pointing to some supernormal agency as conclusively as these point to
trickery and the fallacy of human memories, it will be time to consider
seriously the question of the Poltergeist.
FRANK PomuoEE.
Jmm, 1899.] Cowespondence. 95
ON DRsAns oF FLYING.
Tour de Peilz, Vaud, April 19th, 1899.
DEAR SIR,—I wish you would open an inquiry on a subject which I think
interesting, viz., the habit of dreaming that one can ﬂy.
I have been a prey to that pleasant delusion ever since my childhood.
The ﬁrst occasion which I can go back to in my memory is one that I have
good reason to remember, as it nearly made a cripple of me for life.
I was seven years old. I had dreamt that I had discovered in me that
delightful power of ﬂying about like one of the sparrows that I used to feed
with the crumbs of my breakfast. The dream was so vivid that I woke up
in the morning shouting: “How jolly! I can ﬂy."
In my eagerness to experiment on my newly found powers I rushed out of
bed, got upon a high sideboard and jumped head foremost into space . . .
to ﬁnd myself, soon after, lying bruised and half crazy with fright on the
ﬂoor.
I was, of course, for ever cured of attempting such feats; but I have
never since ceased to dream the same dream from time to time, say once or
twice every month. I was speaking of sparrows ; do not conclude therefrom
that I had, either in my dream or after, tried to ﬂy with my arms used
instead of wings. Whenever I have that dream, I go through space
without any motion of the limbs, only by an effort of will continually
reproduced as long as I want to stand in mid air.
For instance, I dream that I am walking along the street. All at once,
I seem to feel that power rising in me, and I say to myself, “This time I am
not dreaming ;” and exercising at once that power, I take leave of the ground
and begin to soar upwards, sometimes over walls and houses, very gently,
impelled forward by a mere volition.
Or I dream that I am in my study, writing at my desk. Something stirs
within me. “Now, I am sure I can do it ! ”—and then, getting up from my
chair, to be sure, I begin to roam about the room half way between the ﬂoor
and the ceiling, with a delight that is not to be expressed in words. But
soon, feeling the want of more space for my evolutions, I open the window,
and issuing gently from the room I start for. the open country over hedges
and trees. Finally I cease to dream, but without waking up, and it is only
in the morning when I get up, that I remember, with a sigh, my fancied
powers.
I have sometimes spoken to friends about it and asked them for their
experience. Some knew nothing of that kind of dream. Others knew about
it; and when I inquired fart-her—was it by a ﬂapping of the arms that they
fancied themselves able to ﬂy, or how ?—they have invariably answered that
it was, like myself, by a mere volition.
What may be the cause of that ever-recurring dream?
A medical friend answered at once: “Digestion. When you feel that you
can ﬁy, it is simply that your stomach having completed its work, a feeling
of relief gives you that buoyancy and delusion.” As I have never known
where my stomach is, nor ever felt that I had one, I ﬁnd it hard to accept
this medical theory.
96 Journal of Society for 138;:/chical Research. [JuNE, 1899.
- :--':'T-——--- -*-we-i -'..._, , L, V 7
Does the dream come to me as a reminder of- a former, an avian stage of
life? Have I been a bird in some remote age of the world, long before our
species developed into human beings? I think not. It is by the ﬂapping of
their wings that birds ﬂy; and in my dream both legs and arms remain
perfectly motionless.
Does my spirit come out of my body and soar unfettered into the air?
No, because I should have the impression that I depart from the body, and
perhaps see it behind me. And on the contrary it is I in the body that go
about at will in opposition to the laws of gravitation.
Is there, dormant in us, a power which shall develop one day the faculty
of progressing through space at will by a mere volition? Who knows but that
this might be a higher stage towards which we are gradually advancing? Or,
may be, a kind of premonition of what shall take place when, with an astral
body, we leave our present sphere? .
Now, dear Sir, if like Terence, uihil hmnaml a te al1'cmr.m putas,
perhaps you will kindly elicit from the readers of the Journal an answer
to this query: “Do you dream that dream, and what do you think of
it 1 ”—Yours truly,
AUG. GLARDoN.
A CAse oF TRIPLE PERsoNALITY.
SIR,——-The paper by Dr. Morton Prince, entitled as above, and read by
Mr. Myers at the last meeting of the S.P.R., is both interesting and sugges
tive, but makes one regret that the doctor did not pursue the matter a little
further, or conduct his experiments a little differently. Dr. Prince is
presumably experienced in the practice of hypnotism, and it would be
useful to know whether, as a- rule, his subjects split up under hypnotism
into one, two, or more personalities? Man is undoubtedly a far more
intricate piece of mechanism than commonly supposed, but he is probably
made alike all the world over, and a process which disintegrates the
personality in one case might be expected to do so in all cases. Is this,
therefore, the rule or the exception ? Do hypnotised subjects usually speak
of themselves as “I,” “he,” or “she”? Dr. Prince apparently believes
in the three in one, since he enumerates X 1, X 2, and X 3. When X 3
appeared—ﬂippant, merry, and mischievous, utterly unlike X 1 and 2,
why was she not asked, “ Who are you ? ” “ What is your name ? ” Had
she replied, “I am X, of course,” Dr. Prince’s theory would have gained
some amount of conﬁrmation; while if, on the other hand, X 3 had
declared herself to be a totally distinct person, some other explanation
would have been needed. Perhaps Dr. Prince will have something more to
tell us presently, and the experience of other hypnotists may serve to
elucidate the truth.
E. BRoWNE.
April 29th, 1899.
No. CLXI.—VoL. IX. JuLY, 1899.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RESEARCH.
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 97
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 98
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 98
The Cure of Warts by suggestion .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 100
Case.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I04
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Illembers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
JoRDAN—SMITH, BENJAMIN, A.R.C.S., F.C.S., Lower Chaplin~road,
Longton, Staffs.
NUGRNT, MRs. ARTHUR, 83, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W'.
PITTER, RoBERT A., The School of Medicine, Middlesex Hospital, W.
Rashdall, Rev. Hastings, M.A., D.C.L., New College, Oxford.
Russell, Rev.T. H., St.Martin’s Vicarage, Vicar’s-rd.,Gospel Oak,N.W.
SAUNDERs, MRs. WV. H. RADCLIFFE, 29, Bramham-gardens, South
Kensington, S.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BILL, GEoRGE E., M.D., Harrisburgh, Pa. _
CLossoN, DR. JAMEs H., 53, West Chelton-avenue, Germantown, Pa.
DAvIs, DR. D. W., 402, Land Title Building, Philadelphia, Pa.
ELLIoTT, MIss ALMA C., 4916, Washington-avenue, Chicago, Ill.
Hour, DR. L. E., 15, East 54th-street, New York, N.Y.
JAMIsoN, A. B., M.D., 43, West 45th-street, New York, N.Y.
JEWET1‘, PRoFEssoR FRANKLIN N., Fredonia, N.Y.
LAYMAN, DR. ALFRED, 1630, N. 18th-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
RANE, DR. C. S., 121, North 10th-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
SAWYER, MRs. A. M., 188, Institute-road, Worcester, Mass.
SEARs, MRs. J. M., 12, Arlington-street, Boston, Mass.
SPRAGUE, MRs. E. E., Flushing, N.Y.
98 Journal of Society for 1’eychicat Research. [JuLY,1899
TRIPP, DWIGHT K., 1317, Monadnock Block, Chicago, Ill.
VAILL, MIss ANNIE E., 23, East 48th-street, New York, N.Y.
WATsoN, THoMAs A., Weymouth, Mass.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council was held on June 23rd at the Rooms of
the Society. The President occupied the chair. There were also
present, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur
Smith, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Mr. C. F._G. Masterman was proposed for co-optation on the
Council at its next meeting.
Two new Members and four new Associates were elected. The
election of ﬁfteen new Associates of the American Branch was
recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
The Council recorded with regret the decease of three Associates of
the Society, Dr. H. Bendelack Hewitson, Mr. W. Scott Hill, and Col.
Reynolds.
Some presents to the Library were acknowledged with thanks to
the donors.
The Council was informed that, owing to his continued absence in
America, Dr. Hodgson was desirous of resigning the editorship of the
Proceedings and Journal. It was concluded to accept his resignation,
and on the proposition of Mr. F. W. H. Myers, seconded by Mr. H.
Arthur Smith, Miss Alice Johnson, of N ewnham College, Cambridge,
was elected as Editor, the appointment to date from the 24th of June.
It was agreed that General Meetings be held in the autumn, on
Friday, November 17th, at 4 p.m., and on Friday, December 15th, at
8.30 p.m.
Other matters of business having been attended to, the Council
decided to meet again, at 19, Buckingham Street, W.C., on Friday,
October 13th, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 100th General Meeting of the Society was held in the Council
Chamber at the Westminster Town Hall, at 8.30 p.m., on Friday,
June 23rd. DR. ABRAHA.\1 VVALLACE occupied the chair.
The CHAIRMAN expressed his regret that Professor Barrett was
unable to be present owing to illness, and that therefore the paper
Jun, 1899.] General Meeting. ' 99'
down in his name would be deferred. Mr. Podmore also, who had
offered to read a paper, was ill ; but his paper would be read by Mr.
Myers, who would also bring some other matter before the meeting.
MR. F. ‘V. H. MrERs prefaced his reading of certain cases with
a few words to the following elTect:—I appear as the stop-gap of a
stop-gap. In the ﬁrst place, Professor Barrett had promised for this
meeting the conclusion of his long and exhaustive discussion of the
Divining Rod; but an attack of inﬂuenza and its consequences have
obliged him to take a sea voyage for the recovery of health, and his
paper is inevitably postponed to the autumn. Mr. Podmore then
kindly consented to read a paper in place of Professor Barrett’s—a
paper on “Speaking with Tongues ”—but an attack of inﬂuenza has
unfortunately prevented Mr. Podmore also for the present from
speaking at length in any tongue whatever. I am presently to read
his paper in the author’s place.
It seems well to take this opportunity to bring before the Society
several brief cases, which might otherwise have been crowded out,
but which all possess a real interest, whether of a negative or of a
positive kind. It is hardly needful to repeat that the object of the
Society is the attainment of knowledge, not the establishment of any
special set of views, and that, just because the positive evidence grows
stronger and stronger, it becomes more possible and more interesting
to draw the dividing line between phenomena which do actually point
to some supernormal faculty and phenomena which may indeed be
perfectly genuine, but which attest either actual disturbance of
mental balance or else some obscure psychological process which only
simulates, without truly indicating, the phenomena of telepathy, or
of clairvoyance, or of spirit-possession. I do not say that we should
attempt to deal with actual insanity; but, short of insanity, there
are many phenomena, such as those with which Mr. Podmore’s paper
deals, which we ought, I think, to discuss with care, and not without
hope of ﬁnding in their mechanism something which, while it may
illustrate the processes of insanity on the one hand, illustrates also
the processes of supernormal mentation on the other.
The ﬁrst case read was contributed by Mr. Coghill, and described
the disappearance of warts on certain horses and cows, following on a
so-called treatment by prayer or incantation. [This case is printed in
full below.] It seemed equally diﬂicult to refer these disappearances
to chance, to suggestion, or to any power of actual healing touch.
MR. GILBERT ELLIoT (of Tednambury), referring to the cure of
warts on animals, said that he had had considerable experience with
horses, and he did not think “suggestion” could apply to them at
100_ W Journal of Society for Psych/Lcal Research. [JuLY, 1899.
all, or could have anything to do with the cure. Firmness was what
inﬂuenced horses, and bringing a force to bear upon them which they
could not resist.
MIss M. H. MAsoN made some interesting remarks about a case
of the cure of warts by suggestion, which she had contributed to
the Journal for April, 1898, and referred to other cases of the
“charming” of warts and other ailments, the results of which she was
now watching. [She has kindly promised to let us have a full report
of these later.]
The other papers read consisted of an article by Dr. Alfred Russel
VVallace on the “Clairvoyance of Alexis,” which will shortly appear
in the Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXXV.; Mr. Podmore’s paper on
“Speaking with Tongues,” and a short paper by Mr. Myers on
“Some points connected with Mrs. Piper’s Trances ;” both of which
it is hoped to publish in future numbers of the Proceedings.
THE CURE OF WARTS BY SUGGESTION.
The Journal for January, 1897, contained a description of a case
of the cure of warts by “charming,” contributed by Mr. Claude P.
Coghil], of Frankville, Athboy, co. Mea-th. Mr. Coghill, as he kindly
promised to do, has continued his investigation of the subject.
Referring to the cure of the warts on his daughter’s hands (see
Journal, January, 1897) Mr. Coghill writes, under date of November
29th, 1896 :—“I send certiﬁcate of chemist who saw my daughter’s
hands both before and after the cure.” The certiﬁcate is as follows :—
Athboy, November 24th, 1896.
About four months ago Miss Ethel Coghill was brought by her nurse to
me requesting I should give a cure for warts, the child’s hands being nearly
covered with them. I gave her an advertised remedy to be applied every day.
Yesterday nurse and child called and the warts were entirely gone, the
hands smooth and nice,—no marks of any sort. Nurse told me the bottle
did no good, but that a simple cure she got from a humble man left them
as I saw them yesterday.
THos. FAGAN, Chemist and Druggist.
In Mr. Coghill’s letter, printed in the Journal above referred to,
he speaks of a horse “quite unsaleable from the size and quantity of
warts over his body,” which was cured by the same peasant in a similar
way. Mr. Coghill says in his letter of November 29th, 1896 :—“ I
now have pleasure in enclosing a statement from Mr. Parr with regard
to the cure of his horse. . . . I see that I was wrong in stating
that the horse had been seen by a vet. before calling in this man. Mr
JuLY,l8l-19.] The Cure of Warts by Suggestion. 101
Parr is, however, such an experienced man with horses, that any state
ment made by him may be considered equal to the opinion of a vet.”
Ballyboy, Athboy, Co. Meath, November 27th, 1896.
DEAR. MR. CoGHILL,—I had a bay horse last spring covered with warts.
Some of them were small, and they ranged up to the size of a swan’s egg.
There were about ﬁfty on him in all, four or ﬁve large ones. In June, when
the ﬂies commenced, I could not take him out, they would almost set him
mad, and my groom persuaded me to let John Kane, a man who lives neRr,
take them off. He got him to go over the horse one morning, about June
20th. That evening I looked at him. The large warts that had been
continually bleeding had dried up, and some of the smaller ones had quite
disappeared. In a week they were all gone, except about four. He came
again, and in another week they were all gone but one, a very large one it
was, but it had dried up to about the size of a blackbird’s egg. I sold the
horse on July 17th. The man who got him told me that one dropped off
before a week. No vet. ever saw the horse during the time I had him,
which was about a year. He had a few warts on him when I bought him.
A herd of mine had a cow. Her spins were covered with warts. The same
man took them off in a few days. —Yours very truly, B_ W_ PARR_
In a letter written on November 9th, 1896, Mr. Coghill says :—
“There is a man I know of who has some very bad warts on his
hands, and I will try to induce him to undergo the same charm. If I
can get him to consent to do so, I will photograph his hands before
and after, and will also get it duly certiﬁed by the local doctor.”
On January 13th, 1897, Mr. Coghill writes thus concerning this
case :—
Athboy, Co. Meath, Jammry 13th, 1897.
DEAR SIR, —'.[‘he cure in this case, unfortunately, is not so rapid, but
from the time of going to this man it has progressed in an interesting
manner. There was at once an improvement visible in many of the warts,
and a number of the smaller ones disappeared altogether. A fairly large
one, in photo, on the second ﬁnger, has now entirely disappeared. The large
ones on the third and little ﬁnger are greatly reduced, and show distinct signs
of falling off. This is strange, as all other warts I have seen treated by
Kane have gradually disappeared.
I remarked to the subject about a crack visible round the big warts, and
he told me that Kane told him on his ﬁrst visit that all the warts would
disappear with the exception of these two large ones, which he foretold
would drop off.
The cure in this case is a very severe test, as, owing to the subject
suffering from blood poisoning in his hand, he has for some months past been
applying an ointment, which apparently stimulated the growth of the warts
prior to undergoing Kane’s treatment. The subject tells me that he has
continued using this ointment, and has used no care in avoiding applying
same to the warts, and that Kane told him that it was probably due to this
102 Jo-wwnal of Society for Psychicai Resemrch. [Jun 1899.
fact that the warts had not disappeared before now, as he never before had
so tedious a case.
I have now asked him to forego using the ointment in the vicinity of the
warts, and when next reporting I will let you know whether this makes any
material change in the rapidity of the cure.
There are a number of good-sized warts between the little ﬁnger and third
ﬁnger which do not show in the photo. Some of the spots on the back of
the hand may have been freckles, but of this I am not certain.—Yours truly
O. P. CoGHILL.
The photograph referred to, sent to us with this letter, fully bears
out Mr. Coghill’s description.
In a letter written on February 19th, 1897, Mr. Coghill regrets
that he had had no opportunity of taking another photograph, as he
did not often see the man.
In response to a recent letter of inquiry as to whether he had
anything further of interest to communicate, Mr. Coghill has very
kindly written the following letter :—
Estate Oﬂice, Athhoy, Co. Meath, October 24th, 1898.
DEAR SIR,—. . . I now enclose two letters from two most reliable
men. One is signed by John McKenna, a member of Royal Irish Con
stabulary Force. On reading it over, I notice that he omitted to mention
that he had also a wart on his head which caused him great annoyance when
combing his hair and which was charmed at same time as the one on his hand,
the result in both cases being perfectly satisfactory; both warts disappeared
in or about same time.
The second letter is from a very respectable shopkeeper in the town and
speaks for itself. The man whose hand I photographed has been completely
cured, and there is now not a vestige of warts on the hand. I will on the
ﬁrst opportunity take another photo, and forward it to you. I may mention
in this case that although from the very ﬁrst there was a marked diminution
of warts, still it took some four or ﬁve months before the last of them
disappeared. Kane accounted for this, whether rightly or wrongly, from
fact that,owing to blood-poisoning in the hand, there was very bad circulation,
and also that an ointment which he was using, by the doctor's directions, for
blood-poisoning, was detracting from the cure.
I have not seen, since I wrote to you last, the man who was suffering
from what appeared to be cancer, but I understood from Kane that he has
failed to make a complete cure in this case, although there was a most
wonderfully marked improvement during the time he was visiting him.
Kane accounts for the failure on account of the man’s intemperate habits,
and states that he ﬁnally told the man that it was useless for him to come
to him any more unless he gave up using alcohol.
During the past year I have myself had two opportunities to judge of the
reality of the charm, as he has completely cured for me a heifer which had
very bad warts on her spins, prior to calving. So bad were they that my man
in charge of cows feared that she would never allow herself to be milked.
Jun, 1899.] The Cure of Warts by Su_gg_estioaa T1_03
I immediately sent for Kane, who succeeded by means of his charm in
removing the principal ones before calving, and the remainder fell off very
shortly after.
The second case was on a bullock, which was the worst case I ever saw of
warts, and one which, in spite of all I heard and knew of Kane, I believed to
be beyond his powers. There was a bunch of warts, as large as my two lists,
hanging from under the belly within a few inches of the ground. There
were also a number of warts round the eyes. From the day Kane ﬁrst began.
the warts for the ﬁrst time showed distinct signs of shrivelling. It took
between two or three months before the last of them ﬁnally disappeared. I
was very sorry afterwards that I did not take a photo before he began, but
I looked upon it as such a hopeless case that I did not think it worth while.
In conclusion, I may mention that under the promise of strictest secrecy
he has conﬁded to me the charm, which is in the nature of a prayer.
I must confess to my having attempted several cases without success,
and which he attributes to want of faith on my part. I certainly admit that
I was unable to feel any faith in my own power while making the attempt,
but my own opinion is that the man has some inherited power of healing by
touch. I am absolutely certain that he uses no drug of any kind.
I think in my previous letter I mentioned that his father had the same
power.—Yours faithfully, Q R CoGHILL
The following are the two enclosures Mr. Coghill refers to :—
Athboy, Co. Meath, January 30th, 1897.
C. P. CoGHILL, EsQ.,—SIR,—.-is you have expressed a desire to be
furnished with particulars relative to the cure of a wart which I had on my
hand, I beg to submit the following facts regarding the same.
The wart referred to has been on the knuckle joint of my right hand for
about three years. It being in so remarkable a place, and having grown to
a pretty large size that I was extremely anxious to have it removed, I showed
it to different medical men and chemists, who in their turn applied caustic
and several other cures, but all of no use, as the wart appeared to grow
larger until it was the size of a pea. At last I gave up the idea of trying to
have it removed by caustic, etc. One day a friend observed the wart, and
advised me to show it to Mr. John Kane, Mooneystown, Athboy, who, it was
stated, possessed a cure or charm for warts. Out of curiosity I showed the
wart to him, he looked at it, and gave the wart a rub of his hand, told me to
come again. I visited him once a week for four weeks. At the end of this
time there were visible signs of the wart disappearing ; by degrees it
eventually went, and I am now indebted to the kindness of Mr. Kane for
having no wart at all. There is no sign on the place where the wart was,
more than on any other part of the hand. These are the full and true facts
of the case.
Constable Joseph Chambers is within the knowledge of these facts, as he
accompanied me to Mr. Kane on each of the four occasions. He also saw
the caustic applied with no results.—I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
JoHN McKRmu.
1044 Journal of Society for Psycluical Reseu/rah. [Jun, 1899.
Athboy, March 27th, 1897.
C. P. CoGHILL,—DEAR Sm,—In September last I had a heifer cow timed
to calve November 1st. She had more than twenty warts of various sizes
on both spins and udder, rendering her, I should say, (to many men)
unsaleable.
Having heard that the man, John Kane, could remove them, I sent for
him, and, being myself a believer in cause and eject, I closely observed the
hand he rubbed the warts with, to see if it contained application or matter,
but it did not.
In about ten days the warts became quite shrivelled and withered-looking,
and dropped off entirely within two months.
He saw and rubbed the animal three times, and then assured me that
they required nothing more, as they were certain to drop off. They did so,
and I now say, ‘ ‘ seeing is belileving.”—Your obedient servant,
HUGH CARBERRY.
CASE.
L. 1113. Dream.
The following account of a veridical dream was sent to Mr. Myers
by a member of the S.P.R., Mr. Donald Murray, Editor of the Sydney
Morning Herald, in a letter dated Sydney, New South Wales,
July 18th, 1898. Mr. Murray sent a complete set of newspaper
cuttings relating to the shipwreck, etc., but his own account here
printed gives the essential details, and he has spared no pains in
collecting not only all the available evidence with regard to the dream,
but—what is of equal importance—as much information as possible
about the various circumstances, which is indispensable for judging
how far a genuine telepathic faculty was invol"ed in it.
THE “ATACAMA” SHIPwRuCK DREAM.
Towards the end of 1897 a Chilian ship named the Atacama, a wooden
vessel of 1,298 tons gross register, came to Sydney, New South Wales, in a
leaky condition, and was purchased by Messrs. Cowlishaw Brothers for £700.
The ship was repaired at a cost of about £1,500, sent to Newcastle, New
South Wales, by her new owners and loaded with 1,700 tons of coal, and she
sailed for San Diego, in Southern California, on January 29th, 1898.
On February 6th, when about 540 miles out from Sydney, a good deal of
water was found in the well, and as the barometer was falling rapidly
Captain Spruit, the master of the vessel, decided to return to port, and
steered for Sydney. Heavy weather was encountered, and though the
pumps were all kept going, the water gained steadily till Wednesday,
February 9th. By four p.m. on Wednesday, February 9th, there were eleven
feet of water in the well, and at six p.m. on the same day it was decided to
abandon the vessel, and the boats were launched. There were three of
these. The ﬁrst was a 24-foot life-boat. In this were Captain Spruit, able
seaman Pinto, steward Sheiner, boatswain Figuero (or Figuaro) and appren
JuLY, 1899.] Case. 105
tice Allen (aged 16). The rest of the crew [twelve in number] were in the
two other boats in charge of the ﬁrst and second mates. The boats stood
by the ship all night, and at daylight on Thursday morning, February 10th,
1898, they set sail for Sydney.
On Saturday, February 12th, high winds were encountered. During the
afternoon the wind increased, and early in the evening of Saturday a heavy
sea swamped the Captain’s boat, which shortly afterwards capsized, and the
boy Allen was drowned. The boat righted itself, and the Captain, who could
not swim, and the crew scrambled on board again and spent the night in
the boat full of water, in a hurricane, and some 300 miles from land. Next
day there was a furious gale and a high sea. Captain Spruit was washed out
of the boat and rescued either by Figuero or by Sheiner. On the 14th the
same conditions prevailed. The boat remained full of water with a high
sea and a heavy gale. The other two boats disappeared during the night.
On the 15th and 16th the weather improved, and the crew succeeded in
baling the water out of the boat. Sail was set shortly after sunrise on
February 16th, and the ship Industrie, damaged by the hurricane, was
sighted, and a tug-boat, the Leveret, from Sydney, came up to them and took
them on board about 35 miles outside of Sydney Heads. When rescued
Captain Spruit and his three companions were in the last stages of exhaus
tion from fatigue, exposure, and want of food. Their arrival caused a great
sensation in Sydney, and the newspapers were full of particulars of the
disaster and interviews with the survivors.
Accompanying this account I forward a copy of the Sydney 1l[0rm'ng
Herald, giving full details of the loss of the Atacama, with statements by
the survivors. From this account it will be seen that the escape of Captain
Spruit and his companions borders on the miraculous. The odds especially
against Captain Spruit reaching Sydney must have been enormous. Captain
Spruit and his companions were in an open boat, in mid-ocean, 400 miles
from land, without a vestige of food or water, and for days at the mercy of
a hurricane. And further, in the case of Captain Spruit it is to be
remembered that he could not swim, and that he was thrown out of the
boat into the sea.
It will also be noticed in the account in the Herald that when a reporter
called at Captain Spruit’s house to interview him, Captain Spruit “came
into the room barefooted, and with both hands bandaged. . . . . and
pointing to his uncovered feet and legs, said, ‘They tell a tale of some
trouble, don’t they ?‘ Certainly the bruises and cuts and the way they were
swollen indicated a very shocking tale of suffering."
The account in the Sydney Morning Herald concludes with the following
paragraph :—
“ A REMARKABLE DREAM.
“ Whatever may or may not be credited to superstitious ideas, startling
facts occasionally crop up which are usually regarded as curious coincidences.
This happened in reference to the loss of the Ataumm. Last Thursday
morning a daughter of Captain Spruit’s, residing at home at Balmain with
her mother and the other members of the family, narrated to the latter very
vividly a dream that she had had. In it she saw her father's ship sink, and
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Resem-ch. [Jcn, 1899.
distinctly described the captain taking to the boats with the men, how they
were dressed, and generally a number of details, which upon Captain Spruit’s
arrival at home were told to him, to his utter amazement. The time, as
near as can be judged, at which the actual taking to the boats occurred,
corresponds with that of the dream. So it was not such a surprise after
all to the family when their father reached his home from sea yesterday.
The circumstances were vouched for by Mrs. Spruit to a Herald reporter
yesterday as being in that lady’s judgment very remarkable, as, indeed, most
persons will consider them to be."
[From this stage the account has been revised by the Spruits.l
On the evening of Friday, February 18th, eight days after the dream,
and the same day as the report of the shipwreck appeared in the news
papers, I called on Captain and Mrs Spruit at their house, 26, Prosper
street, Rozelle, Balmain, a suburb of Sidney, and had a conversation with
them about their daughter’s dream. At ﬁrst only Captain and Mrs.
Spruit were present. Mrs. Spruit, in reply to enquiries, said :—
On Thursday week, at three in the morning, my daughter Lily, aged
thirteen, came into my bedroom where I was sleeping. She tapped me on
the forehead, waking me, and said, “ Oh, Mama, I’m frightened.” I asked
her what for, and she said, “Oh, see, Dada’s ship is wrecked. Dada has
come home all in rags, and his feet and legs are all cut, and one or two of
his men are drowned out of his boat.” I said, “ Nonsense, child,” and she
answered, “Oh yes, Mama, I have seen it quite true.” Then, of course, I
coaxed her to go oH to bed. But she kept it up from Thursday right on till
the following Sunday. On Sunday she asked me if there was any fear, and
if I believed in dreams. I told her, yes, to ,a certain extent I did. And
then she said her father would be too far away, and that it was on this coast
that she dreamed the ship was lost. I said, “ No, he would not be too far
away, but it is only nonsense, and you are trying to frighten me." That was
all, but the child never forgot it. A week after the dream, on the evening
that my husband returned, Lily came in from school and found me crying,
and she said, “ Oh, Mama, is the Ata-coma wrecked? ” At once she thought
of her dream and of her father. I told her than her father had come home,
and she said, "Are Dada’s legs cut, Mama?” I told her that they were,
and she, when she saw her father, said, “ You didn’t have these clothes on.
The clothes you had on were all torn when I dreamed about the shipwreck."
On the Thursday I had to keep her away from school on account of her being
so much upset by her dream. The poor little thing kept it up till Sunday at
dinner time, and nearly broke my heart. You know they say if a person
dreams of blood it means scandal, and I said, thinking of her father’s feet
being cut, “ Were they bleeding? ” and she turned away and cried.
While Mrs. Sprult was making this statement Captain Spruit was present,
but the child, Lily, was in another room. Mrs. Spruit went to fetch her
daughter, in order that I might get a direct statement about the dream.
While Mrs. Spruit was away on this errand, I asked Captain Spruit if he
had ever had any dreams of this kind. He replied in the negative, and added
that at one time he used to note down when he dreamed of anything, but
none of his dreams had ever come to anything. Once he dreamed that two
JuLY, 1899.] Case. 107
friends were dead. He wrote home to enquire about it, and found they
were still alive and well, so after that he gave up making notes of his
dreams.
At this stage Mrs. Spruit returned with her daughter, Lily Spruit. The
child was reluctant at ﬁrst to say anything, as she did not want anything
more about her dream to be made public; but after chatting for a few minutes,
she made the following statement :—
“ On the Wednesday night I dreamed it, and I went into Mother's room
on Thursday morning. I got a fright, and I woke up so quick and ran in to my
Mother. I thought I saw my Father get into a boat, and they got everything
into the boat that they could, and they kept close up to the ship, and after
wards it went down, and my Father was in the boat and the boy Allen, and
the boatswain, and two or three others I did not know, and one or two got
drowned, and my father came home all out about, and he had lost every
thing.” '
I asked her if she had seen the boat capsize.
“ I saw the boat go over," she replied, “ and I saw the boy Allen
drowned." '
“ Did you know the boy Allen ? ” I asked, and she said, “ No, but I know
from what my Father has said since that it was the boy Allen. I saw a boy
drowned, and now I take it to be the boy Allen.”
“ Did you see anything more in your dream ? ”
“ Yes, I saw them pulling my Father into the boat.”
“ Did the night seem dark ?”
“ Yes, it was quite dark. It was a stormy night, and the wind was
howling.”
“ Did you hear the wind in your dream ? ”
“ Yes, I heard it howling.”
“ Do you often dream ? Have you ever dreamed anything like this
before ?”
“ I have never dreamed anything like this before. I have only dreamed
that. I never dream.”
Mrs. Spruit interposed, “ I don’t think she is a child that ever dreams.”
I asked again about the boy Allen, and Mrs. Spruit said :—“ My daughter
was sure of one or two men having been drowned, but did not know who
they were. Now she puts one of them down as the boy Allen. I asked her
who were saved besides her Father, and she said she could not tell me.”
(Signed) DoNALD MURRAY.
We have read and revised the foregoing account taken down in short—
hand and written out by Mr. Murray, and we certify that it is a correct
report of our statements to him, and that our statements are true.
(Signed) CAPTAIN H. G. SPRUIT.
MRs. SPRvrT.
LILY SPRurT.
On the succeeding Monday I sent the following letter to Captain Spruit,
and a few days afterward received the subjoined reply :—
108 Jowmal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jung 1899.
Sydney, February 21st, 1898.
CAPTAIN SPRUlT,—.DEAR SIR,—I enclose a typewritten copy of the state
ments made to me by you and Mrs. and Miss Spruit. Would you and Mrs.
Spruit and your daughter kindly correct any inaccuracies and sign the
certiﬁcate at the end? . . . There are two or three points I forgot to
ask you about, so I would be obliged if in returning the statement you
would send me a brief note replying to the following enquiries :—
(1) Has your daughter ever been at sea for any length of time, so as to
have learned something about sea life?
(2) Was there any talk in your family before you sailed in the Atacama
about the vessel having been unseaworthy or leaky ?
(3) How many children have you, and is your daughter Lily the eldest ‘.1
If not, where does she come in ?
(4) Is she a favourite child ? Is she a special pet with you, so that there
would be a strong bond of sympathy between you ?
b (5?) Were your clothes all torn when you reached Sydney, or when in the
oat
(6) In the record from your notebook published in the Herald it says,
“ 6 p.m. Put the boats out and left the ship. At 7 p. m. sounded the well,
and found 12 ft. 6in. water.” Is there not some mistake here, or did some
one stay on board the ship to sound the well? Can you tell me what day
and time the boat capsized and the boy Allen was drowned ?—I am, yours
s1ncerely, DoNALD MURRAY.
Rozelle, Febm4ary 24th, 1898.
DoNALD MURRAY, Eso., SIR,—I herewith return you the statements about
the dream and found them correct. As for the other points you refer to :—
(1) My daughter has only made one trip to New Caledonia with me in
1890, when she was only six years old, but never since.
(2) There never was any mention made as to her unseaworthiness, but
perhaps quite the contrary, as I had every faith in her.
(3) I have ﬁve children, two older and two younger.
(4) Neither my wife or myself make any difference in our children, but
of the ﬁve children Lily is the most tender and affectionate, 11. e., she shows
it more than the others.
(5) No. My daughter's dream was perfectly corTect with the exception
of the torn clothes ; it was not torn, but had rust spots.
(6) We commenced putting the boats out at 6 p.m., mine ﬁrst, then the
cutter, 1st mate, then the 2nd mate boat. At about 7 p. m. I sounded the
Well and found 12 ft. 6 in. water in the ship, but it was 7.30 p.m. when we
all left the ship. laid to near the ship during the night and made sail at day
light, when nothing was to be seen of the ship. That was, say, 4.30 a.m.,
February 10th. The gale commenced on the 12th, 4 p.m., and the boat
capsized at 11.5 p.m. same night, as at that time my watch stopped, and the
boy Allen was lost.
Trusting you will be able to understand this explanation, I am, dear Sir,
respectfully yours, H. 0 SPRUIT_
In connection with this dream there are three main points which appear
to require discussion, namely,
1. Credibility of witnesses.
2. Odds against coincidence.
3. Time relations of the dream.
JuLY, 1899.] Case. 109'
First in importance is the credibility of the witnesses. On this point I
entertain no doubts. [Mr. Murray afterwards had reason to doubt the
reliability of Captain Spruit’s statements. See his letter of October 2nd,
1898, below.]
Assuming then that the account of the dream is substantially correct, the
next point requiring consideration is the probability of the dream having
been merely a coincidence. There are several circumstances which appear to
me to make this probability very small. If the dream had simply related
(1) to the wreck of the Atacama, or
(2) to the safe return of Captain Spruit, or
(3) to his feet and legs being out about, or
(4) to several of his men being drowned,
then coincidence might fairly be regarded as the true explanation. But
when we ﬁnd a complex agreement between the dream and the facts on at
least four main points, the odds against coincidence become so vast as to
justify us in looking for some other explanation. Let us assume that the
odds against simple coincidence between the dream and the fact in
the ﬁrst case were 100 to 1; in the second case 100,000 to 1 (the
odds against this event were enormous, say 10,000 to 1, and con
sequently the odds against the coincidence between the dream and the
event must have been still greater, say 10 times); in the third case
1,000 to 1; and in the fourth case 1,000 to 1. Then the odds against
the combined coincidence would be 100 billions [should be 10 billions]
to 1. It is to be noted that the odds against the events themselves were
comparatively small. Coal is a dangerous cargo, and the ship was so old
that she went to sea uninsured. Probably the odds were not more than
100 to 1 against her being lost, and the very fact of loss involved probable
injury and death to the captain and crew. The odds against the escape of
the captain have already been estimated at 10,000 to 1, so that the odds
against the whole chain of events were perhaps not more than a million to
one. Compare this with the odds of 100 billions to 1 against the dream
being a mere coincidence. It is true these odds are only guesswork, but they
serve to illustrate the contention that “complex coincidence” is not a
satisfactory explanation of the Atacama dream.
[The writer has, I think, considerably overestimated the odds
against the events and against the dream coinciding with them. It
is essential to note that the events were not independent of one
another, and therefore the improbability of their occurrence can not
be measured, as he has done, by multiplying together the improba
bilities of all the events taken separately. If the ship had not been
wrecked, the chance of the injuries to the captain and the drowning
of some of the crew might be, as Mr. Murray estimates, about 1
in 100 in each case. But after the shipwreck the chance of both
these events happening was, as he observes, very much greater, and
this is the contingency that has to be considered. There are, I
think, at the outside, only two events in the series suﬂiciently indepen
dent of one another for their improbabilities to be taken into account:
(1) the loss of the ship, the chance of which Mr. Murray thinks was
as much as l in 100, and (2) the escape of the captain after the
shipwreck, the chance of which he estimates as l in 10,000. Now,
the only possible way of estimating chances in such a case as this
is by empirical observation of actual facts, and the proportion of
survivors out of crews shipwrecked at about 400 miles from land is
110 Jouwmrl 0*‘ Society for Psychical Resea/rch. [Ju1.r,1s99.
certainly far more than 1 in 10,000. In this particular case, as far
as we can judge from the narrative, all the crew must have had, on
an average, about an equal chance of surviving, and, judging from
the results, that chance was about 1 in 4, since 4 men out of 17
survived. Of course we cannot really estimate the chances from a
single case like this, and there is no doubt that the men were in an
extremely dangerous position. But there Rre many situations in life
in which men encounter great dangers and yet escape from them. In
battles, for instance, only a small proportion of men are generally
killed. Thus, at the capture of Omdurman, on September 2nd, 1898,
after a battle which lasted practically all day, the total number of
persons killed on the Anglo-Egyptian side was about 43, and the
total killed and wounded (of the latter, of course, some died later)
were about 378, out of a force of 25,000 engaged on that side. The
percentage of total casualties was thus about 12*. The losses of
the Dervishes were, of course, far heavier. The chance of death under
many circumstances may appear great, because the danger is vividly
present to our imagination: but statistics show that the chance of
survival is generally far greater. Thus, it seems to me possible that
the chance of Captain Spruit’s escape was at least 1 in 4.—ED.]
It may be explained here that the storm encountered by Captain Spruit
and his men in the open boat—one of the heaviest storms for years—-did
great damage all over New South Wales and led to many shipwrecks on the
coast ; but it was before this storm commenced that the Atacama sprang a
leak and foundered, and there was on Wednesday, February 9th, nothing in
Sydney to indicate the approach of a hurricane. There was, therefore,
nothing in the appearance of the weather in Sydney when Lily Spruit went
to bed on Wednesday night to make her fear for her father's safety. Turn
ing up the weather forecasts in the Sydney Morning Hei'(lld, I ﬁnd that on
February 11th the oﬂicial forecast for the day gave no indication of heavy
weather beyond saying that the weather in New South \Vales would be
“ cloudy and unsettled.” On February 12th the forecast was “ generally un
settled throughout, with rain pretty general . . . sea moderate.” It was
not till Sunday, February 13th, that the wild storm set in. It will also be
seen from the newspaper extracts accompanying this account, that the storm
was a monsoonal disturbance from the north-west, and that consequently the
Atacama had foundered 400 miles to the east of Sydney three days before
the hurricane from the north-west had reached Sydney. From Captain
Spruit’s notebook it will be seen that when the Atacama foundered, the
weather was fresh, but not stormy.
In regard to the third main point, the strangest feature of the dream
appears to me to be the extraordinary way in which the time relations have
been jumbled up. The child, when telling her mother of the dream on
Thursday morning, spoke in the present tense, “Oh, see, Dada’s ship is
wrecked. Dada has come home, etc.” The dream took place. it would seem,
shortly before three o’clock in the morning on Thursday, February 10th.
The Atacama was abandoned at six p.m. on Wednesday, February 9th.
That was about nine hours before the dream began, and Captain Spruit
did not “come home” till February 17th. In other words, the little seer
apparently beheld in her brief dream vision the events, past and future,
* These numbers are only_n.pproximate, since the numbers given in different
reports of the battle varied considerably.
JuLY, \899.] Case. 1111
which in actual life extended over a whole week. Seemingly for the moment
she had reached that condition of existence. described by the Irish orator,
“ when time shall be no more and eternity shall have become a thing of the
past.” Mrs. Spruit in describing her daughter’s dream led me to under
stand that the child, when she came in to her mother at three o’clock on
~ Thursday morning, was confused and apparently still saw the vision, leading
her to speak in the present tense. Lily Spruit in her own account to me
naturally did not use the present tense, as it was then a week after the
dream. She said, “ I thought I saw my father get into a boat, and they got
everything into the boat that they could, and they kept close up to the ship
and afterwards it went down.” So far the dream can be accounted for by
telepathy over a distance of 400 miles. But the drowning of Allen and
subsequent events did not take place till after the dream was over. This
part of the dream may have been simply a surmise of the dreaming mind as
to what would happen as the result of the telepathically known events, a
surmise that by a rare chance turned out to be correct. Otherwise the
dream involves some fascinating metaphysical problems.
DoNALD MURRAY.
A few comments may be made on what Mr. Murray calls the
“strangest feature of the dream,”—the way in which it corresponded
with past, present, and future events. He remarks, indeed, that the
apparent perception of the future “may have been simply a surmise
of the dreaming mind as to what would happen as the result of the
telepathically known events”; but he seems to imply that we can
suppose this only by straining the notion of telepathy. VVe know,
however, that ideas originated by telepathy present themselves to the
mind generally in a sensory form; they appear like actual sights or
sounds, etc., which can only be distinguished by reﬂection and judgment
from the visual and auditory sensations derived from material objects.
It seems to follow almost inevitably that the mind should treat tele
pathic ideas as it does ordinary sensations, that is, use them as simple
rough material to be worked up into complex concepts. In the domain
of ordinary psychology, nothing is more familiar than the fact that
only a very small part of our perception of an object is derived directly
from what we see, hear, or feel of it ; by far the greater part is made
up of inference from our sensations and deduction from previous
knowledge of that and other objects, and the more complex the object,
the greater is the proportion of the percept due to inference. It seems
reasonable to suppose that a similar mental process goes on in the case
of e telepathic percept of an objective fact. Probably only a small
part of the percept is directly due to the object; the greater part is
manufactured by the mind of the percipient, and the manufactured
part probably increases with the complexity of the object.
If this be so, two results follow: (l) a certain amount of error may
often creep into the percept through incorrect inference and deduction
from what is correctly—telepathically—perceived ; that is, there may
be genuine telepathic action, in spite of even considerable incorrectness
in the details of the percept (for instance, the detail in Lily Spruit’s
dream that her father had “come home all in rags” was incorrect,
while the other details, as far as they went, corresponded with the
112 Journal of Society for 1’s;z/chlcal Research. [Jun. 1899.
facts); (2) a certain amount of correct detail may be added through
inference and deduction to the telepathic percept and thus give the
impression of a much more far-reaching action of telepathy than has
really occurred. A complex correspondence of a vision with reality is
not therefore necessarily; better evidence of telepathy than a single,
strongly-marked, and deﬁnite correspondence, such as, an apparition
seen at the time of death of the person represented.
In practice, it is, of course, exceedingly diﬂicult, if not impossible,
to distinguish between the objectively derived part of the percept and
the subsequent mental additions, even in the case of ordinary sensory
percepts. But it is clear that, when dealing with presumably telepathic
percepts, we ought to allow the widest possible margin for the part
played by inference and deduction. Such an allowance, however, does
not affect the force of the evidence for telepathy in the case of Lily
Spruit‘/s dream, so far as the central incidents of the dream are con
cerned; namely, the loss of the ship and her father’s escape. These
may be regarded as two separate incidents, because the idea of the loss
of the ship would naturally suggest that her father was drowned,
rather than that he escaped; whereas the other correct details of the
dream, as already observed, might easily have been inferred from the
idea of the wreck.
Mr. Murray states that there was a widespread impression in
Sydney, after the disaster had become known, that the Atacama
should not have been allowed to go to sea. One newspaper, the
Sydney Bulletin, was very outspoken on the subject, and, in con
sequence, was sued for libel by the owners of the vessel.
After studying all the evidence brought forward at the trial,
Mr. Murray wrote :—
October 2nd, 1898.
In order to complete the record of the Atacama case, I enclose the
Sydney Morning Herald report of the Atacama libel action. Brieﬂy it is to
be noted that the defendant newspaper, the Bulletin, won the case, and that
the evidence disclosed a shocking state of affairs in regard to the condition
in which ships are allowed to leave New South Wales _ports. The Atacama
was shown to have been a crazy old tub, “leaking like a lobster-pot,” worse
than Kipling’s Bolivar, and, as the defendant’s counsel put it, her seams
used to “open out like a concertina." Apparently Captain Spruit was
induced to risk his life in her in return for a bonus on his salary. After
reading the evidence, I cannot see how it was possible for Captain Spruit
not to have been aware of the unseaworthy condition of the Atacama.
Whether this knowledge was shared by his family is a matter that 1 cannot
regard as settled by Captain Spruit’s denial, and if Lily Spruit had any
anxiety about her father’s safety, the possibility of chance coincidence
between the dream and the wreck is slightly strengthened—in my opinion,
however, not to any serious extent. DoNALD MURRAY‘
The report of the trial sent by Mr. Murray fully bears out the
remarks in the above letter. The evidence tended to show that the
upper part and sides of the ship had been repaired properly, while the
bottom was left practically untouched, and the ship leaked a great
deal all the time she was being loaded with coal before she started.
No. OLXII.—Vox.. IX. Ocromm, 1899.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RESEARCH
CoNTENTS. PAGE
Messrs. Hansen and Lehmann on the Telepathic Problem .. .. . . .. . . . . 1I3
some Notes on self-Suggestion . . .. . . .. . . .. .. .. . . .. 120
Cases .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I22
MESSRS. HANSEN AND LEHMANN ON THE
TELEPATHIC PROBLEM.*
The following correspondence may interest or entertain some of
our readers.
Professor Titchener, of Cornell Uni"ersity, contributed to Science,
for December 23rd, 1898, a paper on “The Feeling of being Stared
at.” After explaining the popular belief that one may make a person
look round by staring at the back of his head, by the fact that many
persons are nervous when others are behind them, and, involuntarily
looking round at intervals to reassure themselves, meet our eyes if we
are making the experiment, he adds the following paragraph. The
rest of the correspondence explains itself.
In conclusion, I may state that I have tested this interpretation of the
“feeling of being stared at,” at various times, in series of laboratory
experiments conducted with persons who declared themselves either
peculiarly susceptible to the stare or peculiarly capable of “ making people
turn round.” As regards such capacity and susceptibility, the experiments
have invariably given a negative result; in other words, the interpre
tation offered has been conﬁrmed. If the scientiﬁc reader object
that this result might have been foreseen, and that the experiments were,
therefore, a waste of time, 1 can only reply that they seem to me to have
their justiﬁcation in the breaking down of a superstition which has deep and
widespread roots in the popular consciousness. No scientiﬁcally-minded
psychologist believes in telepathy. At the same time, the disproof of it in a
given case may start a student upon the straight scientiﬁc path, and the time
spent may thus be repaid to science a hundredfold. The brilliant work
of Lehmann and Hansen upon the telepathic “ problem” (Philos. Studien,
* Ueber unwillkiirliclzrs Fliistcrn; cine lcritische und experimcntelle Untcrsuchung
der sogcnanntm Geda,nkcnu'bertragimg. Von F. C. C. Hansen und A. Dehmann.
Wundt’s Philosophiache Studien. 1895, XL, 471.
114 Journal of Society for Psych/ical Research. [Oc'1‘., 1899.
1895, XI., 471) has probably done more for scientiﬁc psychology than could
have been accomplished by any aloofness, however authoritative.
E. B. TITCHENER.
Cornell University.
[From Science, December 30th, 1898.]
Professor Titchener in today’s Science assumes that Messrs. Lehmann and
Hansen have performed a work of deﬁnitive demolition in the well-meant
article of theirs to which he refers. If he will take the pains to read
Professor Sidgwick’s criticism of their results in the S.P.R. Proceedings,
Vol. XII., p. 298, as well as the note to my report of his paper in the
Psychological Review, Vol. IV., p. 654,* he will probably admit that, owing
to the fewness of the data which they collected, they entirely failed to prove
their point. This leaves the phenomena in dispute still hanging, and
awaiting a positive interpretation from other hands.
I think that an exploded document ought not to be left with the last
word, even for the sake of “ scientiﬁc psychology.” And I must incidentally
thank Professor Titchener for his admission that “aloofness, however
authoritative” (which phrase seems to be style noble for “ignorance of the
subject, and be d—d to it”), is an attitude which need not be invariably
maintained by the “Scientiﬁc,” even towards matters such as this. I only
wish that his admission were a little less apologetic in form.
WILLIAM JAMEs.
Cambridge, Mass., December 23rd, 1898.
* This note by Professor James is as follows :—
“ The Danish authors made only 500 experiments, obviously too small a number
for safe conclusions. The better to frame a critical opinion, I have myself collected a
series of upwards of 1,000 guesses at bi-digital numbers whispered with closed lips
by the agent. Following Lehmann’s method, and comparing the four most frequent
erroneous guesses at each digit of the numbers whispered with the four most fre
quent errors made in divining the same digits in the English thought-transference
series, I ﬁnd (taking the digits from 1 to 9) that 20 of the erroneous digits are
common to the two series. But I ﬁnd that if one compares the four least frequent
erroneous guesses in my whispered series with the most frequent corresponding ones
in the thought-transference series, one gets 15, no great difference. Taking the one
most frequent error of substitution for each digit in my series, I ﬁnd but 2 agree
ments with the thought-transference series, and 2 with the Sidgwick series of pure
guesses. Plotting the frequency of the various errors in the several series as curves
shows so great a discrepancy between my whispered series and the Danish one that
it becomes obvious that the series are too short to serve as proper terms of comparison
with the thought-transference series Moreover, the curves of my series and those
of the thought-transference series show at special points variations from each other
so great, when compared with the absolute ﬁgures which they represent, that the
same conclusion is again obvious. Both the agreements and the disagreements are
thus probably accidental. I myself agree, then, entirely with Professor Sidgwick
that Professor Lehmann has failed to prove his particular hypothesis of whispering
as the cause of the thought-transference results ; and I am pleased to notice that Mr.
Parish, in the work noticed below (Hallum'nations and Illusions, p. 320, note), also
considers Professor Sidgwick ‘perfectly justified in his contention.’ ”
001., 1899.] On the Telepathic Problem. 115
[From Science, January 6th, 1899.]
I can assure Professor James that I do not knowingly leave unread any
thing that he or Professor Sidgwick writes. I carefully considered the two
papers to which he refers, at the time of their appearance, and have recently
turned to them again. I am afraid, however, that I cannot make the
admission that Professor James expects. Even if I granted all the conten- '
tions of criticism and report, I should still see no reason to change the
wording of my reference to Lehmann and Hansen. But there is a great
deal that I cannot grant. While, like Stevenson’s Silver, “I wouldn’t set
no limits to what a virtuous character might consider argument,” I must
confess that, in the present instance, the grounds for such consideration have
not seldom escaped me. '
Professor James rules that the Phil. Studicn article is “ exploded.” I
have tried to take up the position of an impartial onlooker ; and, from that
position, I have seen Professor James and Professor Sidgwick and Herr
Parish handling the fuse, but I have not yet heard the detonation.
E. B. TITCHENER.
[From Science, May 5th, 1899.]
After recapitulating the early stages of the discussion, Professor
James writes, in reference to the ﬁnal sentence of the above letter :—
As the explosion was so audible to me, the disproof being quasi-mathe
matical, I was astounded at this hardness of hearing in my colleague; and,
to make sure that I was not a victim of auditory hallucination, I wrote to
Professor Lehmann to know what he himself thought of his conclusions, in
the light of the criticisms in question. His answer, somewhat belated, just
arrives.*
He says :—“ Your own as well as Professor Sidgwick’s experiments and
computations prove, beyond a doubt, that the play of chance had thrown
* Professor Lehmann writes to Professor James :—
“ Kopenhagen, d. 5/4, 1899.
. Sowohl die Ihrigen als Professor Sidgwick’s Experimente und
Berechnungen zeigen unzweifelhaft, dass der Zufall mir ein fiir meine Theorie gar zu
giinstiges Resultat in die Hiinde gespielt hat, und dass die Theorie folglich nicht
bewiesen ist. Ausserdem geht aus den Berechnungen Professor Sidgwick’s hervor
dass die Zahlen-Gewohnheit (number-habit) eine wichtige Rolle spielt. Ob diese
beide Faktoren die Sache erkliiren kiinnen, wird sich wohl schliesslich, durch fort
gesetzte Versuche, herausstellen. Als vorléiuﬁge Hypothese wird das unwillkiirliches
Fliistern in Verbindung mit der Zahlen-Gewohnheit unzweifelhaft geniigen ; meines
Erachtens liegt jedenfalls im Augenhlick keine Veranlassung vor, ausserdem okkulte
Kritfte anzunehmen. Professor Sidgwick sagt es zwar nicht, man sieht es aber
lcicht aus seiner Abhandlung, dass er sehr geneigt ist, an mystische Ursachen zu
glauben. Ich be-dauere sehr, ihm hier nicht folgen zu kiinnen.
“Selbstverstandlieh steht es Ihnen ganz frei, wenn Sie es wiinschen, diese
Erkliirung zu veriiffentlichen. .
n
“ ALFR. LEHMANN.”
116 Journal of Society_f0r Psyclmlcal Research. [OcT.,1S99.
into my hands a result distinctly too favourable to my theory, and that the
said theory is consequently not yet established (beun'esen).”
This is identically Professor Sidgwick’s and my contention ; and for his
candour, as well as for his willingness to take pains to experiment in
this region, Professor Lehmann deserves to stand high as a “psychical
researcher.”
Professor Titchener, meanwhile, still hugging the exploded document,
wanders upon what he calls “the straight scientiﬁc path,” having it
apparently all to himself. May the consciousness of his ﬁdelity to correct
scientist principles console him in some degree both for his deafness and for
his isolation.
- WILLIAM JAums.
[From Science, May 12th, 1899.]
It is evident that Professor James and I have been writing at cross
purposes. On the point that Lehmann has not “established” his explanation
of the Sidgwick results I am heartily at one with James, Sidgwick, Parish and
Lehmann himself. But Professor James need not have awaited the return
mail from Copenhagen to wrest this admission either from Lehmann or from
me. Lehmann wrote in his original paper: “Ein exacter Beweis hierfiir
(i.e., for his explanation) kann wohl im Augenblicke nicht gefiihrt werden.”
Nor, I take it, in any future Augenblick.
On the other hand, I have never regarded this point as the point at issue.
Lehmann set out to examine telepathy at large. He chose the Sidgwick
experiments simply as typical series, considering the authors’ names a
guarantee ofserious intent and careful work. In his inquiry he laid hold of
a condition which had never been thoroughly investigated before, and traced
its effects in experiments that were both ingeniously devised and rigidly
controlled ; no one can neglect the unconscious whisper in future telepathic
work. His paper is a model of scientiﬁc method ; he has shown us how
borderland questions are to be attacked, and proved that the “ ordinary
channels of sense” have unexplored resources. His suggestions will be
fruitful, for the next stage of advance must be an exhaustive study of the
“ number-habits” which Sidgwick at ﬁrst rejected, but now makes the
headstone of the corner. Even granting all the contentions of the critics,
therefore, I should assert that Lehmann’s work is brilliant, and that it has
done signal service to scientiﬁc psychology. But, as I hinted before, I do
not know that quasi-mathematics has contributed much to psychology in any
ﬁeld of research.
I conclude with a word on the logic of Professor James’ objection. A
theory is pronounced which, from the outset, lays claim to probability and to
probability only. “Exact proof” is acknowledged to be impossible. Criticism
plays upon the theory, and the author again acknowledges that his hypothesis
is not proven. Professor James, apparently forgetting the ﬁrst acknowledg
ment, afﬁrms that the criticism has “ exploded ”- the theory ! What is not
proven is, co ipso, exploded ! Is Professor James, then, ready to grant that
his recent book on ‘ ‘Human Immortality”——something which assuredly is not
OcT.,1899.] On the Telepathic Problem. 117
yet proven—is an “exploded document” ? If the alternatives before me are
scientiﬁc isolation and companionship on these logical terms, I prefer the
lso1at1on- E. B. TITCHENER.
[There seems here some slight confusion in the use of the terms,
“proof” and “probability.” Professor Titchener ﬁrst introduces
Professor Lehmann’s paper as an example of scientiﬁc “disproof ” of
telepathy in a given case ; then, when Professor Lehmann admits his
own failure as regards the Sidgwick case, Professor Titchener claims
that there was no failure, since Professor Lehmann never pretended to
“establish” his explanation, but only to make it probable. But
what Professor Lehmann admits in his candid letter is that Professors
Sidgwick’s and James's criticisms show that he had not proved his
explanation to be even probable. The utmost that his experiments
could do—and, of course, the utmost that he claimed for them—was
to establish a presumption in favour of the view that a certain
condition was the eﬂicient cause of certain results. Such a
presumption could only be established by showing that the results
concurred with the condition more often than they would be likely to
do by chance. Professor Sidgwick proved that the concurrence was
not too frequent to be attributed to chance, and thus showed that the
authors had failed to establish the presumption aimed at.--EI).]
[From Science, May 26th, 1899.]
Why Professor Titchener should have taken an essay which he now
admits to have completely failed even to make probable its point, as an
example of the “brilliant work” which “scientiﬁc psychology" can do in
the way of destroying the telepathic superstition, may be left to be
fathomed by readers with more understanding of the ways of “Science”
than I possess.
Meanwhile, as one interested in mere accuracy, I must protest against
two impressions which Professor Titchener, in your number of May 12th,
seeks to leave upon the reader’s mind.
The ﬁrst is that whispering was ﬁrst considered by Professor Lehmann.
It has been elaborately discussed in the S.P.R. Proceedings over and over
again. Sidgwick’s six-page discussion of it in the report of his own experi
ments is the basis of comparison used by Lehmann in his ampler but
abortive investigation.
The second of Professor Titchener’s implications is that it was Lehmann
who introduced number-habits, and even forced the admission of them on
the recalcitrant Sidgwick. Lehmann makes no mention of number-habits.
Sidgwick himself introduces them, to account, not for the thought-transference
results, but for the many errors common to the guesses of his subjects and
Lehmann’s :—the two perhaps had the same number-habit. Does Professor
Titchener seriously think thata number-habit in a guesser can account for
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oc'r.,1899.
the amount of coincidence between the numbers which he guesses and those
upon counters drawn at random out of a bag?
Even in anti-telepathic Science accuracy of representation is required,
and I am pleading not for telepathy, but only for accuracy.
WILLIAM JAMEs.
[From Science, June 2nd, 1899.]
When a scientiﬁc discussion degenerates into protest and imputation of
motive, it is probably time for the discussion to stop. But I wish to state,
in self-defence, that I do not “ seek to leave upon the reader's mind” the
two impressions to which Professor James refers. I do not say that
Lehmann ﬁrst considered whispering ; I say that he was the ﬁrst thoroughly
to investigate it. There is a difference. I do not imply that Lehmann intro
duced number-habits ; I say that the next step in advance beyond him is an
exhaustive study of number-habits. Again there is a difference.
E. B. TITCHENER.
It is true that, as Professor Titchener admits, Professor Lehmann
did not introduce number-habits to explain the successful results of the
S.P.R. experiments in thought-transference. Not only so, but he did
not even mention them in his original pamphlet. In his letter to Pro
fessor James, however (see above, p. 115, foot-note), he maintains, “as
a provisional hypothesis, that involuntary whispering, combined with
number-habits, would undoubtedly suﬂice” to explain the successes.
This remark suggests that he is under some misapprehension as to
What can and what cannot be achieved by number-habits—a mis
apprehension from which there is no clear evidence that Professor
Titchener himself is free. It may therefore be worth while to give
here a brief general review of the subject.*
It has long been recognised by psychologists that most—if not
all—persons have unconscious preferences for certain objects or ideas
over others of the same class; so that, if one is told to guess or to
think of, say, a colour, a playing-card, or a number;——certain colours,
cards, or numbers occur to the mind more frequently than others, and
are therefore guessed more often. These idiosyncrasies are called
* For examples of the experimental study of number-habits, we may refer our
readers to the two articles on their experiments in thought-transference by Professor
and Mrs. Sidgwick in the Proceedings S.P.R. In Vol. VI., p. 170, a complete
analysis from this point of view of all the numbers included in their experiments is
given, and in Vol. VIII., p. 548, the number-habits of their most successful
percipient are fully described. In Vol. XII., pp. 303-4, Professor Sidgwick returns
to the subject in his discussion of the work of Messrs. Hansen and Lehmann. See
also a review of Dr. Dessoir’s Das Doppcl-Ich, by Mir. F. \V. H. Myers, in Vol. VI.,
p. 209.
OcT.,1899.] On the Telepathic Problem. 119
“mental habits,” or,—if we are referring to numbers only,—“number
habits.” It is hardly ever possible to account for them, that is, to
trace the origin of any particular preference ; it would seem as if the
individual acquired them entirely at random. Not only so, but they
may vary in the same person at different times, while different persons
may exhibit the same preferences.
Now, supposing that two persons are trying experiments in the
thought-transference of numbers, the same numbers may happen to be
the favourites of both agent and percipient. If, then, the agent
selects numbers to think of, some successful guesses may be made
which are due—not to thought-transference, but to similarity in the
number-habits of the two experimenters.
This source of error, however, may be absolutely excluded if the
numbers to be guessed are not selected voluntarily by the agent, but
drawn at random from a batch of numbers. As early as 1886, there
fore (see Phanlasms of the Living, Vol. I., pp. 31—35, and Vol. II.,
p. 653), experimenters who worked in connection with the Society for
Psychical Research were accustomed to use the method of drawing
numbers at random, and it is hardly necessary to say that all the
number-guessing in the experiments of Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick
was carried out on this plan.
On the other hand, supposing again that the agent selects the
numbers and that his number-habits are markedly dissimilar from
those of the percipient, then the successes would probably be decidedly
fewer than they would be if due to chance alone.
Now, conﬁning ourselves to cases where the numbers to be guessed
are drawn at random, it is clear that the existence of any decided
number-habit does not affect in any way the probability of guessing
right by chance. since the number drawn at any moment is neither
more nor less likely to be one of the percipient/s favourites than to be
any other number. On the average, therefore, the number of accidental
successes would be the same, whether a number-habit existed or not.
A decided number-habit may, however, affect prejudicially the
number of successes produced by telepathy (assuming, for the sake of
the argument, that successes may sometimes be due to telepathy),
because the idea of the favourite number, constantly obtruding itself
into the mind, would tend to obscure or replace the impressions
derived telepathically ; just as, when a material object is perceived in
the ordinary way through the senses, a preconceived idea as to What
the object is may often make us perceive it wrongly.
Thus, in experiments of the kind under consideration, there is
only one case in which the existence of numberhabits can increase
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT.,1B99.
the successes and so make the evidence for telepathy in that case
appear stronger than it really is ; namely, the case in which (1) the
agent selects the numbers to be guessed and at the same time (2) his
number-habits are similar to those of the percipient. In all other
cases, number-habits would decrease those successes which are due to
any other agency than chance.
SOME NOTES ON SELF-SUGGESTION.
The following observations on the eﬂicacy of self-suggestion of
various kinds have been sent to us by an Associate of the American
Branch of the S.P.R., Mr. Thomas Fillebrown, M.D., D.M.D.,
Professor of Operative Dentistry and Oral Surgery at Harvard
University.
The ﬁrst case illustrates the inﬂuence of widespread popular
beliefs even over the minds of those whose education would probably
lead them to reject the beliefs, if deliberately considered. Thus, it has
been, and is still, commonly held that curative effects which seem
dependent on the personality of the healer must involve some
special expenditure of energy on his part—some “virtue going out of
him ”—and in accordance with this view, numerous hypnotists have
recorded sensations of exhaustion, discomfort, or even pain felt after
making efforts to inﬂuence their patients or subjects. It is probable,
however, that any sensation felt on making the ﬁrst successful attempt
to hypnotise is due to some chance suggestion, and that by association
of ideas the same sensation reappears in connection with future
attempts, and so tends to become stereotyped.
Nevertheless, far too little is known at present of the real method of
operation of the hypnotic inﬂuence for us to be able to state dogmati
cally that there is no deﬁnite correlation between the physical condition
of the operator and the effect produced on the subject. But there is
abundant evidence to show that sensations felt by the hypnotist, if
not wholly due to self-suggestion, may at least be greatly increased or
diminished by it. Thus Dr. Fillebrown found that the discomfort he
experienced could be to a great extent controlled by his will, and was
entirely removed by the assistance of suggestion from a friend. He
writes :
(I) For some ten years I have used suggestion as a means of obtunding
sensitiveness of tissue, alleviating pain, and establishing healthy action in
the human system.
At ﬁrst I thought it necessary to induce hypnosis in all cases. When I
commenced I had never seen a person hypnotised. I studied the subject
O(71‘.,1899.] Some Notes on Self-Suggestion. 121
from various authors, principally Bernheim, applied the methods described,
and succeeded at my ﬁrst effort, and uniformly since. My desire to succeed
amounted to anxiety, hence I made every effort to do all I could, and, as it
proved, I quite overdid the matter. I soon began to feel when hypnotising
a distinct pressure in the region of the medulla: at one sitting with a
patient I experienced a severe pain in the same locality, as though some
thing was strained. For some time I could not hypnotise without suffering
agood deal. I soon learned to control my effort, and stop as soon as I
experienced discomfort; and I succeeded with the hypnosis just as well.
Later, Professor F. H. Gerrish applied to me the remedy of suggestion
twice, and cured me entirely.
My subsequent experience has been that when I exercise suggestion the
most effectively, the sensation in the medulla is the most pronounced. It
is always distinct, but not painful. It feels like normal action. The sensa
tion I now have is as though I let something go to work ; and I can watch
its action meanwhile. I have found, too, that the apparent amount of
action depends somewhat upon the receptiveness of the patient; the more
receptive the patient, the more active my own organic centres.
Dr. Fillebrown next describes his power of entering at will into a
state of quiescence, preparatory to going to sleep at night, during
which he experiences what are known as “ hypnagogic hallucinations.”
Like most persons who have these experiences, he ﬁnds that the
images seen appear to arise spontaneously—as ordinary dreams do—
without any effort of will on his part.
(2) Within the past few years I have acquired the art of voluntary
repose, especially as a preparation for sleep at night. Latterly I have
been much interested and entertained by experiences similar to those
described in crystal gazing. As I nearly approach the condition of ordinary
sleep, I realise that I have given up all voluntary control over the action of
my mind, and am able with my mental vision to see a panorama passing
before me: birds, animals, human faces and forms, and landscapes, some
grotesque, others beautiful. This does not seem to be the imagination at
all, but entirely outside of my mental action. The pictures gradually fade
away, as I pass into the state of profound sleep.
Dr. Fillebrown’s last note affords another instance of the eﬂicacy
of popular beliefs as an aid to self-suggestion. Our readers will
remember Mr. Coghill’s interesting account in the July Journal S.P.R.
of other more recent cases of the cure of warts by suggestion.
(3) Some ﬁfty years ago, when I was a lad about twelve or thirteen years
old, a score or two of warts appeared upon my hands, some of them very
large, and continued there for a long time—a year or more, as I remember.
Actuated by boyish curiosity, I stole a piece of fresh meat from the carcass
o a lamb, killed and dressed that day, and rubbed it over my hands, taking
pains to touch every wart. I buried the meat, and, in about the time it
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [00~r., 1899.
would take for the meat to decay, the warts disappeared completely from
my hands, and none have appeared since.
In connection with this last note, we may quote a case of a similar
cure experienced by Mr. Charles Boyd Robertson (son of the late
Rev. F. W. Robertson, of Brighton) at the age of about seven or
eight. The account was sent to us by an Associate of the Society,
Miss Frances M. Charlton, having been obtained by her from Mr
Robertson’s daughter, who writes :—
38, Onslow Square, June 27th, 1899.
DEAR MIss CHARLToN,—My father has been very poorly and conﬁned to
his room for some time, so he has asked me to answer your letter.
He says that the account you give of his “ warty” experiences is quite
exact, and he has really very little to add. He was about 7 or 8 at the time
of the incident and was staying in the country, near Brighton. The woman
was a wandering fortune-teller and, as far as his memory serves him, the
tree from which she cut the stick was either a hazel or an elder. He
believes she did not touch him with it, but only waved it over his hands,
which were at the time covered with warts, the growth of some months.
They disappeared in a few days.
G. RoRmvTsoN.
CASES.
Among the information collected for the Census of Hallucinations
of which a Report was published in the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. X.,
there were indications that a tendency to externalise ideas in the
form of hallucinations—visual or auditory, or both—occasionally runs
in families, or is to a certain extent hereditary (op. cit. pp. 154459).
It was further suggested in that Report (p. 338, foot-note) that
“haunted houses ” may sometimes owe their reputation to a family
tendency of this kind, since it is often found that when apparitions
are seen more than once in “ haunted houses,” the seers are members
of the same family.
The narratives that follow seem to exemplify this family tendency
or faculty. It will be noticed that while some of the hallucinations
described show no traces of any but a subjective origin, others—
especially the apparition of Miss D., seen collectively by three
members of the family—appear to be veridical.
The accounts ﬁrst given were sent by Mr. Elliott O’Donnell, of
Henley House School, Mortimerroad, Kilburn, N.W. (now an Associate
of the Society), in a letter dated January 13th, 1899.
OcT., 1899.] Cases. 123
G. 262. Auditory. (1')
Incidents relative to death of my father, the Rev. .Henry O’D0nnell, M.A.,
at one time Rector of Upton Modsbury, W. Worcester, and Chaplain to
the late Lord Kingsdown.
My father, who was the direct descendant (pedigree in hands of my
brother, Captain Henry O'Donnell, Royal Staff College) of Red Hugh, left
England at the commencement of 1873 in company with the Rev. X., an
old friend of his. Their destination was to be Jerusalem, a visit long
cherished by my father, but, unfortunately, he fell in with a man [here]
designated by the name Colonel Y., afterwards proved to be a member of
the Weymouth swindling gang. Persuaded by this individual to alter his
course, he accompanied him to Massowah, leaving the Rev. X. to go on by
himself.
On April 3rd my father went hunting, leaving the little village of Achibo
in the company of several natives and—so we believe—his white comrade,
Colonel Y. The exact manner of his death has never been ascertained,
but it was suggested by various inhabitants of Massowah that he was
murdered.
Now for the ghostly part of the narrative.
My father, shortly before leaving England, was heard by one Fanny
Coldwell, then and now cook in our house, to say that if anything happened
to him on his travels, he would let my mother know. My mother, being a
nervous and superstitious lady, begged him not to say such things, where
upon he 1eplied that he would not appear to her, but would make a horrible
noise in the house ; this he said laughingly. From the time of his death to
the end of the following May, every night at twelve o’clock, a terrible dis
turbance took place in the hall, sounds as if the furniture was being thrown
about being distinctly heard, together with a tramping upstairs. Moreover,
the reﬂection as of a lighted candle was seen under the crack of the nursery
door, which, although bolted, was thrown violently open, and to the
horriﬁed inmates some one (whose voice they recognised as that of my father)
was heard jabbering incoherently.
At the end of January, 1881, my mother died. On the night of the
burial, at about twelve o’clock, the servants distinctly heard some one (whose
step they recognised as hers) walk round and round the middle landing,
pausing outside each door, especially the one within which I lay coughing.
Then they heard her open the room door where her body had lain, and
which was locked, the key being departed elsewhere, and close it with a
loud bang, relocking it.
A few days later the cook, upon running upstairs for something, saw my
mother looking down at her from the landing above. Scared by the
apparition, she turned and hurried back to the kitchen.
These incidents I can vouchsafe as absolutely true, without the slightest
blemish of exaggerat1on.
ELLIoTT O’DoNNELL.
124‘ Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oc1‘.,1899.
P.S.—The names of the cook and parlourmaid who heard the noises at
the time of my father’s and mother’s deaths are written below.
. F. CoLDWELL.
(Slgned) {S. CoLDWELL.
In the letter enclosing the above account, Mr. O’Donnell
writes :—
My mother, long after my father’s death, used to cry out in the night
and say she heard pistol shots in her bedroom, accompanied by my father’s
voice. Our servants, whose names are appended to the MS., recollect all
this very well, and were terriﬁed times without number at the strange noises
heard. . . . My grandfather, Elliott O’Donnell, M.D., of Limerick,
had, I believe, many psychical experiences.
In reply to inquiries, Mr. O’Donnell says :—
- July 31st, 1899.
The date of my father’s death was April 2nd, 1873. He was reported to
have died of sunstroke, his death occurring at Achibo, a village two hours’
distance (walking) from Massowah.
The only announcement of his death was made by Col. Y., who after
wards vanished, and with him the possessions of my father went also.
The date of my father’s death was known prior to the noises being heard.
Rumours of his being murdered had been received by my mother from
interested strangers in Massowah. The man with whom he and Col. Y.
stayed (an old friend of Col. Y. ’s) had been suspected of a long career of
murder and robbery. (Reference to my father's death may be seen in “The
Oriental Zigzag,” a work on Africa, by Charles Hamilton. . . The
noises then commenced about May, ’73, and lasted till July, ’73. As the
house was barred and bolted every night (my mother being an extremely
nervous woman and our house being lonely) no one could have got in from
the outside. Furthermore, all the bedrooms were occupied. so that no one
could have been concealed there.
(II.)
Mr. O’Donnell gives the following account of hallucinations
experienced by himself :—
One evening, whilstI was in bed, it being about seven o’clock, and a
candle still burning on the dressing table, I was amazed to see a strange
looking man enter. Between the door and my bed was another bed, the
valance of which was up. Being but a child, I was too curious to know who
he was to be really frightened, for although he was ugly and covered
with spots (a feature I distinctly remember), I merely regarded him in the
light ofa visitor who had come to amuse me. For several moments he peeped
at me from above and under the bed I have mentioned, accompanying each
action with a grimace of increasing ferocity that at length frightened me so
that I screamed and hid my face under the bedclothes, and when next I
looked up he had gone ; nor did I ever see him again.
001-., 1899.] Cases. 125
One afternoon in the spring of 1896, as I was riding along the main road
from Wheedon to Daventry, I became aware of the presence of a cyclist in
grey who rode slowly ahead of me. The curious part of it was that a
second before I had looked round, and the road, a very long and level one,
had been absolutely void of life. Now here was some one who had sprung
suddenly and noiselessly to life. For some distance we continued our
course, until we came up to a large cart which was rattling along in the
centre of the thoroughfare, the driver blissfully careless of any one else’s
welfare save his own.
To my horror my mysterious companion ran with great force right into
the back of the cart and disappeared. Not a vestige of either him or his
machine was to be seen, and I rode on wondering whether I had been
dreaming.
ELLIoTT O’DoNNELL.
(III.)
L. 1 ll4.—Collective Apparition.
In August, 1885, I was staying with my relations at a lodging house in
Newquay, Cornwall. One afternoon I was standing on the staircase, when
I saw a friend of ours, whom I will call Miss D., who was staying with us,
come down the stairs followed by my two sisters. She disappeared into the
sitting-room at the foot of the staircase, shutting the door with a bang.
Each of us saw her, and all heard the door bang. As a matter of fact, she
had never entered that room nor been near it at the time, but subsequently
appeared in a totally [different] part of the house.
We feared this appearance was an augury of ill, but happily nothing
followed to conﬁrm our anticipations.
ELLIoTT O’DoNNsLL.
HELENA O’DoNNELL.
With regard to the apparition of Miss D., Mr. O’Donnell adds in
another letter: “Her dress brushed over my feet as she went down
the stairs and was as material as any clothes of my own.”
The other witnesses in this case give the following accounts of it,
enclosed in a letter dated July 31st, 1899 :—
One day, while stopping at Newquay some years ago, I followed a friend
we had stopping with us downstairs to the little sitting-room in front of the
house. My friend was in front of us, and my brother and sister came down
the stairs at the same time. To our surprise Miss D. walked into the
sitting-room and banged the door in my face. It was such a curious thing
for her to do that we all waited outside the room, not liking to go in. She
had a cousin staying in the place, and we thought that perhaps he was in
the room and she might want a few moments’ private conversation with him.
After waiting some time and not hearing the sound of voices, one of us
opened the door and saw that the room was empty. As we all distinctly saw
and heard her, we were intensely surprised. Miss D. told us after that she
had not been in or near the room at that time.
PETRoNELLA O’DoNNELL.
126 J0-umal of Society for 1’sycIuIcat Reseu/rch. [OcT.,1899.
One summer, I think in 1885, when I was staying at Newquay in
Cornwall, the following incident occurred.
One afternoon, we, that is to say, my sister, my brother, and myself,
were standing on the landing preparing to go downstairs, when we saw our
friend Miss D. go down in front of us. We all followed her and saw her go
into the sitting-room and heard the door bang loudly after her. We waited
in the hall for her for some minutes, thinking she would come and join us, as
we were going out for a walk ; then at last we went into the room and found
she was not there at all and had never gone there. H‘ 0,DoNNELL_
In answer to questions as to whether a real person could have got
away unseen from the room which the apparition was seen to enter,
Mr. O’Donnell writes :—
The window of the room in which Miss D. disappeared was shut when
my sister entered. It could not have been shut without our hearing it, nor
done before my sister had entered the room.
Outside the window was a small garden, void of any place to conceal one
self ; beyond that a straight road skirted by a high hedge. No man could
have escaped notice with such obvious disadvantages,—let alone a woman.
We thoroughly examined the bare track outside, as well as the premises
inside, and were convinced that Miss D. had never been there materially.
She was a woman with no sense of humour, and one incapable of a silly
trick of vanishing, had such a feat been possible.
(IV.)
The following accounts of other hallucinatory experiences are given
by the Misses O’Donnell :
It was in the morning of a day in the spring of 1875* that I saw the
head, which was afterwards seen by another member of our family. I had
been sent out of the room for some one, and as I looked up to call them, I
saw the most terrible head looking over the bannisters at me. It was the
face of a man, but the hair was long like a woman’s. The parchment-like
skin was drawn closely over the face and gave a skull-like look to it. The
mouth, full of great teeth, was twisted in a horrid leer ; but what frightened
me most was the expression of the eyes. They were so very light and full
of the most wicked cruelty, as if they existed for the sole purpose of trying
to terrify a little child like I was then. That was the impression the horrid
thing gave me as I stood staring at it—that it knew it was frightening me
nearly to death, and that it was hugging itself with joy at the thought;
and, moreover, that that was why it was there, and that it was allowed to
do this wicked deed for some purpose. I had a great feeling of indignation
in my heart, as I stood, for what seemed ages to me, looking at it, for I could
* The writer stated later that the date when she saw the head was 1873, not 1875,
and adds: “There was a death in the family, though I did not hear of it till some
time after.”
()CT., 1899.] Cases. 127
not draw my eyes away. Then I went quietly back to the room I had come
from, and, being proud and sensitive, never told any one a word about it for
many years, when I found that my sister had seen it too, but some years
after. I said at the time that I thought some one was upstairs, and per
suaded a servant to go and look, which she did. She thought I had heard
a noise and been frightened by it : of course, she found no one there.
PETRoNELLA O’DoNNELL.
January 12th, 1899.
One evening, about nine o’clock, in the late autumn of 1880, as I was
running upstairs, I paused at the foot of the top ﬂight and looked up, prior
to calling to my sister, who, I thought, was in her bedroom. To my horror
I saw in the darkness, leaning over the bannisters skirting the landing above
me, a head silhouetted against a window. It was a most sinister head, with a
covering of shaggy hair. I particularly noticed the eyes, which were very
light and evil, also the mouth, which was distorted with a leer which seemed
to me the essence of malignity. It was looking wickedly at me, but I did not
wait whether it would speak, for I was so frightened that I turned on my
heels and ran away. Shortly afterwards a death occurred in our family.
HELENA O’DoNNELL.
From MR. GEoRGE R. SIMs.
L. 1115. Dream.
Mr. Sims writes to Mr. Myers :—
12, Clarence Terrace, Regent’s Park, N.W., March 23rd, 1899.
DEAR MR. MYERs, —Here is the exact dream. I dreamt that my sister had
come to me and told me that my father had died under tragic circumstances.
I said to my housekeeper, “ I have had a horrid dream," and told her
the circumstances. She gave me my cup of tea, left the morning papers
with me and went downstairs. She was on the point of telling the parlour
maid the dream when she saw my sister pass the window. She exclaimed,
" Good gracious, there is Miss Sims ! ” and when she went to the door and
saw my sister in tears, she feared the worst had happened.
My sister then came up into my room and told me that my brother-in-law
had died under rather tragic circumstances during the night. His wife had
woke up in the early morning and found him dead by her side.
I don’t remember having had any other dream realised so vividly.
Faithfully yours, GEo_ R_ SIMs_
Mr. Sims’ housekeeper gives her recollection of what occurred,
as follows :—
12, Clarence Terrace, Regent's Park, N.W., March 23rd, 1899.
Mr. Sims told me, about nine o’clock on the morning of the 16th, of
his dream that a relative had died suddenly during the night, and that
his sister, Miss Sims, had come round in the morning to tell him what
had happened.
128 Journal of Society for Psjz/ch.ical Resewrch. [0cr.. 1899.
Shortly afterwards, about 9.20, I went downstairs, and was just beginning
to tell the parlourmaid of the dream when I saw Miss Sims pass the dining
room window.
Seeing her at this unusual hour, and my mind being full of Mr. Sims’
dream, which I was about to repeat, gave me quite a shock, and when I
opened the door, I at once saw by her face that she was the bearer of bad
news.
I took her upstairs, and both the manner in which she told Mr. Sims the
news at his bedside, and the time by the clock, absolutely agreed with the
details he had told me half-an-hour before. M‘ BULLEY.
L. 1116. Dream.
From LoRD RoBERTs’ Forty-one Years in India (published in 1897),
V01. 1., p. 30.
My father [General Sir Abraham Roberts, G.C.B.] . . . was then
close on seventy, and though apparently active as ever, he was far from
well, consequently the doctors strongly urged him not to risk another hot
weather in India. It was accordingly settled that he should return to
England without delay.
Shortly before his departure, an incident occurred which I will relate for
the beneﬁt of psychological students ; they may, perhaps, be able to explain
it, I never could. My father had some time before issued invitations to a
dance, which was to take place in two days’ time —on Monday, October 17th,
1853. On the Saturday morning he appeared disturbed and unhappy, and
during breakfast he was silent and despondent—very different from his
usual bright and cheery self. On my questioning him as to the cause, he
told me he had had an unpleasant dream—one which he had dreamt several
times before, and which had always been followed by the death of a near
relation. As the day advanced, in spite of my efforts to cheer him, he
became more and more depressed, and even said he should like to put off
the dance. I dissuaded him from taking this step for the time being ; but
that night he had the same dream again, and the next morning he insisted
on the dance being postponed. It seemed to me rather absurd to have to
disappoint our friends because of a dream ; there was, however, nothing for
it but to carry out my father’s wishes, and intimation was accordingly sent
to the invited guests. The following morning the post brought news of the
sudden death of the half-sister at Lahore, with whom I had stayed on my
way to Peshawar.
The date of death is not given, but Lord Roberts says in another
part of the book that the mail-carts along the Grand Trunk Road
from Calcutta to Peshawar—then in course of construction through
the Punjab—often travelled at the rate of 12 miles an hour, including
stoppages. The distance from Lahore to Peshawar as the crow ﬂies is
about 230 miles. It is probable, therefore, that the death took place
at about the same time as the dream.
No. OLXIII.—VoL. IX. NovEMBER, 1899.
JOURNAL
oF THE
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I29
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I30
Professor Hyslop on Mrs. Piper . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . . I31
Cases .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I34
An Incorrect version of a case of Supposed “spirit Photography ” . . .. .. .. I38
Correspondence :—
AFalseAlarm .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I43
A Note on self-suggestion . . .. .. . . .. .. . . .. .. . . 144
ACorrection .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I44
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of lllembers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
HONORARY ASSOCIATES.
HYsLoP, PRoFEssoR J. H., Columbia University, NewYork,N.Y.,U.S.A.
REIFsNIDER, MRs. C. K., Hotel Brunswick, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
WAKE, C. STANILAND, The Rosalie, 248, 57th-street, Chicago, Ill.,U.S.A.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
BARUCH, EDGAR, 2,144, University-avenue, Berkeley, Cal., U.S.A.
BRoWN, MIss MAY, 37, Evelyn-mansions, Westminster, S.W.
Church, Mrs., Hinton House, Byﬁeld R.S.O., Northamptonshire.
DoNNE, MRs., c/o Messrs. Holt dz Co., 3, \Vhitehall-place, London, S.W.
JEHU, THoMAs J., M.B., B.A., St. John’s College, Cambridge.
MARKLE, GEoRGE B., Hazleton, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
R8o, D. R. BALAJI, B.A., B.L., High Court Vakil, Singrachémi-street,
Triplicane, Madras, India.
SARToNI, SIGNoRINA JULIA, 5, Piazza Donatello, Florence.
WALLACE, MRs. WILLIAM, 14, Portman-mansions, London, W.
Whamond, J. Robbie, 15, Langland-gdns, Finchley-rd, London, N.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ARBUCKLE, MRs. L. J., New Southern Hotel, Dawson Springs, Ky.
BEUGLER, CHARLEs E., Box 2,851, Boston, Mass.
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1899.
Boyn, PETER, 1,001, Chestnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
CHRIsTINE, G. MAXWELL, A_M., M.D., 2,043, N. 12th-st., Phila., Pa.
DUNHAM, DR. R. W., Keene, NH.
EARL, JoHN C., 76, Kingston-avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y.
ELDRED, N. J., Benton Harbour, Mich.
FYKE, E. E., M.D., Centralia, Ill.
GARvIN, M. T., Lancaster, Pa.
HEMMETER, JoHN C., Suite 12, Bratenahl Block, Cleveland, Ohio.
HILLMAN, HUGH H., Bank of Commerce Building, Oklahoma, O.T.
JoHNsToN, REv. HoWARD A., Madison-ave., and 53rd-st., New York, N.Y.
KELDER, H. P., 199, South Water-street, Chicago, Ill.
KREBs, GEoRGE W. C., 26, East Baltimore-street, Baltimore, Md.
LINDsEY, BEN B., 712-714, People’s Bank Building, Denver, Colo.
MACKENzIE, GEoRGE, M.D., Somerton, Pa.
MARBLE, _MILToN M., New Haven, Conn. .
MARTIN, MRs. A. W., 409, North E.-street, Tacoma, Washington, D.C.
MCCRACKEN, MIss ANNA, Xenia, Ohio.
MERCER, EDWARD W., M.D., 157, 15th-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
MILLER, F. H., 34, East Antietam-street, Hagerstown, Md.
MILLs, W. W., United States Consulate, Chihuahua, Mexico.
PITzER, GEoRGE C., M.D., 3,955, West Belle-place, St. Louis, Mo.
RICHARDsoN, M. T., Box 236, Ridgewood, NJ. '
RoMAN, DEsIDARIo, A.M., M.D., 1,429, Poplar-st., Philadelphia, Pa.
SToCKToN, JoHN P., JUNR., 259, Washingtonstreet, Jersey City, NJ.
STRAUB, MRs. HENRIETTA, Zealand, Onondaga Co., N.Y.
WYMAN, WALTER, M.D., Surgeon-General, U.S. Marine Hospital
Service, Washington, D.C.
YANDELL, MIss MAUD, Pleasant Hill, Mercer Co., Ky.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council was held on October 13th at the Rooms
of the Society. The PREsIDENT occupied the chair. There were also
present the Hon. E. Feilding, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Mr. F. Podmore,
Professor H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr. J. G. Smith, Dr.
C. Lloyd Tuckey, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Mr. C. F. G. Masterman was co-opted as a Member of the Council
for the current year.
Three Honorary Associates were elected for the current year.
'Two new Members and eight new Associates were elected. The
Nov.,1899.] P'rofesso'r Hyslop on Mrs. Piper. 131
election of twenty-nine new Associates of the American Branch was
recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
It was agreed that, in future, the names of Honorary Associates,
of the English Society and of the American Branch, should appear
together in a separate list.
The Council recorded with regret the decease of the following
Members of the Society, information of whose death had been received
since its last meeting :—The Rev. W. Whitear, who was the ﬁrst Life
Member of the Society; Dr. N. F. Bunshaw, of India, who was a Life
Associate; and Col. G. G. Beazley, Dr. Carl von Bergen, Mr. James
Gudgeon, Rev. F. Gurney, Rev. George Harpur, Mr. J. G. A.uriol
Kane, Miss F. M. F. Skene, and the Hon. and Rev. E. Wallop, all of
whom were Associates of the Society.
Some presents to the Library had been received, which were
acknowledged with thanks to the donors.
It was agreed that in addition to the General Meetings already
arranged for Friday, November 17th, at 4 p.m., and for Friday,
December 15th, at 8.30 p.m., the Annual Business Meeting of
Members of the Society be held at the VVestminster Town Hall, on
Friday, January 26th, 1900, at 3 p.m., and that a General Meeting be
held on the same day at 4 pm.
Several other matters of business having been attended to, the
Council decided to meet again, at the Westlninst-er Town Hall, on
Friday, November 17th, at 3 p.m.
PROFESSOR HYSLOP ON MRS. PIPER.
An important article by Professor J. H. Hyslop, of - Columbia
University, under the title “Immortality and Psychical Research,”
has recently appeared in an American periodical, called The New
World (Vol. VIII., June, 1899), giving a preliminary account of his
sittings with Mrs. Piper. We hope before long to be able to publish
the full report of these in our Proceedings, and meanwhile give here
a few extracts from this preliminary sketch, which deals only with
general considerations.
The writer begins by showing that, among all the various classes
of phenomena that have been regarded as evidence of spiritism, only a
very limited number can justify their claim to rank as such. He says :—
Phenomena purporting to be spiritistic, or to prove survival
after death, must represent facts that involve the wmity of consciousness and
personal identity which we once knew and can verify among the tiring. I do
not say or imply that the subject of consciousness cannot survive without a
132 J0m"na.l of Society for Psycluicotl lfeseu/rah. [Nov.,1899.
-
retention of its memory of the past, but I do say that it will be impossible
to prove survival without this retention of memory, even though we dis
covered evidence of transcendental intelligence. For the soul, if there be
such a thing, might survive with as complete a loss of personal identity, or
the sense of it, as is often remarked in the instances of auto-hypnosis, and if
this were uniformly the case there would be no possibility whatsoever of
proving immortality in any form which would satisfy the human race. But
I shall go farther and maintain that we have no ground to assume even the
existence of a soul, that is, a subject other than the brain, until we have
isolated it in its activity. The problem of the existence and the survival of
a soul go together. Scientiﬁc method, with the universal fact that conscious
ness is known only in connection with the bodily organism, unless medium
istic phenomena be genuine, requires us to suppose that mental action is a
function of the brain and is dissolved with it, if we explain anything at all
by material processes. Consequently, the only positive assurance that we
can ever have of the existence of a soul depends upon the proof of its
survival, and this, as I have asserted, depends upon the retention of a sense
of personal identity, with the additional fact that communication shall be
possible. The fact of this communication is at least simulated, and there
remains only the question whether the contents of the alleged communica
tions satisfy the evidential conditions of personal identity, while they
exclude the toleration of any other hypothesis than survival.
Speaking of the trance-utterances of Mrs. PiperJ he says :—
After ﬁnding that I had to dismiss both conscious and unconscious fraud
from my judgment of the phenomena, and after reading the reports with the
utmost care, I felt that possibly the evidence for the spiritistic theory might
still be largely weakened by suggestion from the sitters, and possibly
somewhat by illusions of interpretation applied to the incidents. I was
convinced that telepathy was necessary to explain some of them, even if
suggestion did account for a part of the record, and if spiritism was not to
be accepted. My supposition was based upon a misunderstanding of the
perfection of the record itself, as the early reports were admittedly imperfect
and open to qualiﬁcation from suspicion of this sort. Hence I arranged for
sittings myself, which I conducted under conditions that completely excluded
illusion and suggestion on my part and fraud on the part of the medium. I
cannot detail the conditions here, but shall do so in my report, but they
admit fraud only on the part of Dr. Hodgson and myself, and the facts
obtained in the experiments were such that I unhesitatingly assert that I
shall have to bear the brunt of all the suspicion on that account. For
myself, then, I am reduced to a choice between telepathy and the spiritistic
theory to explain the phenomena, and, for the present at least, I prefer the
spiritistic view, or, perhaps more respectably stated, the claim that the
immortality of the soul has come within the sphere of legitimate scientiﬁc
belief.
The peculiarity of the Piper phenomena is that they unquestionably
simulate the scientiﬁc demand that spiritism, if true, [should] produce
evidence of personal identity in cases of alleged communications between
Nov., 1899.] Pr'0fess0o' Hye-lop on Mrs. Piper. 133
discarnate and incarnate minds. The phenomena are particularly rich in
this characteristic, assuming every phase of mental traits with which any
one is familiar in a friend, and that crop up here across the conﬁnes of the
grave—little tricks of word or language, of emotional expression, of moral
taste and habit, and in fact almost every feature of likeness and unlikeness
which we remark between men as we know them. The most striking facts
are those incidents by which we should instantaneously identify their
source if they purported to come from a friend in life, often such as would
require no cumulative character to sustain their conclusiveness. These are
multiplied with wearisome repetition and variation, and in so intimate and
unexpected a form as well as content, bafiiing all suspicion of the possibility
of fraud, and so speciﬁc in their nature that it requires the most
extraordinary theories to account for them. The narrative, of course,
is an interrupted one, with features in it that are calculated to suggest the
utmost suspicion in the interpretation of the case, though, if it were not
for the necessity of allowing for telepathy and unconscious fraud in the
supernormal action of secondary personality, scepticism would hardly have
any standing at all. But there are immense quantities of incoherence and
of dubious matter, not necessarily false or contradictory, but thoroughly
opposed to all our orthodox ideas of clear consciousness in another existence,
though it may be unwarranted on our part either to have any ideas on this
matter or to suppose that the phenomena attest anything whatsoever in
regard to the real conditions of a transcendental life. But these incoherences
have to be mentioned as a warning to the general reader, who might be led
by the spirit of the present article to expect more from the reports than he
will ﬁnd, without an adequate knowledge of the conditions and diﬂiculties
that must necessarily attend anything like a communication between two
worlds. If it took the best resources of science and mechanical art to achieve
the telephone and to discover the Riintgen rays, we must not be surprised if
the early attempts to test the genuineness of phenomena purporting to
connect the present with an immaterial existence are atteIIded with much
that must labour under the suspicions of pathology. But this way of
speaking savours too much of an apology for the case, which it is not my
main purpose to make. The important fact to know and admit is that the
evidence for immortality, such as it is, represents precisely that type of
incidents actually in the lives of the two persons supposed thus to be
communicating across the boundaries of two worlds, which forces the
asumption of supernormal acquisition of knowledge, and so completely
satisﬁes the requirements of testimony for personal identity that there seems
no way to explain the phenomena but to accept some gigantic hypothesis
which is not vitiated by any of the incoherences observed. Were we dealing
with the generalities and incoherences of ordinary automatism, we should
have an easy problem before us. But this is not the case. The amazing
number of speciﬁc incidents that can be proved to have been the experiences,
thoughts, and actions of the alleged communicator and of him alone, in
connection with the sitter, is so overwhelming in its character that no
student can refuse it the merit of fulﬁlling, in its external features at least,
the demands of scientiﬁc proof for immortality. . .
134 Journal of Society for P.syclrival Res-em'ch. [Nov., 1899
Professor Hyslop observes that the only alternative hypothesis is
to assume an amazing extension of the power of obtaining knowledge
by telepathy from the minds of living persons, whether present or
absent. But, he says :—
In the case under consideration, which has created so much interest,
the use of telepathy to account for it involves two tremendous consequences
The ﬁrst is the capacity of the medium, all unconsciously, to transcend the
knowledge of the sitter and to reach out anywhere into the world, discover
the right person, and select speciﬁc facts iII the life of the deceased person
who is alleged to be the comlnunicator, facts that have generally to be
veriﬁed by those who knew, and perhaps could know, nothing about them.
The second is the almost inﬁnite selective and discriminative power of the
medium’s subliminal between the knowledge and memories belonging only
to the sitter’s own life and those memories of the sitter which represent
also the experience of the alleged communicator.
The rest of the article consists of further discussion of these
diﬂiculties of the telepathic interpretation.
CASES.
From Mrs. A. W. Verrall, of Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
P. 264 (I-)
The following is an account of the apparent fulﬁlment of a premoni
tion experienced by Mrs. A. W. Verrall. Our readers will observe that
the case is unusually well authenticated, since it was not only recorded
at the time it occurred, but the record was entrusted to the Hon.
Secretary of the Society before ascertaining whether any external
event corresponded to the percipient’s impression or not. The value
of our evidence in general would be greatly increased if all our
witnesses would follow the example thus set.
With regard to the impression itself, it is possible that the ticking
sound may have been an illusion rather than a hallucination; but
Mrs. Verrall has, as she relates, heard it several times, and tried in
vain to discover any material source for it, while on each occasion it
has appeared to be a supernormal indication of some external event,
either contemporary or future.
An impression of this vague kind affords, of course, weaker
evidence of supernormal faculty than such deﬁnite phenomena as
hallucinatory visions or voices. But the particular form here taken
was probably due to shaping by the percipient’s subconscious self.
Mrs. Verrall traces its origin to her having as a child heard the
“death-watch ” ticking shortly before a death in her family, and being
told at the same time of the superstition connected with it, which
made at the time a deep impression on her mind.
Nov., 1899.] Cases. 135
The incident is described in the following letters addressed to
Mr. Myers :— '
(1)
5, Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge,
[Tuesday] September 20th, 1898, 3 p.m.
DEAR MR. MYER.S,—Just a line for the stamp of the post,—in case
anything has “ occurred,”—t0 say that this afternoon, at 2.30, I heard the
curious ticking which I think I have mentioned to you. It comes usually,
if not always, when I am lying down, and may be due to some physical
cause ; but it has at least once been associated with the illness of a friend,
so I make a point of noting it, and I suppose the stamp of the post is
desirable.
But absit omen! M_ DE G_ VERRALL.
Mr. Myers notes on this letter:—“ Received September 20th,
1898; 8.30 p.m.”
(2)
September 22nd, 1898.
I am sure you will be interested to hear that something has happened,—
and glad with me that it is apparently nothing serious. As a fact I don’t
yet know what it is ! But at 7.30 to-night I got a telegram from my sister
at Caen to say “Arrived safely, both well." Now my sister was to have
crossed yesterday to Ouistreham and gone on to-day to Falaise. I had a
complete list of addresses for her (during a short bicycle tour which she is
making with a friend) yesterday morning. Indeed the fact that I heard
from her on Wednesday and had no telegram had made me regard her and
my father as outside the risk.
Something then, as you see, has gone wrong with her. I have never had
a telegram from her from abroad in my life,—so that I am sure that some
thing has happened which she thinks I may hear of before knowing of her
safety.
When I do hear, I will let you know. But I shall be in no hurry to hear
that ticking again! Next time things may be worse.
When I have this story complete, I will send you a “report” on the
ticking, if I have not already done so. I have never been able to decide
whether it was prognostic—really a warning of trouble to come—or
telepathic, conveying to me the anxiety of some other person. This case
may settle it (in my mind), for if some accident occurred yesterday or
to-day to my sister, I do not think telepathy could inspire me with alarm on
Tuesday‘ M. na G. VERRALL.
(3)
September 25th, 1898.
On Thursday morning, after landing at Ouistreham from the steamer
which crossed by night from Newhaven, my sister—I quote from her letter
to my father of September 22nd—“ made a false step and plunged into the
water of the harbour. A sailor was quickly overboard after me, I paddled
136 Journal of Society for P83/cldcal Research. [Nov-,1899
on my back for a little and called out for fear I had not been seen, for B.
[her companion] had just gone on with the bicycles to the hotel cart in wait
ing. It was all the affair of a very few minutes, and nothing could have
been kinder than bystanders when I was hauled up.” She goes on to say
that she is none the worse, and adds, “ Please send this to lllay. I wired to
her a message to show we were all right, in case some English paper might
have got hold of the story.”
So you see the whole thing is very complete. After the warning to me,
a distinctive accident to my sister—that might easily have been very serious
—and a prompt message of reassurance from her to me. I think she must
have had some inkling of my anxiety, for the chance of my hearing alarming
news was small. On the other hand, though we are not a nervous family,
we do telegraph if we think others may be alarmed. I myself once, being
in a slight railway accident. telegraphed home at once.
It seems to me that this story disposes of the “ telepathic” explanation
of my ticking, as I heard it about forty hours [really about thirty-two
hours, see below] before the accident to my sister. . . . .
I have kept the telegram and the letter from my sister with my father’s
line enclosing it. M DE G VERPALL
Mrs. Verrall adds later the following correction as to the date of
her sister’s accident :—
The accident was on the Wednesday night, about 10 or 11 p.m. I was
mistaken at the time as to the hour the boat left Newhaven. I thought it was
a night boat, but it left at four o’clock and reached Ouistreham about
10 p. nI.
Mrs. Verrall made a note of her experience at the time, which gives
a fuller description of it than her letter to Mr. Myers, as follows :—
[Copy of Note.]—“September 20th, 1898, 2.30 p.m. As I was lying
down on the sofa in the study just now, I heard suddenly on my left a
rapid, not perfectly regular, ticking—like a watch in the drawer of the
table, but faster. I could hear at the same time the study clock and
my watch, both slower. I took off my watch, and afterwards took it
out of the room, but the ticking continued. I cannot hear it sitting at
this table, but it is very distinct when I lie on the sofa—and rather
alarming or disturbing perhaps—it sounds excited.
“3 p.m. At 2.45 I lay down again, but there was no more ticking.”
—[End of Note.]
She adds on August 2nd, 1899 :—
The ticking is faster than a watch, and less regular—louder than a
watch, but not so loud as a clock. It has usually been on my left side, and
sounds as if an irregularly ticking watch lay on a table. On one occasion,
at least, it was on the right. I have heard it with other people in the room,
as well as when I have been alone. On one occasion another person heard
it, on my drawing attention to it. On that occasion we both heard it grow
fainter till it ceased. M DE G VERRALL
Nov., 1899.] Cases. 137
The telegram from her sister, which Mrs. Verrall showed us, is
dated:—“ Handed in at Caen, September 22nd, at 6 pm.” and has the
office stamp: “Cambridge, September 22nd, 1898. Received here at
6.59 p.m.” A letter from her sister to her gives the following further
details of the accident :—
Hotel de France, St. Malo, September 27th.
. it was very nearly drowning. The great danger was being
sucked beneath the ship and I had in fact to my own consciousness gone
under, when the boatswain, who had heard the splash and clambered down
the sides of the boat, put his arm round my waist and I stretched mine
round his. Immediately after, a rope was lowered and I climbed up it hand
over hand, soon getting my head out of water ; then a man from above
seized my cloak, another ﬂung a noosed rope, which they put round me and
they hauled me up. The men say, if I had lost consciousness and not been
able to help myself, it would have been all over. Again, if in the ﬁrst
instance I had fallen forward instead of merely stepping off the edge and
going in feet foremost, I should either have sulfered from the contact with
the water some two yards below me, or been suffocated. Of course I knew
the dangers perfectly well. First, it might be that no one knew I had gone
over. That is why I shouted. The people on the shore say they heard, but
the sailor not,—he was guided simply by the splash. Then, after I was
drawn under the ship, I did not see how I was to be got at. But I fancy
this was only in process, and even to my thought the space of time seemed
wonderfully short. Poor B. thought it long enough. She saw a crowd press
forward and heard “ quelqu’un a tombé à. l’eau,” and when she called out to
me and had no answer, she knew it must be I. She immediately called for
a light, which was brought, and must have made things easier. . . .
[Next day we] took the train on to Oaen and looked up the boatswain
of the Oalvados. It was after seeing him and the mate that we decided
to send wires, because they spoke of it as so very near a fatal accident,
and almost certain to be copied from the French into the English
papers.
L. 1117.
On another occasion when Mrs. Verrall heard the same ticking
sound, it appears to have been telepathic,—coinciding with the illness
of a friend. This time the ticking was not noted immediately, but was
noted before she had any news of the illness. It was, moreover, noted
on the very day on which her sister had written to tell her of the
illness, so that her sister’s thinking of her may possibly have induced
her to make the note, which she had forgotten to do at the time. The
following are her notes of the occurrence :—
[Copy of Note].—“July 17th [1892] 7.45 p.m., Brecon. Just remem
bered that during our absence I have heard again the odd ticking that
I have noticed before. We had put out the light (it was at Kingstown,
July 8th), and I said A. had not wrapped up his watch as usual. He
said he had. I said I heard it; we both listened, both heard the ticking,
<11.)
138 Jou/r"/w.t of Society _/"or Psyciuicat Researclr. [Nov.,1899.
which grew gradually fainter and stopped. He had not been asleep, but
I had. I was awake at the time, having been thoroughly roused by
his arrival about 12 p.m. This must have happened between 12 and
1.* . . .”—[li'ml of Note].
[Copy of Note].—“On July 18th I received a letter from Flora [my
sister] telling me that M.+ was ill, that they had feared typhoid, and
that though that fear was over she was still very weak. I at once
associated her illness with the ‘ticking’ of July 8th, noted on July 17th
On July 18th I wrote to H.I for news, and asked if on July 8th any
thing special had happened, as I had been uneasy—though not about M.
This morning (July 21st) I hear from H., ‘She has been ill ever since
the night of July 8th, oddly enough !’ "—-[End of Note].
I found -subsequently that the news of M.’s illness was sent in a letter
received by my sister on July 10th, from M. On the 12th a post-card was
received ; on the 13th a letter ; on the 14th a post-card with better news.
I had a letter on the 14th from my mother, who purposely said nothing to
me. My ﬁrst news was in the letter received on July 18th, written about
11 a.m. on July 17th (the day I noted the “ ticking” of the night of the 8th).
My notebook was packed up and I forgot to note the occurrence on ﬁrst
reaching Brecon.
Mrs. Verrall has given us full details, which, however, she does
not wish to be published, of her hearing a similar “ ticking ” several
times in the course of two earlier periods of her life. In both cases
it appeared to have a premonitory signiﬁcance. On the ﬁrst occasion
a death followed, which was foreseen by other members of her house
hold, though the reasons for expecting it were carefully withheld
from herself. It is therefore possible that their anxiety was
transmitted to her telepathically, or that she was subliminally aware
of it. On the second occasion another death followed, which there
was no reason for expecting, since it was, in all probability, the
result of an accident.
Mrs. Verrall tells us that she has never heard the “ ticking” except
on the occasions described here, and that she has never connected
the sound with any particular person.
AN INCORRECT VERSION OF A CASE OF SUPPOSED
“ SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHY.”
Our readers are probably familiar with the case of supposed
“spirit-photography” in which a ﬁgure appeared unaccountably in a
* The other percipient in this case, Dr. Verrall, has now forgotten that he shared
the experience, though he remembers Mrs. Verrall’s part of it.
1' M. is an intimate friend of mine and my siste-r’s—in London at the time.-—
M. de G. V.
I H. is another intimate friend, living with M.—M. de G.,V.
Nov., 1899.] Case of Supposed Spirit-Photography. 139
photograph of the library at “ D. Hall,” taken by Miss S. R. Corbet.
The account of Professor Barrett’s investigation of this case ﬁrst
appeared in the Journal for December, l895, and was reprinted in
the last number of the Proceedings (Part XXXV., p. 234).
After the publication of the Proceedings, Dr. I. \V. Heysinger, an
Associate of the American Branch of the Society, wrote to the
Secretary of the Branch to draw attention to a very incorrect version
of the same case which had appeared in a letter in The English
Jlleohanie of September 9th, 1898, with the signature “A Fellow of
the Royal Astronomical Society ” (which,—following the example of the
magazine,—we shorten below into “ F. R. A, S.”).
As this is one of those cases in which —apparently as a result of
wide publicity—numerous myths have accreted round the original and
authentic story, it seems worth while to give publicity to a denial of
some of the mythical addenda. The following is the incorrect version
referred to by Dr. Heysinger (op. cit, p. 92, Letter No. 41,461) :—
In Letter 41,252 (on p. 500 of your last volume) I criticised very freely
a curious narrative which you had reproduced on p. 447, under the style
and title of “Telepathy in Cornwall.” I now propose to tell a quasi-ghost
story of my own which is equally extraordinary, and shall be glad if my
brother readers and correspondents will comment on it in a similar spirit,
especially should any one of them succeed in giving a rational explanation
of a very remarkable occurrence indeed. I may say, at the outset, that I
shall use algebraical symbols for the names of the people concerned in this
strange affair, as it is, in one sense, a somewhat painful and unpleasant
story, and, of course, those mixed up in it, from their social rank and
position, are necessarily averse to appear in connection with such a matter.
I have, however, given the names in private to our Editor for his own
satisfaction. To proceed, then, at once, with my tale.
In the year 189— there died at his seat in S shire a nobleman, whom
I will call Lord X. At the time of his death his two daughters, the
Honourable Mrs. Y. and Lady Z., were both in the house. Now, the
favourite sitting-room of the family was the library, and on the day of the
funeral one of the sisters said to the other: “We have been so happy in
this room that, before we leave it for good. we will take a photograph of
it ” ;—which, to shorten my story, as a matter of fact, she (or rather her
daughter) did. Fpon developing the negative, to her horror this lady found
a partial image of a man seated in an otherwise empty armchair, and at
once, with her sister, recognised it as that of their father I She and her sister
were so shocked and stupeﬁed at this result that they determined to keep
the matter secret. They, however, printed one or two positives from the
negative, and so the story leaked out among their friends : and it is after a
careful examination of one of these prints that I have determined to tell
the tale here, with a view to its possible elucidation. The library is a very
large room, with the walls covered with books. There are no portraits—or
140 Journal of Sm:i.ety_fwr P8}/cluicrtl Itesewrch. [Nov., 1899.
anything analogous—in it, whose reﬂection might have formed a spurious
image. The right-hand side of the sitting ﬁgure is certainly the more
distinct of the two; the face in the positive not being very well deﬁned.
The right shoulder and arm resting on the arm of the chair are, however,
perfectly clear and distinct, and the right hand, which I have just been
examining with a magnifying glass, is as sharply deﬁned as is that with
which 1 am writing these lines. One extraordinary coincidence, identifying
this imperfect image with that of the deceased peer, I purposely suppress,
as its mention would almost certainly lead to his identiﬁcation. I can
attempt no explanation of this whatever. It seems to me—a practical
photographer—absolutely inexplicable. Perhaps, though, some one or
more of my brother readers may be more fortunate in ﬁnding a solution.
I have simply given the facts as stated to me. I have myself certainly no
theory to account for them. I may perhaps add, it may be needlessly, that
I have personally not the very slightest faith in ghosts.
In answer to letters in the same magazine, suggesting various
possible explanations of the case, “F. R. A. S.” writes further (op. cit,
p. 138) :
. The interpretation of the personality of the (partial) ﬁgure in the
chair is not mine, but that of the own daughters of the man. . . . The
sisters had lived in the house for a long time. No, they had not previously
photographed the room. It was only when they were leaving it for good and
all that they thought that they should like a memento of the scene of much
past happiness. The plate belonged to the lady who took the photograph.
The chair shows more or less through the left-hand moiety of the ﬁgure,
and no legs are visible, the chair front being perfectly distinct there Had
any one sat down in the chair for a trick his legs must have been distinctly
visible. . . . The room was lighted by brilliant sunshine.
The ﬁgure is dark and shadowy, while parts of the chair are well lighted
I have myself seen many so~called “ spirit-photographs,” but the imposture
and the mode of its perpetration were at once visible on inspection.
Again, after examining a new print of the photograph, he writes
(op. cit, p. 233) :—
The supposition that the ﬁgure seated in the chair had its origin in a
blemish in the plate . . . is an utterly untenable one. The face, the
shirt-collar, arm and hand, with the ﬁngers and the projecting thumb, are so
absolutely distinct as to preclude the possibility of this ; and I am driven to
the conclusion that some one must have sat in the chair for a very short time
during the exposure of the plate. VVhat, however, continues to puzzle me
is that Mrs. Y. and Lady Z. strenuously deny that any one entered the room
during the time that they were taking the photograph. . . . They were
so frightened at the result of what they had done that for some considerable
time they kept it to themselves.
Amongst a mass of irrelevant discussion of how the photograph
might have been produced, had the circumstances been totally
Nov., 1899.] Case of Supposed S'pirt't-Photography. 141
different from what they were, occurs the following practical suggestion
(op. cit., p. 238), based on actual observation of a print :—
I have not the least doubt that the apparent “spirit ” is due to
the reﬂection of light from the large brass standard upon the dark back
ground of the armchair. The “ spirit ” head is exactly in the right position
for a beam of light reﬂected from the cup-shaped top, and the rest is due
either to reﬂection froin the shaft or polished bosses. ' If the light was the
same and the chair and brass standard in the same place, the “spirit’
could be photographed at any time.
T. E. EsPIN.
Tow Law, R.S.O., co. Durham, October 14th.
This hypothesis is discussed by “ F. R. A. S.” on p. 280, and ﬁnally
rejected. He suggests, however, that Mr. Espin should try whether
he can reproduce the effect or anything like it experimentally, and in
accordance with this suggestion, Mr. Espin writes later (p. 371) :—
I have tried it in miniature with a toy armchair in a box, and a candle
and various round silver and brass reﬂectors, and the results have been such
that I feel pretty conﬁdent that the brass standard in the photograph
is really the cause of the phenomenon. In one position, with a small
silver cup beaten out of a Spanish double doubloon, I got a kind of a
head, and, by inclining a cup, a semi-circle of light which fairly well
represented the arm. I have this morning tried the same experiments
with sunlight in place of a candle, and have got the same effects, only
more pronounced, and those to whom I have shown them quite realise
the similarity of the phenomena. The “arms” of the ﬁgure can be
well obtained if the light is admitted through a slit, and by moving the
slit one arm can be obtained without the other.* The “hand” each
photographer I have shown it to agrees with me is only a ﬂaw in the
plate; there are several others, especially on the ceiling of the room.
There are some other curious points about the photograph. There is a
small ornamental chair in the centre, and the back legs are transparent;
also a book can be seen through the back. There is a large table, the
leg of which is transparent. Each of these objects presents the appearance
of the hand when looked at through a feather- when (by diffraction in this
case) there is an appearance very similar to an X-ray picture. The
“hand” under a magniﬁer seems to show ﬁve ﬁngers and three thumbs,
and a plant close to is doubled. Does “F. R. A. S.” know anything
about the conditions of the light at the time? I am inclined to suspect
that the photo was taken with a long exposure on a dark day.
T. E. EsPIN.
Tow Law, R.S.O., co. Durham, N01-ember 21st.
On p. 370 “ F. R. A. S.” writes again :—
I have nowhere stated that it was from a peculiarity in the hand that the
image was identiﬁed as that of the deceased peer. I very studiously
avoided even hinting at the nature of the coincidence. which seemed to me
so remarkable. . . . . There was no portrait whatever, either photo
graphic or in oils or water-colour, of Lord X. in the library when the
picture was taken. . . . . It would be impossible, after this lapse of
time, to say whether there was or was not a pinhole in the camera.
* \Ve hope to obtain further information about these experiments.
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov.,1899.
On page 417 “ F. R. A. S.” says :-—
“ A. S. L.” (Letter 41,850, p. 394) is absolutely correct in his surmise
that no reﬂection from a lamp standard could ever have produced the
peculiarity to which I referred, inasmuch as that pecuharity took the form
of a p7"ii.‘G.ti0it.
Now, comparing the ﬁrst-hand narrative of Miss Corbet with
“ F. R. A. S.’s ” version, we see that the latter is incorrect with regard
to the following particulars :
(l) The nobleman designated by “F. R.A. S.” as “Lord X.” (and
by Miss Corbet as “Lord D.”), did not die “at his seat in S shire”
(which Miss Corbet calls “ D. Hall ”), but in London, D. Hall being at
the time let to Miss Corbet’s sister, Lady S.
(2) “Lord X’s” daughters were not at D. Hall at the time of his
funeral.
(3) The photograph was not purposely, but accidentally, taken on
the day of the funeral.
(4) Neither “Lord X.’s” daughters nor any of his relatives had
anything to do either with the taking or developing of the photograph.
(The photograph was, however, shown to his family, and it was with
their full consent that Miss Corbet’s account of the whole incident
was published by us).
(5) “Lord X.’s ” daughters did not, as “F. R. A. S.” asserts,
“strenuously deny that any one entered the room during the time
that they were taking the photograph,” for the obvious reason that
they had nothing to do with it. The inaccuracy is a serious one,
since it makes the evidence for spiritistic agency appear stronger than
it really is. The weakest point in that evidence is the fact that, as
Miss Corbet informed us, the door of the room was left open all the
time the photograph was being taken, the camera being placed in the
open doorway, while she and her sister went out for a walk, apparently
leaving the house empty, except for the servants.
The discrepancies between “ F. R.A.S.’s” account and Miss Corbet’s
ﬁrst-hand one are so serious as almost to suggest that the two accounts
do not refer to the same incident. But, as Dr. Heysinger observes :—
If it is not the same case, then the coincidences are more remarkable
than anything appropriate to the same title in this July Proceedings, while
if they are the same, then there is a mass of misstatement, false suggestion,
and error running through the whole which is simply inexplicable to me, for
the articles in the English magazine, many of them, are by eminent men of
science (Professor Espin, for example), who claimed to have knowledge at
ﬁrst-hand.
Any lingering doubt, however, as to whether the two cases were
the same has been dispelled by “ F. R. A. S.’s ” informing us in
conﬁdence that the real name of the deceased nobleman was the same.
l)r. Heysinger makes the very natural assumption that a sc-ientiﬁc
man would not print statements of the kind given above except at
ﬁrst-hand,—especially when he prefaces them by a reference to an
alleged case of telepathy which he had criticised on the ground
Nov., 1899.] Correspondence. 1 43
that it was related at third-hand. It will be noticed, however, that
“F. R.A.S.’s” present narrative only professes to be ﬁrst-hand so far
as the description of the photograph, which he himself examined, is
concerned. He now informs us that he had the story and photograph
from a certain gentleman, whose name he gives, and who was a
common friend of himself and some of the relatives of “Lord X.”
This gentleman’s account cannot be nearer than second-hand, since he
was not one of the witnesses of the incident; so that “ F. R. A. S/s ”
version of his account is at least third-hand, and may be more remote.
When we know this, it is hardly necessary to look further for the
cause of the numerous inaccuracies observed. Those who have had a
little practice in comparing ﬁrst-hand with more remote accounts,
especially of incidents with any savour of the supernatural about
them, will probably not be surprised at the amount of incorrectness
to be found in this instance; while those who are sometimes
disposed to cavil at the caution of our Society in refusing almost
invariably to treat even second-hand accounts as of any evidential
value, may see here an instructive example of the result of relaxing
such precautions.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions errpressed by C01-i'espondents.]
A FALsE ALARM.
Mr. F. C. S. Schiller writes from Oxford :—
Corpus Christi College, Oxford, ()ctobe'r 22nd, 1899.
The readers of the Daily Chronicle of October 4th must have been shocked
and startled to ﬁnd in it a ﬁnely “scare-headed ” sensational and circum
stantial account of how certain “Salvation Army Lasses” in Oxford had a
disastrous encounter with a female apparition, which issued from a wall and
easily walked through their line of battle. The result of the engagement
was that, of the Salvation Army’s forces, one was left “ in strong convulsions
and the other in a dead faint,” while the third was left capable of contri
buting to the Chronicle.
The “ ghost ” apparently escaped unscathed.
The (‘hronicle’s account concludes by stating that “ the sad part of the
story is that one young lady has since gone raving mad from the effects of
the fright, and the other died a few days ago from the same cause.”
Here, apparently, was a most unusual case of ghostly audacity combined
with a ferocity worthy of the worst traditions of the nursery, which was
said to have ended in the defeat of a corps d’élite of the Salvation Army,
presumably well adapted to cope with spiritual foes of all sorts. The case
seemed suspicious, but eminently deserving of the S.P.R.’s attentions.
Accordingly, when my attention was called to the story and I had been
requested by a friend to look into it, I proceeded to inquire of the editor
of the Daily Chrowlcle whether he could give me any further information,
either about his Oxford correspondent or about the surviving heroine of the
tale. The editor replied that he was “unable to give any further infor
mation.” I then addressed an inquiry to the “Commanding Oﬂicer of the
1414i Jowrnat of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov-. 1899
Salvation Army in Oxford,” pointing out what a serious reﬂection the story
constituted on the honour of his army. In reply to this, Ensign W. C. Dorey
very promptly and courteously stated that “ there is no truth in it whatever."
Thus the ghost is laid, the tall phantom “in a long grey dress” is
acquitted of the alleged murder, and the spiritual world is cleared of one
more false imputation. One only wonders why the Chronicle should have
published the tale, and what principle guides the selection of the “news ”
which it purveys.
F. C. S. SCHILLER.
A NoTE oN SELF-SUGGEsTIoN.
Dr. Fillebrown’s observations on the efﬁcacy of self-suggestion, as a
means of alleviating pain. remind me of my own experience on the subject.
Some forty years ago, when a student, I had to undergo a very painful
treatment from a hard-hearted surgeon. During a whole fortnight, every
second day, that barbarous man burned deeper and deeper into halfa-dozen
sores on my leg with lunar caustic, taking plenty of time about it, and, as
I imagined, enjoying his bit of surgery. The pain was excruciating. After
the ﬁrst days I got ashamed of my want of courage, and remembering that
the Stoics of old used to endure pain without ﬁinching, even to the length
of denying pain, I thought I would do the same and look on my leg as an
insensible log of wood.
The result was very wonderful. After two or three attempts I came to
be perfectly quiet and unfeeling under the operation. Denying strenuously
the pain inﬂicted on me, I was not feeling any pain.
Of course, at that time I knew nothing of self-suggestion and its efﬁcacy.
Ever since, when I have had to undergo a painful operation, such as
extracting a thorn from my ﬁnger or having a boil cut open, I have
exercised the same power of will or imagination, with the same result, com
plete or partial. And this was peculiarly useful when I have had to submit
to the extraction of a tooth.
Age has hardly yet diminished that power of self-suggestion, as I had
occasion to ascertain last night, when I was so stupid as to burn one of my
ﬁngers severely with handling a red-hot glass tube. In less than three
minutes the pain was gone, although the ﬁnger was much swollen and still
bears to-day the brand of my clumsiness.
As a martyr on the stake, could I show to the world a like fortitude?
Who knows ? But I have doubts on that point.
Ave. GLARDoN.
Tour de Peilz, Vaud, October 5th, 1899.
CORRECTION.
Mr. Donald Murray asks us to correct an error occurring in the
account of a case (L. 1113) contributed by him to the July Journal
(p. lO4), where he was described as Editor of the Sydney Morning
Herald. He tells us that this was incorrect and that he was not at
any time Editor of the paper. The same mistake was unfortunately
repeated in the P'roceedings, Part XXXV., which appeared in the
same month, and in which some premonitory dreams of races narrated.
by Mr. Murray were given (p. 317).
No. CLXIV.—VoL. IX. DECEMBER, 1899. '
JOURNAL
oF THE
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I45
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I46
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I46
Cases .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I50
Correspondence .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I58
supplementary Library Catalogue . . . . . . . . .. .. . . .. . . I59
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Jlembers are printed in Black TYPE.
Names of Associates are pvinted in SMALL CAPITALs.
BARKWoRTH, MRs., Old Croft, Carlisle.
BUTTERY, J. W., 1, Meyrick-road, Stafford.
Coudenhove, Count Henry, LL.D., Schloss Ronsperg, Bohemia,
Austria.
Lendon-Bennett, M_,Granite House, Putney-bridge-rd., Putney, S.W.
RITTER, MIss, Queen Anne’s Mansions, St. James’ Park, S.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BANERJI, PRAFULLA CH., Dy. Postmaster-General, Daooa, Eastern
Bengal, India.
' BRoWN, MRs. SAMUEL R., 2501, Farnarn-street, Omaha, Neb.
CAHILL, DR. ELIzA B., N.E. Conservatory of Music, Franklin-square,
Boston, Mass.
CARPENTER, PRoFEssoR G. R., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
CoRmzzo, MIss K., Meadville, Penna.
FRANKLIN, MRs. ANNE R., Tampa, Florida.
FRIENDLIsK, E., Galena, Texas.
HUNT, MRs. GEoRGE S., 165, State-street, Portland, Maine.
JACKsoN, MRs. JosEPHINE, 178, West 82nd-street, New York, N.Y.
MAnUsRCm, Rev. FR. ADELBERT, 236, S. 12th-street, Reading, Pa.
MAsER, F. E., c/o National Park Bank, 214, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
MAYo, MIss A. L., 11, Robeson-street, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
MoRRIs, EDWARD L., Glastonbury, Conn.
NICoLL, Mus. EDWARD H., 20, Berkeley-street, Cambridge, Mass.
146 Journal of Society for .P8_z/ClL’i6(Ll Research. [DEc.,1899.
PARRIsH, THos. C., 16, Hagerman Building, Colorado Springs, Colo.
RoNTEY, ABEL M., 506, First-avenue, New York, N.Y.
RosE, BYRoN, North Attleborough, Mass.
WETzEL, GEo. H., 118, E. Main-street, Lancaster, Ohio.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council was held on November 17th at the
Westminster Town Hall. The PREsIDENT occupied the chair. There
were also present Dr. A. ‘V. Barrett, Professor W. F. Barrett, Mr.
Montague Crackanthorpe, Mr. C. F. G. Masterman,. Mr. F. W. H.
Myers, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr. J. G'. Smith,
Sir A. K. Stephenson, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Two new Members and three new Associates were elected. The
election of eighteen new Associates of the American Branch was
recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
The Council recorded with regret the decease of Mr. Charles H.
Cousens, and of Miss Anna Swanwick, Associates of the Society.
Some presents to the Library were reported, which were acknow
ledged with thanks to the donors.
On the motion of Mr. Myers, Mr. J. G. Smith was elected to act as
Co-Honorary Secretary.
It was agreed that in addition to the General Meetings already
arranged for December and January, General Meetings be held at the
Westminster Town Hall on Friday, March 2nd, at 8.30 p.m., Friday,
April 6th, at 4 p.m., and Friday, May 18th, at 8.30 p.m.
Various other matters having been attended to, the Council decided
to meet again at 19, Buckingham-street, on Friday, December 15th,
at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL ME ETING.
The lO1st General Meeting of the Society was heldin the
Westminster Town Hall on Friday, November 17th, at 4 p.m. ; the
PREsIDENT, SIR WILLIAM CRomrss, in the chair.
A paper on “ The Fire Walk ” by MR. ANDREW LANG was read by
MR. F. W. H. MYERs, giving recent instances from many parts of the
world of the rite of passing through ovens or furnaces, the bare feet
of the walkers being uninjured by contact with the red-hot stones or
embers. These cases appeared to be analogous with the alleged
performances with ﬁre of the medium, D. D. Home. In one case,
Colonel Gudgeon, British Resident at Rarotonga, described his own
DEC., 1899.] General illeeting. 147
passing through the ﬁre with three other Europeans (one of whom
was badly burnt) followed by about 200 Maoris. Another was an
account of the Fiji Fire Ceremony, witnessed by Dr. T. M. Hocken
at Mbenga. The article will shortly appear in full in the next Part
of the Proceedings.
THE CHAIRMAN said that he knew of no chemical or other
preparation which could be applied to the skin in such a way as to
prevent the ordinary destructive action of heat on organic matter.
He himself had witnessed the performances with ﬁre of the medium,
D. D. Home, on two or three occasions. On one occasion, in the
drawing4‘oom of a lady friend of the speaker’s, Home became
entranced, went up to the ﬁre—which was not a coal, but a wood
ﬁre—raked it out with his hands, and took up a lump of red-hot
charcoal about twice the size of an egg into his hand, on which
certainly no asbestos was visible. He blew into his hands and the
ﬂames could be seen coming out from between his ﬁngers and he
carried the charcoal round the room. One of the persons present
asked if it would hurt him if he touched it. Home told him he might
try ; he did so and found that it did burn him. On the same evening
the speaker saw Home put a red-hot coal on a ﬁne cambric handker
chief and carry the handkerchief about. He took possession of the
handkerchief immediately afterwards and examined it chemically in
his laboratory and found no trace of any chemical preparation on it.
At one part there was a small hole burnt, but otherwise it was quite
unharmed.
He remarked that the temperature that the human body could
stand was limited by the point at which albumen coagulates, namely,
163 deg. R; if the substance of the body itself got above that
temperature, it would be so much injured that death would ensue.
The old system of making iron in the puddling furnaces seemed to
him to furnish the closest parallel that could be found in ordinary
experience to the cases related in Mr. Lang’s paper. Men—naked
down to their waists —had to work very close to these furnaces, the
heat being so great that ordinary persons could not go anywhere near
them. The men themselves told him that a beginner could not stand
the heat and had to get gradually accustomed to it, and that it took
three generations to make a really good puddler. In some of the Fire
Walk cases it had been suggested that heredity had something to do
with the faculty. This did not, however, apply to Home’s case.
Again, there are some substances which are almost non-conductors
of heat. For instance, he had seen a test of a ﬁre-proof box contain
ing sealing-wax, gunpowder and wax vestas, having been kept in a
148 Jou/rnal of Society for Ps_y/c-hicat Reseu/rah. [DEc.,1899.
furnace for an hour and a half. It was red-hot when it came out, but
on being opened, its contents were found to be unaffected by the heat.
PRoFEssoR W. F. BARRETT said that it was interesting to have
heard on the highest authority that no known chemical preparation
could have protected the feet of the Fire VValkers from serious injury.
A physical phenomenon had occurred to him which at ﬁrst sight
presented a certain analogy to the Fire Walking phenomena. If a
white-hot ball of metal—preferably of copper—be lowered into a
vessel of water, containing a little soap in solution, it will enter the
water without any ebullition of steam, and the ball will remain white-
hot in the midst of the water for a considerable time. The ball, in
fact, does not touch the water and the latter remains only slightly
warmed, until the temperature of the ball falls below a certain point,
when it comes in contact with the water and violent ebullition ensues.
This phenomenon is a remarkable instance of the so-called “ spheroidal
state” of water; and is really attributable to a repulsive force, dis
covered by Sir William Crookes, which occurs when a hot body is
brought very near to a cold one,—-the same force, in fact, that moves
the vanes of Crookes’ radiometer.
For his own part, however, the speaker did not believe that any
explanations of this sort could account for the phenomena of the Fire
Walk, inasmuch as these, if established, seemed to be essentially
psychical; for they depended for success on the mental state of par
ticular individuals on whom some supernormal power appeared to be
conferred,—analogous to the power sometimes conferred by hypnotic
suggestion, though in this case it would be auto-suggestion. This
may possibly be the true psychical basis of that faith which can
“quench the violence of ﬁre,” and which has not any necessary
connection with a particular form of religion.
MR. F. W. H. MYERs observed that there seemed to him to be an
important difference between the physiological results brought about
by suggestion, which meant the stimulation of normal powers, and the
phenomena described in Mr. Lang’s paper. If this explanation were
to be applied to the case of the feet of those who walked on the hot
stones, one would have to assume that suggestion constantly renewed
the sole of the foot, which was constantly being destroyed by the ﬁre.
The suggestion would have to be exercised instantly, and on a very
large scale, to produce the effects reported.
MR. F. W. THURsTAN said that he had witnessed the ﬁre pheno
mena of D. D. Home, and had also seen similar performances several
times on the part of a medium named Hopcroft. He had seen the
latter go up to a ﬁre-place, take out red-hot coals from it, and offer
DI;c., 1899.] General Meeting. 14'9
them to the persons present. When entranced, he used to hold them
for four or ﬁve minutes in his hand. As a boy, this medium had been
constantly mesmerised and made anaesthetic by suggestion ; he was
then often kept in a trance all day long. Later he became a trance
medium, and was constantly in trances. He ended his life at last in
an asylum.
MR. F. W. PERCIvAL also testiﬁed to the performances with ﬁre of
D. D. Home. He said that he had seen Home clear away the black
coals from the front of a ﬁre, get out a red-hot coal from the back and
put it in his hair, which was ﬂuify and light. It remained there for
some seconds, after which Mr. Percival examined the hair and could
ﬁnd no trace of burning in it.
DR. ABRAHAM WALLACE observed that in occult books, alterations in
the interstellar ether had been suggested as the cause of such phenomena.
MR. MYERs suggested that they might be due to forces somewhat
analogous to the imaginary “Demons of Maxwell.” The late Professor
Clark Maxwell, as was well known, had suggested the conception of
imaginary “Demons,” whose function it was to keep up the energy
of the cosmos, which was constantly being dissipated by its tempera
ture tending to become equalised everywhere. The “ Demons” are
imagined to keep the hot molecules apart from the cold ones, and so
prevent the equalisation of temperature.
A GRNTLRMAN asked if D. D. Home’s power could be put down to
heredity, and if he had ever walked over or through a ﬁre.
THE CHAIRMAN believed that both questions should be answered in
the negative.
PRoFEssoR W. F. BARRETT then read “ A Further Paper on the So
called Divining Rod,” which it is hoped will appear in the next Part of
the Proceedings. He said that his general conclusion, based on a study
of all the evidence which had come under his notice, was that for deep
wells,—say, over 100 or 200 feet,—he would unhesitatingly back the
opinion of a good geologist ; but for comparatively shallow wells,—say,
from 10 to 50 feet,—he would as unhesitatingly back a good dowser.
After stating the conditions that were necessary to make experiments
with a dowser really evidential, he described in detail a series of experi
ments carried out under his own directions in boring for water at
spots indicated through the divining rod by the dowser Stone, in a
mountainous region in the county VVicklow, four miles from Bray.
After Stone had gone, a country gentleman, Mr. J. H. Jones, of VVater
ford, who had had soIne success as an amateur dowser, was asked by
Professor Barrett to try over the same ground. He did this, with no
knowledge of what had been done by Stone, and came practically to the
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DI1:c.,1b‘99.
same conclusions. Five different borings were then made, and in every
case the predictions of the dowsers were completely veriﬁed. The
account of these experiments was illustrated by some excellent dia
grams and plans of the ground and borings.
Professor Barrett spoke next of experiments tried to test whether
a dowser, when blindfolded, would indicate through the movement of
his rod the same spots as when he could see the ground. He said that
he himself had not been successful in such experiments, but a good
many successes had been recorded by others; the experimenters,
however, had not always realised the necessity of avoiding giving
unconscious indications to the dowser. He then described some recent
trials of the divining rod made at his request in ﬁnding minerals in
Somersetshire; these have been carefully reported on by Mr. E.
Westlake, who superintended the operations, which on the whole
proved successful. On the other hand, in a series of experiments
carried out by Colonel Taylor in trying to detect the whereabouts of
hidden coins, the successes of the dowser were not more than chance
might have produced. The reasons for success in the former oases
(ﬁnding water and mineral lodes) and non-success in the latter are
fully discussed in the paper, which time did not permit the author to
give except in brief abstract.
CASES.
G. 263. Auditory.
This case comes to us through the American Branch of the
Society. Dr. Hodgson writes of it:—
The following account was sent to me by Miss Lilian Whiting on August
8th, 1899; a few sentences in further explanation of the case being embodied
in it a few days later. Miss Whiting has had other psychical experiences,
and—besides many communications through Mrs. Piper’s trance purporting
to come from Miss Kate Field, who died in May, 1896,—has received her
self many impressions apparently coming from Miss Field since the latter’s
death, some of which have been independently corroborated by statements
through Mrs. Piper’s trance. The following incident will probably interest
even those of our readers who may be disposed to take the view that
nothing was involved more than Miss Whiting’s subliminal consciousness.
Other evidence, however, some of which I shall publish in my next Report
on Mrs. Piper, leads me to the conclusion that Miss Whiting does actually
receive communications directly from Miss Field, and I think the case
which follows may be an instance of these.
Kate Field’s Washingtmi was a weekly journal well known in the United
States, founded and edited by Miss Field during the years 1890495, Miss
Whiting has been writing a biography of Miss Field. R. H.
DIa:c., 1899.] Cases. 151
Miss Whiting’s account is as follows :—
Between 2 and 3 a.m., August 4th. Kate wakened me, speaking to
me excitedly about a “letter of Lowell’s” to her. All was confused and
rapid, but at last I caught clearly: “In K. F.’s W.—in my Washington,
Lilian; look in my Wash.inghm.” Then I vaguely recalled that Lowell
had written her a letter in re International Copyright, which she had
published in her journal, and which I had already included in her
biography, so I replied to her: “Yes, darling, I know-—the letter is in
the book. It’s all right.” '
Again an excited and rapid speaking, of which I only caught here and
there a word, but—partly from impression, and almost impulsion—I rose,
went out into my parlour, turned on the electric light, and took the ﬁve
bound volumes of her K. F. ’s W. down from my shelves. Half automatically
I seemed to be guided (for I had totally forgotten its existence) to a letter
that Lowell wrote to her in 1879, when he was American Minister to Spain—
writing from Madrid, and she in London—and which, on his death, she had
published in her Washington.
Miss Field had been engaged in organising a festival at Stratford-on
Avon for the beneﬁt of the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre, and had written
to Mr. Lowell asking if he would not write an original poem for her to recite
on that occasion. His reply was most interesting, relating the obstacles
that repelled the Muses, and saying that he was the more sorry not to meet
her wish, as he had a favour to ask of her,—a request that she would send
him her book called Ten Days in Spain. Dr. Westland Marston was then
invited to write the poem desired, and Miss Field recited it, opening the'
festival on Shakespeare’s birthday. As the original letter was not among
Miss Field’s MSS., and as I had totally forgotten it (I don’t, even now, recall
seeing it, though I must have at the time), this very important letter would
have been left out of her biography, had she not thus called me and led me
to it. There was barely time to get [it] in before the ﬁrst casting of the proofs.
I went with it myself out to the University Press the next morning to see
where I could now introduce it in the part of proofs not yet cast—as I
couldn’t even delay for the mail. Miss Field’s waking me, —her urgent and
excited and forcible manner and words, —were just as real to me as would
have been [those] of some friend in this world coming to my bedside in the
night. L.W.
L. 1118. Dream.
The following account of a veridical dream was sent to us by
Professor A. Alexander, of Rio de Janeiro, enclosed in a letter to Mr.
Myers, dated July 2nd, 1899. Professor Alexander writes concerning
the case :—
Together with this letter I forward you a veridical dream case. The
informants are my neighbours, and I am already intimate with them. Senr.
Emilio Blum was educated at Paris; he served as a colonel during the
revolt, and is now engaged in business in Rio de Janeiro. I am not quite
satisﬁed as to the date of the dream: Done Maria do Carmo was at ﬁrst
152 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. [DsC.,1899.
uncertain, and we cannot be sure that the knowledge that the accident
happened on the 27th of April did not inﬂuence her in ﬁxing it. The depo
sitions, which are otherwise quite reliable, prove that about the time of the
accident. and before any news of it had reached the Blum family, some
intimation of Dr. Garnier’s mishap was conveyed to Dona Maria in a
dream. The children were not hurt, as the horses stopped as soon as
they reached home. . . . A. ALEXANDER
Professor Alexander describes the incident as follows :—
The following apparent instance of telepathic clairvoyance occurred
recently in Rio de Janeiro among people well known to the collector of the
case. The statements of the witnesses having been made with due care,
they may be accepted as reliable.
Senr. Emilio Blum and his family formerly resided at Florianopolis, the
capital of the State of Santa Catharina, and were on terms of friendship with
a certain Dr. Garnier, of that town.
In the month of April of this year Senr. Blum’s wife, Dona Maria do
Carmo, was in a delicate state of health, and was much subject to insomnia
and confused dreaming. On the night presumed to have been that of the
27th, she fell asleep only after 12 o’clock, and dreamt of her former medical
attendant. Her statement is the following :—
“ Rio, June 13th, 1899.
“ I declare that on the night between the 27th and the 28th of April of
the present year, I dreamt that Dr. Garnier, who was our family doctor when
we lived at Florianopolis, had fallen in alighting from a carriage, and had
been much hurt. I had this dream between 1 and 2 o’clock in the morning,
and on awaking at 7 on the morning of the 28th, being much impressed* by
it, I related it to my husband.
(Signed) “ MARIA Do CARMo F. BLU1\I.”
So far the dream, which was a distressful one, might well have been
attributed to the lady’s state of health ; but on the 2nd of May her mother,
Dona Thomazia, arrived from Santa Catharina and informed them that Dr.
Garnier had really met with a serious carriage accident towards the end of
April. Of this she now gives a written account :—
“Rio de Janeiro, June 14111, 1899.
“I declare that while I was yet in Florianopolis [the following incident
occurred] : [the horses of] a carriage containing children ran away, the
coachman not being on the box. Just at that time Dr. Garnier, accom
panied by Father Leite, was driving in another carriage to visit the parents
of the said children. On seeing the children’s carriage with the runaway
horses, he alighted with the intention of saving them, and was thrown aside,
it is supposed, against the bank [and stunned], some time elapsing before he
recovered his senses. If I am not mistaken, this occurred in the afternoon
of the 27th of April of this year. Dr. Garnier was to have embarked with
* The Portuguese word “ impressionada ” means emotionally impressecl.—A.A.
Dnc., 1899.] Cases. 153
me for Rio de Janeiro, and did not do so owing to this accident. I started
for Rio on the 30th of April, and arrived here on the 2nd of May. My son
in-law, having come to fetch me on board, asked after various persons in
Santa Catharina, among others Dr. Garnier, with whom he is friendly. I
then told him of the accident, of which he was ignorant. On arriving home
my daughter, Maria do Carmo Blum, related to me, more or less in the
terms of the above declaration. the experience of her dream. It was only
then that she was informed by me that her dream was veridical.
Si ned “THoMAzIA no VALLR FRAoozA.”
g
Dr. Garnier, who arrived in Rio at a later date, gives a similar account
of the above accident :—
“ Rio, June 11th-, 1899.
“ On the 27th of the month of April, 1899, in Florianopolis (capital of
Santa Catharina) [I], the undersigned, accompanied by Father Joao Nepo
muceno Manfredo Leite, was driving between ﬁve and six o’clock in the
afternoon on a professional visit to the residence of Senr. Dr. Hercilio
Pedro da Luz when I saw at some distance behind me a carriage with
runaway horses, containing six children and without a coachman, coming in
the same direction that we were travelling. In attempting to jump out and
save the children, I fell and lost consciousness the result of a concussion of
the brain. In this state I was carried home, and became aware of what had
happened only on the following day. I received no other hurt but this and
some slight bruises of no consequence.
(Signed) “DR. RoDoLPHo BENEvENUTo GARNIER.”
Senr. Blum thus corroborates his wife’s deposition :
“ Rio de Janeiro, June 14th, 1899.
“ I, the undersigned, declare that on the morning of the 28th of April of
the present year my wife, under a profound impression, related to me her
dream above referred to. In order to calm her, I told her not to attach any
importance to it, [saying] that it was nothing more than a dream. I aﬂirm
that we knew of Dr. Garnier’s accident only through my mother-in-law, who
arrived here on the 2nd of May. (Signed) “ EMILIo BLUM "
Dona Maria do Carmo Blum believes that her dream took place
immediately after falling asleep. She thinks it likely that she awoke from
it, but is not sure on this point. Her vision was a confused one: she did
not see the carriage with the children ; Dr. Garnier seemed to be in a kind
of cart the drives a Victoria) ; there were horses ; there were bandages to be
applied to the doctor. It is said that these were in reality applied.
For the date of the dream the lady herself is responsible. After some
hesitation and discussion, she became convinced that it occurred on the
night immediately following the accident. No notes were taken on the
occasion.
The distance that separates Florianopolis from Rio is approximately
400 nautical miles.
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEo.,1899.
Questioned as to whether she had had any other similar experiences,
Dona Maria replied that about the beginning of this year she had dreamed
confusedly of a sick child and of ﬂowers and people in mourning. This she
thinks might have been premonitory, for shortly afterwards, onFebruary
18th, 1899, a little nephew of hers died in Santa Catharina.
Although quite willing to furnish the above evidence, Dona Maria is in
general averse to subjects bearing on spiritism.
Professor Alexander has sent us the original depositions of the
witnesses, written in Portuguese, with translations, kindly furnished
by himself, which he has incorporated into his narrative.
G. 264. Apparitions.
We have received the two following accounts of a “haunt” at a
College in one of the older Universities. \Ve are requested not to
publish the names of persons and places.
I.—.Fr0m Mr. A.
[The foot-notes to Mr. A’s account are given as the result of questions
put to him by two experienced members of the S.P.R., who investigated
the case.]
' In Lent term 1898*, I had gone to bed unusually late, about half-past one
in the morning, and shortly after getting into bed I heard a noise in my
sitting-room and called out “ Who is there?” Receiving no answer, I got out
of bed and went into my sitting-room. It was a moonlight night, the blind
was up, and there was stilla ﬁre burning in the grate. I saw a ﬁgure stand
ing by the window with its back turned to me, which, as soon as I entered the
sitting-room, turned round and walked towards me. It was about the middle
height and loosely dressed, as I thought in grey. The face was a long clean
shaven one, cadaverous and at the same time pitiful in expression, and I am
perfectly conﬁdent when I say that I could see right through the ﬁgure and
distinctly saw the bars on the window through it. I was naturally excess
ively frightened and for a second could do or say nothing. Then I turned
tail and bolted into my bedroom and locked the door and shortly afterwards
I heard a shutﬁing noise as oi" some one leaving my room and passing along
the passage. I then lit a candle and went into my sitting-room again and
saw nothing. I was in a streaming perspiration and yet felt icy cold and
my reﬂection in the glass showed my face as white as a sheet. I have
- not been able to ﬁnd any explanation of the apparition and did not see
anything more of it, (though several other men in college had similar experi
ences of it) until Milclmelmas term 1898. Then came my second experience.
I had been working till eleven and then went to bed. Some time in the
night, I cannot say exactly when, I was awakened by a sound in my room
(I should mention I had changed to different rooms on the same staircase,
on the second instead of on the third ﬂoor) and I lit a candle and went into my
sitting-room to see who was there ; for some moments I saw nobody and was
* Mr. A. afterwards corrected the date to the “ Michaelmas term, 1897.”
Dsc., 1899.] Cases. 155
going back to bed when I caught sight of a ﬁgure standing in a corner of my
room. It was exactly similar to the one I had seen before, three terms
previously ; the face had the same pitiful and mournful-looking expression,
and it advanced towards me holding out its hands as if it wanted something.
I remember no more ; I was terribly frightened and fainted right away. I
was found by my scout* the next morning, when he came to call me, lying in
front of my ﬁreplace with the extinguished candle on the ﬂoor. I went to
the Principal and told him the circumstances, but he was inclined to treat it
as a joke.'1'
I can give no explanation of it and can only say that it was a ghastly
experience. I knew that a former undergraduate committed suicide on this
staircase,j,r about twenty years ago, but do not know if there be any connec
tion between this and the apparition I saw. Other men have had similar
visitations and one man had to go down three weeks before the end of term
through being so much troubled by it. I was genuinely and thoroughly
frightened and am perfectly convinced it was a supernatural apparition that
I saw. The idea of the ghost is looked upon far too seriously in the
College for any one to play a practical joke, and I can only say that another
such visitation would cause me to migrate elsewhere.
II.—From Mr‘. B.
I am not quite sure about actual dates, etc., but my ﬁrst experience was
one night in the ﬁfth week of the October term, 1897. I was a Freshman, and
had the ground ﬂoor room on No. 3 staircase. I had been to sleep for some
time and woke up with a very uncomfortable feeling that something was
wrong. After sitting up and rubbing my eyes the feeling resolved itself
into the conviction that some one was looking in [at] my bedroom window. I
almost laughed at the idea, for though the window was just over the bed, the
room being very small, there was a thick curtain drawn across it, and I put
it down to imagination and tried to go to sleep again. Failing to do so, I
resolved to satisfy myself and, getting up, drew the curtain, and was very
much startled to actually see a face gazing straight in. The face was really
all I could see, and I think had that been the only time I saw it, that I
could not have described it, for it appeared to vanish after I had looked at
it for a very short time. I lit a candle, and after thinking some time, came
to the natural conclusion that it was somebody who had got into the
churchyard immediately outside (though I afterwards found that this
would be a very diﬂicult matter). I looked at my watch, as I always do
when I wake in the night, and found it was just after 2 o’clock a.m. I said
nothing about it to any one, and soon was quite satisﬁed in my mind that it
was nothing mysterious.
However, two or three nights afterwards, I woke again with the same
uncanny feeling (and to avoid repetition I might add that the appearances
were always accompanied with this horrible or at least very uncomfortable
* Who conﬁrmed this to a member of the S.P.R. in December, 1898.
1- He is, however, very reluctant to permit any investigations.
1 Upon consideration the narrator is now doubtful about the identity of the
staircase.
156 Journal of Society for Psychiwl Resewrch. [Dsc..1899
feeling); and sitting up again saw the face, now at the end of my bed,
gazing straight at me with a very sad expression. I noticed this particularly,
as I was able to look at it ﬁxedly for what seemed quite a long time, and
this time I observed too that it was possessed by the ﬁgure of a man, which
was too indeﬁnite to describe accurately, but he had on what looked like a
white front or ruﬂle. The face was rather thin, clean-shaved, and with
clear-cut features. I also noticed that the hair was short and thin. Perhaps
I did not notice all this on this occasion, but I ﬁnd it diﬂicult to detach from
each appearance what I actually saw each time. I reached for my matches
and struck a light and when my eyes got accustomed to the light, there was
nothing there.
Now, nobody could pass out of my room without brushing past me, on
account of the size of the room; neither, to my knowledge, is there any
other exit.
After this the same thing happened two or three times, and I was able to
see that the ﬁgure appeared to be dressed in knee-breeches and stockings of
a dark texture, and each time all it did was to gaze sadly at me. I was
never able to challenge it,-—I suppose on account of fright,—and I main
tained silence on the question until a more curious thing still happened, and
this I think was one night in the seventh week of that term.
You will notice that up to this time %it was nothing but a visual
experience, unaccompanied by noise, and this was gradually tending to
restore my nerve, and I slept for several nights without being aroused.
The appearances were always at about the same time.
One night in the seventh week of term, I think, I was awakened in the
same curious manner, and sitting up thought I heard a slight noise in my
sitting-room. I listened, and it seemed to continue, as though a scuﬂie was
going on, but I certainly felt the noise rather than heard it.
What I mean by this is that the noise seemed to be more suggested to
me than audible, but whatever it was I reached out of bed and pushed open
the door, which I could not reach from the bed, and looked into the other
room. It was moonlight, and the light was coming' in from the quad,
although the blind was drawn. The noise was still going on in a dark
corner of the room (granted it may have been rats !) ; but as I looked, two
ﬁgures emerged from the dark into the patch of light which came through
the window. Tney appeared to be ﬁghting ; I can only so describe it. It
was just as though I was watching the enactment of a duel, for though I
could see no weapons, yet the ﬁgures were apart, and one, for certain, had
his hand towards the other !
There was no imagination about this ! I had to watch it in spite of my
self ! And one ﬁgure was, I feel sure, the ﬁgure of my previous visitant.
I don’t know how short or long the time was in which the “scuﬂle”
lasted, but presently there was a slight thud, and then my sitting-room door
shut audibly, as though some one had gone out. Then I jumped out of
bed, and striking a match, inspected the room, but there was nothing to be
seen. Naturally I came to the conclusion that some of the men were
playing a joke upon me, and in the morning 1 went to every one in turn
])I:c., 1899.] Cases. 157
to know if they had been to my room, as I had had enough of it. Every one
emphatically disclaimed having done so, and a meeting was convened to
consider the matter. I am sure from that time that nobody had part in it,
and it was then that I was told of the supposed ghost.
I did not stay in my rooms at night after that. Two or three of us sat
up for two nights, and on the second night, sitting up in the room
overhead, we all heard the same sequence of noises, viz., the scuﬂie, the
thud, and the door shutting, and this was at the usual time: ﬁve or six
minutes past two. We kept watch on the window and the door of my
rooms from the window upstairs ; it was possible to do so ; and nobody came
out, and on immediately descending thither we could ﬁnd nothing unusual.
That day I came home with my nerves very much upset, and since then
have occupied rooms on another staircase. Several different men have had
experiences of a slighter nature, especially on No. 4 staircase.
I have given my history of the case as nearly as possible, and hope there
may yet be some explanation.
Mr. B. has been more or less ill continuously since his experience,
and this fact supports the supposition that the hallucinations may
have been merely subjective. He has now left the University, and
his illness has prevented further inquiries.
We are told that it has proved impossible to trace the tradition of
previous “haunting” to anything deﬁnite. Mr. A. gave the name of
a clergyman, a former member of the College, who told him that
disturbances had occurred in his time; but on being written to, this
gentleman declared that he knew nothing about the matter.
It must be noted that the doors of neither Mr. A.’s nor Mr. B.’s
rooms were locked when the ﬁgures appeared to them, and that these
ﬁgures seem usually to have departed in an audible and normal manner.
One of the men who sat up with Mr. B. to watch for the “ghost ”
gives an account of the noises heard,—which, it will be seen, is much
vaguer than Mr. B.’s,—as follows :—
Jane 7th, 1899.
One evening in Michaelmas Term, ’97, four of us sat up in the room
above [Mr. B.’s] to listen for the ghost. At one time we thought we heard
something like muﬂled footsteps moving about in the room below, but the
ﬁre was roaring up the chimney, and we could not clearly distinguish the
two sounds. '
Later in the evening one of us thought he heard the door below shut, but
on opening the door of the room we were in and listening on the stairs, we
could hear nothing.
In reality there was only one sound which I cannot understand. As we
sat listening I heard a very faint sound, like a singing in my ear or the ring
ing of a distant bell,—I do not mean several strokes of a bell, but a faint
continuous sound, which I heard only with my left ear. I remarked upon
it, but added that I was sure none of the others would hear it, as it was so
158 .lowmmt of b'oci.ety/_fu1' 1’sy/cluicut Reseu/rclu [Dsc.. 1899.
faint. However, they all said they heard the same, and I endeavoured to
locate it, but in vain. I listened close to the ﬁre, the windows, the doors,
and the lamp, and heard the same sound, equally faint, the whole time.
Only when I moved into the bedroom I was unable to hear it ; but on return
ing to the sitting-room heard it again just as before.
CORRE SPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for dpinions expressed by Correspondents.]
The following letter has been received from Dr. A. Colles about
the cases contributed by Mrs. A. W. Verrall to the November number
of the Journal :—
116, King IIenry’s Road, S. Hampstead, November 3rd, 1899.
The account in the November Journal S.P.R. of Mrs. Verrall’s pre
monitions by means of a watch-like ticking have interested me, for the
reason that, for more than twenty years, I have myself very frequently
heard a ticking exactly such as Mrs. Verrall describes, so that I have
jestingly declared that I was haunted by the ghost of a watch. The
difference between us is, however, great, as I have never been able to
trace any connection between the sound and any event of interest. It
has followed me in various changes of residence. The sound occurs for
periods of from ten to thirty minutes, and, after frequent recurrences, is
heard no more for perhaps several months. I have again and again proved
absolutely that the sound was distinct from that of any timepiece or watch
which was in the room, but have never been able to account for its occur
rence in any way. The sound is rapid and faint, pausing for a few seconds
from time to time, and then going on again. Query, are Mrs. Verrall’s_
instances coincidental or truly premonitory? If, as I gather, she has
never heard it without its being followed by some occurrence of a serious
nature, it would seem that they are in some way of the latter character.
It would be of interest to have the point made quite clear whether she
has ever heard it without some sequent event. A. CoLLEs
In answer to questions as to whether the hearing of such sounds could
possibly be due to any state of the ear, Dr. Colles writes further :
116, King Henry’s Road, N.W., .Notember 9th, 1899.
In reply to your note of 8th inst., I may say that I know of no condition
of the car which would give rise to the sound I mentioned. A very rapidly
ticking watch rolled up in cotton wool would give the nearest idea of the
sound, but it is more rapid than any watch I have come across. When
ﬁrst heard it sounded always as if it came from a particular cupboard in
my study, but subsequently came now from one point, now from another.
It is many months now since I have heard it, but similarly long intervals
have occurred in the past. On several occasions I made every investigation
into it which suggested itself to me, but entirely failed to determine its
source‘ A. CoLLEs.
Dsc.,1899.] Suppleme'nta'ry L'lb'rary Catalogue. 159
Dr. Colles’ letters having been sent to Mrs. Verrall for perusal,
she writes :—
5, Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge, .November 11th, 1899.
To the Editor.
In answer to the question at the end of Dr. Colles’ ﬁrst letter, which
your courtesy has permitted me to see, I should like to summarise the
occasions on which I have heard the “ticking” described in the Journal
for November. They may be grouped under four heads :—
(a) In 1888 the ticking persisted, at irregular intervals, for three weeks,
at a time when there was great anxiety among the members of my house
hold, unknown to me, concerning the health of a child. The ticking ceased
when I was made aware of the precarious condition of the child.
(b) In 1891. for three or four months, the ticking was heard by me at
irregular intervals, but desisted after the occurrence of a death.
(0) In July, 1892, I heard and recorded the ticking, as described in
the Journal for November, on the night on which a friend was taken
seriously ill.
(01) In September, 1898, I heard and recorded the ticking thirty-two
hours before the alarming accident to my sister, described in the Jour1ml.
On no other occasions have I heard it.
I did once hear a death-watch when I was very young. The sound made
by the death-watch is louder and more regular than the “ ticking” ; I am
certain that the sound which I have been describing is not made by a beetle,
nor by any clock or watch. That it is telepathic or premonitory I should
not like to say without more evidence than there is at present, but as it
has apparently always been veridical, I thought it worth noting.
I have often wondered how the superstition about the death-watch
originated; there seems no obvious reason why that particular sound
should be thought to announce death. But if, as Dr. Golles’ experience
suggests, there are persons liable to hear a ticking sound, it seems possible
that in some cases mental disturbance, anxiety, or alarm, too indeﬁnite
to be recognised by the consciousness, may manifest itself in this form of
hallucination, and thus the idea of impending misfortune might become
associated with a ticking sound.—Yours truly, M DE G VERRALL
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last list (JoURNAL for December, 1898).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
BINET (Dr. Alfred), The Psychology of Reasoning. From the
French by A. G. White, B.Sc................................. ..Chicago, 1899*
CHATToCK (Prof. A. P.), Science and Ghosts. (l'he Magnet, Vol. I.,
Nos. 5 and 6) ......................................................... ..Bristol, 1899+
" Presented by the Publishers. ’r Presented by the Author.
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Reseu/r'clL. [Dnc., 1899.
DUPoTET DE SENNAvoY (Baron), An Introduction to the Study of
Animal Magnetism................................................. ..London, 18381
JAMEs (Prof. William), Talks to Teachers....................... ..Lrmdon, 1899
SEYBERT CoMMIssIoN oN SPIRITUALIsM (Report of).... ..Philadelphia, 1887
VINCENT (R. H.), The Elements of Hypnotism. 2nd Edit...L0'nd0'n,, 1895
DELANNE (Gabriel), L’Evolution Animique ......................... ..Par1ls, 1897
_- L’ Ame est Immortelle............................................ ..Paris, 1899
GYEL (Dr. E.), L’ Etre Subconscient................................ ..Pam's, 1899
BEITRAGE zUR GRENzWIssENsCHAFT. “Gessellschaft fiir wissenchaft
liche Psychologie " in Miinchen................................... .Jena, 1899*
FALCoMER (Prof. Dr. M. T.), Fiir oder gegen den Spiritismusleipzig, 1899*
GAJ (Dr. Gustav von), Aus der geheimnissvollen Welt...... ..A_qmm, 1898+
MULLER. (Rudolph), Naturwissenchaftliche Seelenforschung...Leip/cig, 1897+
—— Das Hypnotische Hellseh-Experiment im Dienste der Natur
wissenschaftlichen Seelenforschung....................... ..Leipzig, N.D.'l'
OCHoRoWIez (Prof. Dr. J .), Magnetismus und Hypnotismus..Leipzir, 1897*
REICH (Dr. Edward), Physiologie des Magischen. 2nd Edit..Leipzig, 1899
ERMACoRA (Dr. G. B.), La Telepatia............................... ..Pa.dua, 1898*
IN IVIEMoRIAM, Dr. G. B. ERMACoRA .............................. ..Padua, 1899*
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
ADAMs (W. H. Davenport), Witch, Warlock and Magician....L0ndon, 1889
“AscroR,” THE BRIDGE oF LIGHT.................................. ..London, 1899
BEAvEN (E. W.), Tales of the Divining Rod ................... ..London, 1899
CoMPToN (Theodore), The Life of the Rev. John Clowes.... ..London, 1898*
EDWARDs (D.), Animal Magnetism Explained ................... ..L0na'on, 1789
FEILDING (Alice), Faith Healing and Christian Science ....... ..London, 1899*
GooDRIGH-FREER (A.), Essays on Psychical Research........ ..London, 1899
and the MARqusss oF BuTE, The Alleged Haunting of B—
House.................................................................. ..London, 1899
HARTMANN (FRANz, M.D.), Magic, White and Black.......... ..London, 1886
HoCKEN (DR. T. M.), An Account of the Fiji Fire Ceremony (Trans.
of the New Zcal(l/ltd Institute, Vol. XXXI.) ........................... .. 1898+
IAMBLICHUs, Mysteries of the Egyptians. Translated by Thomas
Taylor. 2nd Edit............................................... ...-..Lm1d0n, 1895
“LIGHT,” Bound Volume for 1898................................ ..London, 1898§
MACKENzIE (Alex. F. S. A. Scot.), The Prophecies of the Brahan Seer,
with Introductory Chapter by Andrew Lang................ ..Stirling, 1899
STANLEY (Hiram M.), Psychology for Beginners.... ..Chicag0, U. 8.11., 1899*
SWEDENBoRG (Emanuel), Documents Concerning the Life and
Character of. Collected, translated, and annotated by R. L. Tafel,
A.M., Ph.D. Vols. I. and II. (Vol. II. in two Parts) London, 1875—77
WELL BELovED oF THE FATHER (The)........................... ..London, 1899*
YEATs (W. B.), Ireland Bewitched (Contemporar;i/ Review, September,
1899) ................................................................... ..London, 1899
* Presented by the Publishers. I Presented by Mr. A. Wassell.
1' Presented by the Author. § Presented by the London Spiritualist Alliance.
No. CLXV.-—VoL. IX. JANuARY, 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
CoNTENTS. use
New Member and Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I6I
Meeting of the Counc1l .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I6I
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 162
Premature Generalisations about Telepathy . . . _ . . . . . . . . .. .. I69
Correspondence .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I76
NEW MEMBER AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Jllembers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
VICE-PRES IDENT.
PRoFRssoR J. H. HYsLoP, Columbia University, New York, N.Y., U.S.A. '
MEMBER AND ASSOCIATES.
ANDEN, HARoLD A., Clarendon House, Woodford Green, Essex.
BoNAzzA, CARLo, Hotel Cavour, 5, Via Proconsolo, Florence.
CARXsEWV, MIss RosAMUND, 18, York-street Chambers, Bryanston-sq.,W.
DAvY, MRs. E, M., 43, Clanricarde-gardens, London, W.
DUNsMURE, MRs., 50, Harrington-gardens, London, S.W.
MoRToN, MRs., 1, Old Brighton, Monkstown, co. Dublin.
Turner, Alfred E., Major General, C. B., 21,Tite-st., London, S.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
GRAHAM, T. B., 26, West 50th~street,_ New York, N.Y.
HUIDEKoPEE, MRs. ARTHUR C., Meadville, Pa.
PARKER, EDWARD W., 78, Montgomery-street, Boston, Mass.
RoBINsoN, MRs. C. B., 315, W. Broadway, Louisville, Ky.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A meeting of the Council was held on December 15th, at the
Rooms of the Society, 19, Buckingham-street, W.C. The PREsIDENT
occupied the chair. There were also present, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr.
Sydney C. Scott, Professor H. Sidgwiek, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr.
J. G. Smith, and Dr. A. Wallace.
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN.,1900.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
On the proposal of the President, seconded by Professor Sidgwick,
Professor J. H. Hyslop, of Columbia University, New York, was
elected a Vice-President of the Society.
One new Member and six new Associates were elected, and the
election of four new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Names and addresses are given above.
The resignation of one Member and fourteen Associates, who, from
various causes, desired to withdraw from the Society at the end of the
year, was accepted.
The Council recorded with regret the decease of Maria Lady
Vincent, who had been an Associate of the Society almost from its
commencement, and also of Mrs. Crawley, who had been an Associate
for several years.
Some presents to the Library were on the table, for which a vote
of thanks was passed to the donors.
The names of the Members of Council who retire by rotation at
the end of the year were read over. The Assistant Secretary was
desired to send out the necessary Notices for the Annual Meeting of
the members of the Society, to be held at Westminster Town Hall,
on Friday, January 26th, 1900, at 3 p.m.
Various other matters of business having been attended to, the
Council agreed that its next meeting should be at Westminster
Town Hall, at the close of the Annual Meeting of Members, on
January 26th, 1900.
GENERAL ME ETING.
The 102nd General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Westminster Town Hall on Friday, December 15th, at 8.30 p.m. ;
PRomassoR SIDGWICK in the chair.
PRoFEssoR OLIvER LoDGE gave an account of some experiments
designed and executed by PRoFRssoR J. H. HYsmP, of the Columbia
University, New York, in illustration of the communications received
during the trance condition of Mrs. Piper.
As a prelude, and as illustrating Professor Hyslop’s gradually
developed attitude towards the Piper phenomena, Professor Lodge
read some extracts from the Journal S.P.R., for November, 1899
(pp. 132, 133), where some portions of an article which appeared
in an American periodical, The New World, are reproduced. He
next read some extracts from Dr. Hodgson’s report on Mrs. Piper,
Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXXIII. (Vol. XIII.), selecting episodes
JAN., 1900.] General Meeting. 1 63
on pp. 373, 338, 345, and some comments or remarks on pp. 348, 396
and 391, with the object of reminding the audience of the kind of
apparently trivial but really evidential incidents frequently quoted by
the Piper sitters ; and he then proceeded to read the Introduction to
Professor Hyslop’s record.
In this introduction he explains the object and the method of his
experiments, about which there was nothing supernormal at all. A
telegraph line was arranged between two buildings of the Columbia
University, and a couple of friends or acquaintances were taken
independently to each end of the line, only one of them knowing who
was at the other end; and this one (the communicator) was to send
messages, at ﬁrst vague but increasing in deﬁniteness, while the other
person was to guess until he could guess correctly and assuredly who
it was that was at the other end of the line. The replies and guesses
were likewise telegraphed by an assistant stationed with the receiver,
for the guidance of the sender. Professor Hyslop’s objects in carrying
out an extensive series of this kind of experiment are thus stated by
himself :—
I may now summarise the several objects of the whole series of experi
ments. The ﬁrst of these objects was not intimated to any one. I was
extremely careful not to breathe it to any one, not even to my assistants, so
that the results might be entirely spontaneous and without the inﬂuence of
suggestion from me.
I. To test the extent to which intelligent persons would spontaneously
select trivial and unimportant incidents for the purpose of identiﬁcation——
that is, incidents that were not connected, or not necessarily connected,
with the main habits of their lives.
II. To test the accuracy of the identiﬁcation in connection with both
individual and collective incidents, and especially to test how slight or how
deﬁnite the incident had to be in order to suggest rightly the person it was
intended to represent.
III. To test the success and personal assurance of the receiver of the
messages in guessing who is the true sender in spite of some messages that
are misleading or even false, but the bulk of which involves suﬂicient
cumulative facts to overcome the natural scepticism and confusion caused
by incoherences and contradictions.
IV. To study the sources of misunderstanding that might arise under
such circumstances when one party was ignorant of the intentions of the
other, and the causes of illusion in identiﬁcation which we can determine in
my experiments, and which are likely to occur in the Piper case.
And he proceeds :—
In regard to the ﬁrst of these objects, it is very interesting to observe the
uniformity with which perfectly intelligent persons spontaneously chose
what would generally be considered trivial incidents in order to identify
themselves. This seemed to naturally recommend itself to them, perhaps
164 Journal of Society for Psych/icat Reseumch. [Jm.,1900.
for the reason that trivial circumstances represent far more isolation than
any chosen from the main trend of life, though I noticed no consciousness
of this fact in any one. It was simply the instinctive method which every
one tended to adopt. The records show very distinctly that, if left to them
selves, men will naturally select unimportant incidents for proof of their
identity, and it is one of the most interesting features of this choice that the
individual relied wholly upon the laws of association to recall what was
wanted, after deciding on the nature of the incidents to be chosen. Very
often there were interesting illustrations of those capricious revivals in
memory of remote incidents which not only resemble so much the incidents
in the Piper sittings in triviality, but also represent the caprices and
incoherences of associative recall, intelligible to the subject on reﬂection,
but hardly so to the outside observer. At any rate, the results in this regard
completely remove all objections to the Piper phenomena from the stand
point of the triviality of the incidents chosen for identiﬁcation, and that is an
accomplishment of some worth.
On reﬂection, most persons will at once admit the superior value of such
incidents for scientiﬁc purposes ; but too often, under the a priori assump
tion—encouraged or created by a false idealism about a transcendental state
of existence—that discarnate spirits ought to show an interest in more lofty
matters, we suppose that the fact of triviality indicates a greater probability
for a mediumistic origin than for a spiritistic one. But after all, the
spiritistic problem is not at stake here and perhaps allusion to it is irrelevant,
as the real question in these experiments concerns only the place of trivial
incidents in the evidential problem. The improbability of their frequent
duplication makes them strong for purposes of proof, while what we know
in these cases about the facts in the lives of intelligent men prevents
any inferences as to the totality of the conditions in which their conscious
activity is spent. This fact is evident in the experiments here recorded,
as the persons chosen for the experiments were of the class whose intellectual
occupations and habits of mind could not be depreciated, and yet the
incidents chosen for the suggestion of personal identiﬁcation were much the
same as those with which we have to deal in the Piper case. This ﬁrst
object of the experiments, therefore, has been fully satisﬁed, and the
evidential implications of these phenomena vindicated, whatever theory we
adopt for explanation of them.
After discussing the results from the point of view of the Piper
case and the light they throw upon some diﬂiculties there met with,
for instance, with respect to :—(l) Illusions of memory and their
effect on the results. (2) Illusions of interpretation. (3) Success and
failure in identiﬁcation; he proceeds to summarise his conclusions
under the following heads, ﬁrst saying that in his opinion :
The judgment of identiﬁcation in this and the Piper case unquestionably
possesses some claim to scientiﬁc consideration, to say the very least that
can be said of it. We may not be satisﬁed with the verdict in favour of
spiritism in either case, and I do not care to enforce that conclusion ; but
JAN., 1900.] General Meeti/ng. 1 65
on any theory the signiﬁcance of the facts for some important consideration
must be recognised, and if experiments of this kind spontaneously repro
duce a record like the Piper results and sustain them, we must allow some
weight to the alleged importance of the latter in the direction of spiritism ;
since we ﬁnd that these experiments completely refute all objections from
the standpoint of triviality in the incidents, and show indubitably that we
have no right to draw any conclusions from them as to the character or
habits of mind possessed by the communicators.
SUMMARY.
The important matters of interest in these experiments and my comments
upon them may be summarised in the following manner to show the points
of comparison between them and the Piper case.
1. The spontaneous choice of trivial incidents by perfectly intelligent
communicators for the purpose of identiﬁcation.
2. The illegitimacy of inferences as to the character or mental condition
of communicators drawn from the character of the incidents chosen for
identiﬁcation.
3. Correct identiﬁcation of names from mere incidents common to two
lives, or correct judgments in regard to facts only hinted at.
4. Identiﬁcation of persons on slight but pertinent clues without cumu
lative force.
5. The establishment of assurance in regard to the communicator, in
spite of incoherence and diversions or contradictions.
6. Errors of memory on the part of “ sitters” that lead to confusion and
failure in recognition.
7. The natural differences in the personal equation affecting the choice
of incidents for identiﬁcation, as illustrated in the failure to recognise
incidents or persons.
8. Occasional liability to illusion from the element of chance, unless the
incidents become cumulative enough to overcome it.
9. Diﬂiculty and confusion in the communicator when trying to select
at once incidents for identiﬁcation.
This last feature cannot be appreciated by the reader of this record, but
could be detected only by an eye-witness of the experiments themselves.
Being a witness of them I was struck by the fact, which is also noticeable
in communications with the telephone when the party is limited in
time for his communications. The communicator’s mind being set in the
direction of speciﬁcally pertinent incidents for identiﬁcation by a particular
friend, and being limited in time for their choice, there was the interesting
mental struggle and confusion which every one can observe for himself in
the play of association endeavouring to make the right selection of incidents
for the purpose. We can imagine the situation of a discarnate spirit which
can have but a few minutes at least for communication, and probably
working under enormous ditliculties, of which we know nothing, to say
nothing of the wrench that death might give the memory, if the usual
physiological theories of the faculty are to be accepted.
166 Journal of Society for Psych/ical Research. [JAN., 1900.
Thus, on the whole, it is clear that the evidence obtained in these
experimental sittings, after scrutiny and careful examination, have
had the effect of strengthening Professor Hyslop in his general agree
ment with the hypothesis of Dr. Hodgson, namely, that the ostensible
“communicators” in the Piper trance are pretty much what they
purport to be ; and that the evidence for their identiﬁcation by sitters
is decidedly better and stronger than what is found in practice amply
suiiicient for identiﬁcation of individuals sending similar communi
cations under normal conditions.
Further, that all objections made to the triviality of identifying
messages cease to have any weight, this triviality turning out to be
instinctive and natural and suitable for the purpose, and having no
connection whatever with the main lives or pursuits or characters of
the people communicating.
The HoN. EvERARD FEILDING said that the conditions of Professor
Hyslop’s experiments were not altogether like those of Mrs. Piper’s
sittings; inasmuch as the communicator was bent on holding back
identiﬁcation for a time_—did not, moreover, assist or confuse by giving
any name, whether the true or a false one,—and because there really
always was some deﬁnite communicator to be identiﬁed, whereas a well
known hypothesis in the case of Mrs. Piper was that her secondary
personality under telepathic inﬂuence was personating relations and
friends of the sitter with the utmost unconscious cunning, and that
there was no one else “there” at all. Hence he thought that the
experiments might have been directed to seeing how far personation
was possible.
PRoFRssoR LoDGE agreed with these remarks to a considerable
extent, but pointed out that these personation experiments would
constitute a different series, and would not answer the particular
questions which Professor Hyslop had set himself to answer ; though, as
they might answer other questions, they ought to be tried.
Mr. F. PoDMORE pointed out, for the beneﬁt of those who were
not familiar with the records of Mrs. Piper’s trance utterances, that
the proof of their supernormal character did not depend upon such
elaborate experiments as those made by Professor Hyslop. Mr. Pod
more did not share Mr. Hyslop’s views as to the probable origin of
the communications; but he thought it practically certain that the
knowledge displayed by Mrs. Piper could not have been acquired by
normal means. The argument which carried most conviction to his
mind was the extraordinary superiority of Mrs. Piper to all other
mediums. If Mrs. Piper’s success was due to fraud or ingenious guess
work, it became extremely diﬂicult to explain how all previous mediums
JAm, 1900.] - General Meeting. ' - 167
for the last three generations had failed to effect a tithe of her success.
Mr. Podmore gave some illustrations from early mediumship in this
country.
Mr. F. O. S. SCHILLER pointed out that Professor Hyslop’s experi
ments opened out an extensive ﬁeld for further investigations in which
those members of the Society could share who, like himself, were
unfortunately devoid of psychic gifts. It would be interesting, e.g., to
ﬁnd out, not merely the minimal evidence suﬂicient to produce psycho
logical conviction of identity, but also the maximal evidence which
would come nearest to logical proof of identity. Similarly the possi
bilities of impersonation might be tested, and the experiments might
even be conducted in the form of a new and interesting parlour game.
Mr. HUBERT J. SWEENEY considered that the comparatively few
experiments, and the imperfect conditions under which even those had
been performed, were not suﬂicient to establish such general conclusions
as Professor Hyslop had drawn. While some of these results were
deduced from insuﬂicient data, others again were obvious, and re
quired no experimental demonstration whatever. It was, for instance,
superﬂuous to prove that the sender might exaggerate the importance
of the incidents he cited, and that as a consequence the receiver of
the message should fail to recognise his friend ; and there were many
conditions which might easily account for the mistakes and numerous
apparent errors of memory committed by the receivers. Again, the
means of communication—the instrument, its defects, etc.—as a factor
in determining the value of the results, seemed to be entirely neglected
by Professor Hyslop. Any message might easily fail to convey its full
force when sent through crude or imperfect instruments. Some of the
Professor’s conclusions, too, were seemingly inconsistent. He ﬁrst
justiﬁes the use and shows the necessity of trivial incidents as a means
of conveying identity, and afterwards shows the remarkable extent to
which the same end may be attained from the vaguest details and
most general descriptions. Identiﬁcation, apparently so simple, was
after all very diﬂicult and liable to much confusion. He (Mr. Sweeney)
attended a public séance recently at which a lady medium described
with considerable detail the departed spirits which she beheld standing
near their relatives or friends amongst her audience. Looking towards
him, she described one in his vicinity. He was struck with the remark
able accuracy of the description, and was upon the point of stating the
fact, when a lady sitting in front of him forestalled him by promptly
proclaiming the spirit to be a near relative of her own!
PRoFsssoR SIDGWICK said that he had listened with great interest
to the account of Professor Hyslop’s experiments, and thought them
168 Journal of Society for Psychtcal Research. [JAN.,1900.
_well directed, as far as he could judge, to throw light on the questions
to which they related. Before proceedmg to one or two remarks of a
critical kind which had occurred to him, he would like to say that,
though his own state of mind with regard to the explanation of
the Piper phenomena was one of suspense, he thought them quite
suﬂiciently important to justify the concentrated attention that was
actually being given to them by Dr. Hodgson and other American
investigators. In his view, no doubt, it would be necessary, before
arriving at a ﬁnal decision with regard to this evidence, to extend the
scope of the investigations and obtain phenomena from other persons.
At least, he could not himself rest such momentous conclusions as
those to which Dr. Hodgson pointed upon evidence obtained from one
medium alone. Still, in the meanwhile he thought it was important
to make the most we could, by careful and repeated consideration, of
the Piper phenomena.
Turning now to Professor Hyslop’s experiments, he would mention
two points that had occurred to him. The ﬁrst was with regard to
vagueness. It appeared to him that there was this difference between
the two cases: Professor Hyslop's communicators appeared to be
drawn from a comparatively small group of persons, most of whom
would be well acquainted with each other. In that case, statements
that might seem vague to outsiders would be really understood with
more deﬁniteness by those who received them.
Then, as regards triviality, we might presume, he thought, that
the communicators in Professor Hyslop’s experiments, though they
did not know exactly the aim of the process that they were taking
part in, would naturally be inclined to treat it as a sort of game,—
at any rate, would not be in a "cry serious mood when they made
their communications. There would therefore be nothing in their
emotional state of mind antagonistic to triviality in the incidents
selected. But the case was different in the Piper experiments. Here
phrases used by the alleged communicators certainly suggested pro
found emotion caused by the presence of friends or relations from
whom they had been parted. It seemed to him, therefore, somewhat
more surprismg in their case that this intensity and solemnity of
feeling did not exclude triviality. He mentioned these points in
order that Professor Lodge might reply, if he thought that there
was no force in such suggestions.
PRoFEssoR LoDGE said that though the incidents serving for identi
ﬁcation sounded vague to bystanders or readers of the record, yet when
they were explained from the point of view of both sender and
receiver they were perceived to be distinct enough, and to justify the
JAN., I900.] Premature Genemlisations about Telepathy. 169
leap of identiﬁcation taken upon them. And this fact he thought of
interest in connection with the Piper record, where it has been often
felt by readers or note-takers that sitters identify their relatives too
easily and fancifully ; for in Professor Hyslop’s experiments the identi
ﬁcation is often performed on still slighter grounds, often on what
would superﬁcially appear no legitimate ground at all, and yet it turns
out, when both ends of the line are catechised (as they can not be
-catechised in the real Piper case), that these incidents are perceived to
be of force adequate to support the conclusions based upon them.
Further, in answer to Professor Sidgwick’s tentative objection that
the sitters in the Hyslop experiments were only playing at identi
ﬁcation, and therefore were naturally in a more or less frivolous mood,
whereas on Dr. Hodgson’s hypothesis the Piper communicators would
be serious and emotional and not so likely to resort to trivial incidents :
Professor Lodge replied by postulating the case of a wanderer not able
to return to his home, but able to communicate with it for a few
minutes by telephone. In however strenuous and earnest a spirit he
might be—indeed, both ends of the line might be,—yet when asked to
prove his identity and overcome the dread of illusion and personation,
he would instinctively try to think of some triﬂing and absurd private
incident; and this might very likely be accepted as suﬂicient, and might
-serve as a prelude to closer and more affectionate messages which,
previous to identiﬁcation, would be out of place; and he felt bound to
-say that his own experience of the Piper sittings led him to assert that
this kind of genuinely digniﬁed and serious and appropriate message
-did ultimately in many cases come, but not until the preliminary stages
(stages beyond which some sitters seemed unable to get) were fairly
passed.
PREMATURE GENERALISATIONS ABOUT TELEPATHY.
It is often asked what conditions are most favourable for the action
-of Telepathy between the minds of livingr persons, and what can be
-done to cultivate the power. If any correct answers could be given to
these questions, the whole subject of Psychical Research would be
greatly advanced ; we may even admit that, until we can answer them,
the science must remain in a rudimentary and unsatisfactory stage,
Persons who make a small number of experiments are constantly
tempted to fancy that this or that condition is the one that is
indispensable to success; and it is true that different experimenters
~often hit on the same condition as being the most favourable one,
which suggests at ﬁrst sight that there is cumulative evidence in
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN.,1900
support of their view. For instance, it is commonly asserted that
quiescence of mind on the part of the experimenters and a special
sympathy between them are conducive to success. Of course it may
often happen that both these conditions are present and that the
experiments are successful ; but there are many other cases in which
success has been attained without them, and those who have had the
longest and most varied experience in work of this kind generally agree
that not only is nothing proved as to how to cultivate the power, or
what conditions are best, but that we have absolutely no clue at
present which seems likely to lead to the desired discovery.
There is, indeed, one direction in which advance has been made ;.
namely, that we can now generally form a judgment as to when
the method of experimenting has been sufficiently stringent to admit
of conﬁdence that telepathy has really been manifested. Possible
sources of error in experimentation have been pretty fully—if not
exhaustively—explored. It is known that—apart from deliberate fraud
—indications of the idea to be transmitted may be both unconsciously
given and unconsciously received through the ordinary channels of '
sense; e.g., through variations in muscular pressure if the agent and
percipient are in any kind of contact with one another, or connected
by anything which could transmit such variations (for instance, by
the copper wire used in some of the experiments described below) ;_
or by variations of tone, gesture, expression, etc., if they are within
sight or hearing of one another. It is also known that a liberal
margin must be allowed—even if the percipients are in a normal
condition, and still more if they are in a hypnotised condition—for-
greater acuteness of the senses than is ordinarily supposed to exist,
and also for greater quickness and accuracy in the interpretation of'
all sensory impressions. It is true that the necessity for all these
precautions was soon discovered by some of the earliest systematic
workers of our Society (as may be seen by reference to the accounts of'
their experiments published in the early numbers of the Proceedings) ;
but there is no doubt that the only way of advancing the subject
further is to carry out many more experiments under the same stringent
conditions as there described, or with any further precautions that
experience might suggest. Accounts of such experiments would be
most gladly received by the Editor.
The subject, however, is not advanced, but rather hindered, by
rash speculations such as those given below, in which the writer—
instead of giving details of speciﬁc cases—attempts to generalise from.
the results of a limited experience, and it is thought that the careful
examination of his methods of working and results by Professor
JAN., 1900.] Premature Generalisations about Telepathy. 171
William Romaine Newbold and some of the latter’s colleagues and
friends in the University of Pennsylvania, may be usefully printed
here as a warning.
The article in question was written by Mr. Edmund Willson
Roberts; it appeared in an American periodical, The Cosmopolitan,
of March, 1899, under the title “Successful Attempts in Scientiﬁc
Mind-Reading,” and is as follows :—
The average individual is prone to look upon the subject of “thought
transference,” popularly known as “ mind-reading,” with more or less
derision. It is nevertheless a fact that the majority, perhaps all, of the
human race possess the faculty of reading the thoughts of others without
recourse to speech or to outward signs. That the statement is strictly true,
each reader may readily prove for himself by means of the experiments
outlined in this article.
Before taking up experiments in detail, it is necessary to caution the
experimenter against permitting zeal so to blind his judgment as to allow
mere chance or coincidence to be mistaken for actual results. No one is so
easily deceived by mere coincidence or by trickery as one inclined to
attribute such phenomena to supernatural causes—for instance, to the
“denizens of the spirit world.” And, although the writer offers neither
explanation nor theory regarding these phenomena, he feels conﬁdent that
once the laws of thought-transference are thoroughly established, they will
be found analogous to those physical laws accepted for electricity and light.
The following general rules apply to all experiments in thought
transference.
The receiver—he who receives the impression from the mind of another
—must, ﬁrst of all, learn to bring his mind to a state of absolute rest. In
other words, he must learn to think of nothing but the fact that another's
mind is trying to impress a thought upon his own. Experience has proved
that the more perfect the state of rest and the less the effort employed, the
easier it is for the transmitter—he who seeks to impress the thought—to
produce the mental effect desired. The success of the experiments depends,
in a great measure, upon the ability of the transmitter to concentrate his
mind upon the particular thought with which he wishes to impress the mind
of the receiver. The measure of success appears to vary inversely with the
extent of the effort employed. Merely to think of a word or phrase, without
allowing the mind to wander, is all that is required of the transmitter. The
circumstances surrounding the experiment are suﬂicient for the transmission
of the thought in the proper direction, and that portion of the experiment is
certain to take care of itself.
The experiment should never be attempted by those either mentally or
physically fatigued. Under no circumstances should a novice practise the
experiments continuously for any length of time, for the reason that, until
an experimenter learns to operate entirely without effort, he ﬁnds the work
very exhausting. Do not become discouraged at failures upon ﬁrst attempts.
The experimenter ﬁnds that by perseverance he soon acquires suﬂicient skill
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1900.
to be successful in the majority of experiments. If he keep a careful
record he soon perceives that there is no other explanation of the phenomena
observed, than thought-transference.
The ﬁrst experiment considered is that popularly known as “ pin
ﬁnding,” dubbed by wiseacres “ muscle-reading.” The customary pro
cedure is as follows : Several persons having assembled in a room, one of
the company leaves for a few moments, and during his absence some object
is hidden. The hiding-place is known to every one but the person outside.
The exiled individual then comes in and, taking the hand of another of the
company, attempts to ﬁnd the hidden object, ostensibly by reading the
minds of those present. I say ostensibly, because there is no denying that
the experiment is materially assisted by slight, though usually unconscious,
movements on the part of the leader.
The one doing the seeking—let us call him the operator—experiences an
inclination to go in a certain direction, and moves as he is inclined. He
usually walks slowly, but surely, to where the object is hidden, the leader,
of course, walking by the side and still holding the hand of the operator.
On arriving in front of the hiding-place, the operator is inclined to pause,
and his free hand seems to be led directly to the hidden object. The experi
ment may be varied by the company’s choosing some task which they desire
the operator to perform. Thus they may wish him to walk across the
room and lay his hand upon some particular object, or, perhaps, to take a
card from a tray and hand it to some one present.
The foregoing experiment is ordinarily successful, no matter who the
operator may be. If, however, the experiment be attempted without the
assistance of the leader, 'i.e., without bodily contact with any one, the
failures are more frequent and the performance of the experiment is often
exhausting to the operator. The reason for the larger percentage of failures
in this case is that the operator here depends upon thought-transference
alone, since he no longer has the aid of unconscious muscular action on the
part of an assistant. By practice, however, the operator gradually gains con
ﬁdence in his own ability, soon ﬁnding not only that bodily contact is entirely
unnecessary, but that if he resorts to it, he is apt to become confused.
To gain more quickly the necessary conﬁdence, the following intermediary
step may be taken. Procure a piece of copper wire, about eight or ten feet
long. Employ a leader, as in the ﬁrst experiment, but instead of taking
hold of his hand, have the leader grasp one end of the wire, while the
operator takes hold of the other ; allow the wire to lie upon the ﬂoor, and
make sure that no movement of the leader can be transferred to the end of
the wire which the operator is holding ; then proceed as in the ﬁrst experi
ment. In a short time the wire may be discarded altogether, and impressions
received when those present are several feet away.
A very good procedure to follow, when making the experiment without
contact, is ﬁrst to blindfold the operator securely before he enters the room.
The company having chosen the task to be performed, the operator is led
in, taken to the centre of the ﬂoor, and turned about several times, so that
he cannot tell in what direction he is facing, then left to his own devices.
JAx.,1900.] Premature Gene'rali-sations about Telepathy. 173
The others should now keep their minds ﬁxed upon the task to be per
formed. Perfect quiet is absolutely essential. Whispering, half- suppressed
laughter, or moving about are especially annoying to the operator.
Once placed in the centre of the room, the operator should, to begin
with, bring his mind to a state of rest. In a short time-—it may be a few
seconds, or it may, perhaps, take as long as two minutes—the operator ﬁnds
himself seemingly drawn, in some one direction, by an unknown force. He
should follow this inclination and do anything he feels impelled to do.
The result quite frequently is that he performs the task as laid down for him.
In the ﬁrst experiments of this nature, simple tasks should be chosen.
For example, take some object, as a bunch of keys, lay it on a chair
or shelf, and decide that the operator is to pick it up. The task may be
increased in diﬂiculty as the operator improves.
In the remaining experiments thought-transference proper comes into
play. In other words, the impression of an actual thought by the mind of
one person upon that of another is the principal feature. The sequence in
which these experiments are here described is also the order in which they
should be taken up by the novice.
In the ﬁrst experiment of this series the receiver takes a position with his
back to the transmitter and at a distance of ten feet or more. For
convenience, the transmitter should be seated at a table. The message or
thought to be transferred may be the mental image of any familiar object.
The transmitter chooses the object and lays it before him on the table,
with a background of contrasting colour beneath it, so that the outlines of
the object may stand out clearly. The transmitter should gaze at the object
continuously, without permitting his thoughts to wander. No effort need
be made toward impressing the thought upon the mind of the receiver, but
all efforts exerted in keeping the thoughts upon the message.
The mental cﬂbrts of the receiver should all be directed toward keeping
his mind as devoid of thought as he possibly can. The mental image of the
message appears slowly at ﬁrst, the distinctncss of the vision depending upon
the degree of concentration exercised by the transmitter. It is sometimes
diﬂicult to perceive the image ; and several objects may crowd themselves
forward before the mind’s eye, making it hard to choose the right one. The
most persistent image of all usually turns out to be the message, while it
frequently happens that the others are thoughts that have crowded them
selves into the mind of the transmitter.
The novice should, at ﬁrst, employ several transmitters, say as many as can
conveniently be grouped about a small table. A further aid to the beginner
is to choose four or ﬁve objects which the receiver knows of beforehand,
and from which the transmitters are to select their message. Suppose the
ﬁve objects are ﬁve numbers. The receiver is told that the message is to be
one of the numbers two. four, six, seven, and eight. The receiver now takes
his station, say in an armchair across the room, and covers his face with his
hands or shades his eyes, his back, of course, toward the transmitters.
The number chosen is now laid, face up, in the centre of the table, and
the other numbers laid aside so as not to be in view. Each transmitter
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1900.
gazes intently at the number. In the course of a few seconds the receiver
perceives the numbers two, four, and seven crowding forward; six and
eight, perhaps, are far in the background. The numbers two, four, and
seven ﬁle slowly past, each lingering a moment to be crowded out by
another; after a short time he ﬁnds that four is the most persistent of
the three, and, on naming it, is told that four is the chosen one.
If the ﬁrst guess is not correct, a new set of ﬁgures should be chosen
and the experiment repeated. Figures cut from an ordinary wall calendar
are very convenient for this purpose.
The number of ﬁgures used should be gradually increased as the receiver
improves, until he ﬁnally discovers that he succeeds quite well, when the
transmitters are at liberty to choose any number of one or two digits,
1'.e., any number from one to ninety-nine, inclusive.
The next step is to reduce the number of transmitters until one is ﬁnally
found suﬂicient. This gradual tapering down, as we may call it, gives both
parties conﬁdence—a most necessary qualiﬁcation for continual success.
A great obstacle in the path of success is the tendency of the transmitter
to permit his thoughts to wander from the message. In order to obviate
this difﬁculty as much as possible, the writer devised an instrument which he
has named “ teleposcope. ” This is nothing more than an oblong box, one end
larger than the other, ﬁtted with a removable slide at the larger end, and
at the smaller with a ﬂexible hood, so shaped as to ﬁt the head closely
about the eyes. For convenience when in use it is supplied with a handle on
the under side. The slide contains an aperture for the insertion of a piece
of paper, having upon it a ﬁgure or any character chosen for the purpose.
When the instrument is placed to the eyes of the transmitter, he has
nothing in view but the message. Thus the liability of his mind to wander
to subjects other than the message is considerably decreased. The eﬂiciency
of the instrument was proved in the ﬁrst three experiments made with its
assistance. Two of these, the ﬁrst and the third, were completely success
ful. In these experiments the distance between the transmitter and the
receiver was no less than 225 miles.
Not only is it possible to transmit disjointed numbers, but the operator
may, by practice, reach such a degree of perfection as to be able to read a
complete series of thoughts. No better illustration of this can be given than
the relation of an actual case, one from the writer’s personal experience.
The particular instance in question is selected more because of the cir
cumstances surrounding the case than because the results were unusual.
The transmitter was a young lady to whom the operator had been
introduced but three days previous to the experiment. He knew little
of her family, and absolutely nothing of her history prior to the intro
duction; he had, furthermore, no knowledge of her home but that it
was in the neighbourhood of New Orleans, knowing nothing whatever of
its exact location. He was likewise ignorant of the topography of the
surrounding country, having never been within 100 miles of the city.
The operator sat facing the transmitter and placed the palm of her hand
against his forehead. After requesting her to keep her mind upon some
J-A'iv‘.,i9e0.]W _1?rewt(lture Generalisati,ons about Telepathy. 175
event of which she could form a distinct mental picture, he was silent
for perhaps thirty seconds before he began a relation of his impressions.
\\'ithout entering into minutiae, it may be said that he was able to
-describe her thoughts brieﬂy as follows: The young lady had, some years
before, been driving with a young man, and during the drive they had
had a violent quarTel. He drove her through a wood to a stream much
too swollen to ford, and, after some protestation on the part of the
young lady against going farther, he drove her home.
The operator described her home, narrated what she did after the young
man left her, and even told many characteristics of the country surrounding
the house. When he had ﬁnished the young lady exclaimed : “ Every word
-of that is true. Now do you think you can tell me his name 'i”
Quick as a ﬂash came the answer, “ George Gardner.” The transmitter
sank back in her chair, overcome with astonishment. The answer was right.
Although this experiment was performed when the transmitter was
touching the operator, subsequent experiments were successfully performed
by the same parties while seated at opposite sides of the room.
' It is not necessary for the receiver to place the transmitter’s hand
against his forehead, a light grasp of the hands doing as well. But, with
a little practice, contact may be abandoned altogether and the parties
seated anywhere in the room. It is advisable for both experimenters to
cover their eyes with their hands, or at least to shade them, better to
prevent distraction from the subject in hand. The methods are otherwise
practically the same as those previously described. Experiments of this
xind are seldom successful with more than one-third of those acting as
transmitters for the ﬁrst time. By persistent practice, however, all seem
-able to acquire the necessary acumen.
When making experiments in thought-transference over distances greater
than those within the limits of an ordinary room, the plan outlined below
has given good results. It is possible that some other system might give
-an equally good, if not a better, chance of success, but the following scheme
has the advantage of having been tested in a series of some 125 experiments
made during the spring of last year.
The receiver and the transmitter should set apart some hour for the
work, when neither is likely to be disturbed. It 1s obviously essential
that the hour chosen by each individual should be the same. If there is
any difference in time, as, for instance, when one party is in New York
and the other in Chicago, proper allowance should be made. The hour
chosen is to be divided into six intervals of ten minutes each. During
the ﬁrst ten minutes both experimenters should rest, to give their minds
suﬂicient time to clear themselves of extraneous thoughts. The transmitter
-should devote a portion of this interval to the preparation of the message,
or the object, the mental image of which he wishes to impress upon the
mind of the receiver. During the second ten minutes the transmitter
-should gaze steadily at the object constituting the message. The receiver
should at the same time be seated in a comfortable position, his eyes
covered with his hand, and should note any image which may appear to
him, making a careful record of his impression at the close of the interval.
The following ten minutes is a second period of rest, and the ﬁrst ten
minutes at the second half of the hour is devoted to a second message.
A third period of rest ensues, and the last ten minutes is devoted to a
4
176 Jowrnat of Society for I’s;z/clvical Iteseu/rah. [Jxx., 1900.
third message. The periods of rest are essential, especially to the beginner,
as they not only help to avoid confusion of the messages, but give a chance
for rest to the novice, to whom the work is tiring.
In order to facilitate the keeping of records, it is well to prepare before
hand a set of blanks, to be kept in duplicate, the transmitter recording the
messages sent and the receiver the impressions received.
The original copy should be, at the earliest opportunity, mailed by each
experimenter to his collaborator, to ensure the conﬁdence of each party
in the other. Each receiving the other’s report after he has mailed his
own, will be satisﬁed that such results as are apparent are genuine.
Systematic and conscientious work, such as is required in any scientiﬁc
experiments, is certain to produce astonishing results. The experimenter
should not, however, expect too much at the start.
[Professor Newbold’s account of the experiments he tried to test the
validity of Mr. Roberts’ methods and conclusions will be given in the
next number of the Journal.]
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions ea:)n-eased by Correspoitdents.]
The following letter has been received from Mr. Barkworth in
reference to the discussion of Mr. Lang’s paper on “The Fire VValk”
in the last number of the Journal :—
December 12th, 1899.
I have been much interested in reading the discussion on Mr. Andrew
Lang's paper on the “ Fire Walk” . . . None of the speakers seem to
have noticed the extreme antiquity of the practice, which was of heathen
origin, was forbidden in the Mosaic law, and was denounced when practised
by various persons among the Israelites. What precise signiﬁcance or
object the ceremony had does not appear, but there was probably a con
notation of magic or witchcraft about it, which would make it particularly
abominable to the Jewish mind. What is more remarkable, however, is that
it has survived to the present day ; and I have learned from various sources,
both personal and literary, that in remote parts of Ireland, on certain days
of the year, young people make a practice of running between two ﬁres—
of course, without actual contact. As regards the physical effects, I can
offer no suggestion; but it may be worth while to add to Sir William
Crookes’s remarks that, when I was managing a large iron-works in Wales,
I was told that it was a well-known feat among puddlers for a bet to dip
their hands into molten iron. I never saw it done; but the explanation
is simple enough to make it credible. Before dipping the hand into the
iron, the puddler ﬁrst dipped it in cold water, and then plunged it all wet
into the molten ﬂuid. The water then, being instantly converted into
steam, expanded suﬂiciently to keep the iron from actual contact with the
ﬂesh ; and, of course, the man withdrew his hand too quickly to allow the
steam to be dissipated. This seems to have some analogy to the explanation
offered by Professor Barrett; but whether it would account for any of
7 _ l I
Home s performmces I cannot say. THoMAs BARKWoRTIL
[It will be found that the points referred to in the earlier part of
this letter are dealt with brieﬂy in Mr. Lang’s article, which is to
appear in the next Part of the Proceedings.—En.]
No. CLXVI.—VoL. IX. FEBRuARY, 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
CONTENTS. PAGE
Notice :—Delay in the 1ssue of Proceedings, Part XXXvI. .. . . .. .. . . . . I77
Further Discussion of a Case of supposed “ spirit-Photography " :
I. ByA1iceJohnson .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 177
II. By D. B. McLachlan.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I83
III. By Professor W. F. Barrett .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. I88
Iv. By0thers .. .. .. - .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 191
Case .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 195
Premature Generalisations about Telepathy (continued from the January “Joumal”) . . 197
NOTICE.
DELAY IN THE ISSUE OF “PROCEEDINGS,” PART XXXVI.
We regret to announce that the issue of Proceedings, Part
XXXVI, has been unavoidably delayed, owing to a request received
from Professor J. H. Hyslop as the Part was going to press, to post
pone for a time his paper on “Experiments in illustration of the
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper,” which had been announced to
appear in it and would have occupied the larger half of the Part. A
small Part will now appear early this month.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF A CASE OF SUPPOSED
“ SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHY.”
I.
BY ALICE JoHNson.
The case here referred to was published in my article on “Coin
cidences” in the Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXXV. (pp. 234 to 238).
Professor Barrett's investigation of this case—the photograph of “D.
Hall” taken by Miss S. R. Corbet, in which there appeared an'un
accountable ﬁgure, supposed by some to be a “spirit-photograph” of
the late “ Lord D.”—ﬁrst came out in the Journal (December, 1895),
and was reprinted in my article, and soon afterwards I received
various letters relating to it.
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FF.B.,1900.
Before dealing in detail with the points raised, I may observe
that I had an opportunity a few weeks ago of seeing another letter
from Miss Corbet about the case, which by some accident I had not
seen before. This letter is dated May 25th, 1895, and in it occurs
the following :—
The door was not locked—there are three into the room—and I
think that one of them was open, as my recollection is that I placed the
camera in or a little beyond the doorway, to give as much length to the
picture as possible. . . . The only men in the house at the time were
my youngest brother, the butler (neither of these went into the room) and
two footmen, and as all four were young men, I do not think that any of
these could have caused the ﬁgure . . . which appears to be an old
man with a beard.
Now, the chief arguments brought forward in support of the
spiritistic interpretation of the photographf rested on the supposition
that there was only one door to the room, so that no one could have
come in without noticing the camera in the doorway ; that, therefore,
it was almost impossible that any one coming in could have been
brought into the photograph accidentally—without his own intention;
while there was a moral presumption against this having been done
deliberately—as a practical joke. But the existence of the other two
doors certainly takes away much—if not all—of the force of these
arguments.
With regard to the moral presumption against a deliberate prac
tical joke, Miss Corbet writes on May 31st, 1895 :
I have quite lost sight of one of the footmen, but I enquired’ yesterday
if the other was at all likely to have come into the room at the time and
hope to hear some day; but I do not think any of the servants would
be likely to play a practical joke, and I know my brother would not have
done so.
It must be noted that this inquiry was not apparently made till
the date mentioned, whereas the photograph was taken on December
5th, 1891.
One of the most remarkable features of the photograph, as
described in my article, is that there are double images of almost
all the objects in it, the brightest or best lighted lines being the
most clearly doubled. This was said to show that the camera must
have been moved slightly during the exposure, as no movement of
the objects could have produced such complete uniformity of doubling
as appears throughout. One of my correspondents, however,—Mr.
D. B. McLachlan,—wrote that he could see no clear traces of the
doubling in the reproduction of the photograph. This led me to
Fi;B.,1900.] Discussion of Supposed “Spirit-Photograph;/.” 179
reexamine both the original photograph and Dr. Kingston's descrip
tion of the doubling, of which a summary only was given in my
article. Dr. Kingston, having made a special study of the subject
of “spirit-photography,” had been invited by Professor Barrett to
examine this specimen, and he described the doubling in a letter to
Professor BarTett, dated October 6th, 1895, as follows :—
I have been examining again the photograph while showing it to
friends and have found some things about it which I had not noticed before.
First I saw that that chair which stands in the middle of the room had
apparently been moved ; the books on the chair behind it show right
through the bars of the back and the pattern of the carpet “shows through”
the legs. I thought it must have been moved or even placed there by the
man who came in and sat down, but on looking more closely I found that
there is hardly a white line or mark in the picture which is not doubled!
The brightest or best lighted lines are the most distinct naturally, especially
where they fall in one of their positions on a dark ground.
Look at the lady's portrait on the little table on the right. The double
outline of the card is most distinct, but even the face can be faintly seen.
See the candle behind it. See the other candle on the left and the portrait
beside it, where the doubling of the card is sharp and even the reﬂection of
the candle in the glass is doubled. The same holds throughout. I believe
the camera was moved, and for a short time, either at the beginning or the
end of the exposure, was in a (very slightly) different position. Nay, I am
quite sure of it. Wherever a line was light enough to impress the plate in
the time of the shorter exposure, it is doubled.
The books in the bookcase are doubled ! so it was no movement of the
furniture, but of the camera. Could this have been done by the shutting
of a door? Did the camera stand insecurely or on a polished ﬂoor, or
did Miss Corbet pass it in the doorway after moving the cap, or just before
replacing it? The doubling of the books, by the way, is best seen in those
below the coronet and [letter] I in those two lower shelves. The fainter image
is below and to the right just in proportion to the typical one of the lady’s
portrait. Higher up the light has not been enough for the short exposure,
and at that place where the light falls most strongly, the density of the
one image almost obscures the other. Even there it can be seen and the
moulding of the case shows in the space where a book has been removed.
A faint but quite distinct repeat is the curved handle to a drawer just
above the corner of the seat of the middle chair. I am not quite so well
satisﬁed with regard to that chair, but still I think the marks follow the same
law, and the greater vagueness is caused by strong light of the edge of the
hook and chair behind and the comparative shadow in which it stands itself.
At any rate it must have stood there for all the longer exposure. It is just
the same as the others, but being nearer, the displacement is a little greater.
The same applies to the lamp or ﬂower stand in front of the big chair which
we discussed, and which I thought then being brass must have a second
light on it, but I now see it is just doubled like the rest. Why the lower
180 Journal of Society for Psychtcal Research. [FEB., 1900.
part does not show this clearly is that it had not light enough for the short
exposure. . . .
As to the “ghost” itself I cannot with certainty make out the same
doubling ; of course, if one could, it would prove that the form, faint as it is,
had been there all the time (but even if it was, the faintness of its lights
might prevent the shorter exposure from being recorded). But I am
inclined to believe that it is not so, the outline seems generally blurred.
There is a shading on the hand that might be caused by the double outline !
I wish I could speak more certainly.
On comparing this description afresh with the photograph, it
appeared to me that the transparency of the chair in the middle
of the foreground was a more signiﬁcant feature than I had pre
viously considered it. It also appeared to me that Dr. Kingston’s
ﬁrst hypothesis that “it must have been moved or even placed there
by the man who came in and sat down” was not incompatible with
his observation that the lines in it are doubled,—like the lines of
the other objects in the room.
In most of the objects, there are in each case two images side by
side, and overlapping one another; and the overlapping region is—
naturally—opaque, because it would have been covered by one or
the other image during the whole of the exposure.
The peculiarity of the chair is that in some parts of it, notably
the legs and back, the region where the two images overlap is trans
ca/rent, as well as the rest.
This seems to me to afford strong evidence for the view that during
part of the exposure neither image was there—in other words, that the
chair was moved into that position soon after the exposure had begun,
or moved away from it before the exposure ended.
Against this view it is argued by Mr. McLachlan in his communica
tion printed below that some parts of the chair—especially parts of
the seat—are opaque, which would tend to show that it had been there
all the time; and I do not think it is at all easy to explain this
apparent anomaly. If the chair had only been there for part of the
time, we should certainly expect it to appear transparent throughout,
unless—as Mr. McLachlan observes in a letter to me—it were so
strongly illuminated in proportion to the objects behind it that its
image on the plate would cause theirs to be imperceptible. It is
impossible, however, to make sure of the degree of illumination of the
whole of its background. There is a shadow thrown by a writing
table on the ﬂoor behind the chair in such a position that it might
and I think probably did—cause the front of the seat to appear
opaque ; but the very opacity necessarily prevents the exact limits of
the shadow from showing. The background above and below this
FEB.,1900.] Discussion of Supposed “Spirit-Photography.” 181
region is strongly lighted, which would account satisfactorily for the
transparency of the back and legs of the chair.
In any case, the double image of the chair proves that the move.
ment of the camera must have taken place while the chair was in the
position in which we now see it. Mr. McLachlan writes below (p. 183)
in reference to the fact that one set of images is much brighter than
the other: “ The plate was thus in two positions during the exposure.
The ﬁrst position lasted probably not more than a few seconds, since
only the highest lights affected the plate. It is therefore practically
certain that the camera was moved before Miss Corbet left the house.”
I agree that the camera must have been in one position much longer
than in the other, but I fail to see any ground for the assumption
that the first position was the one which lasted for the shorter period ;
on the face of it, it would simply appear, as—following Dr. Kingston’s
view—I said in my account, that “the camera must have been moved
either near the beginning or near the end of the exposure.” The
peculiar features in the transparency of the chair just described are
also consistent with the supposition that the shorter exposure came
last, not first ; and therefore that it was not Miss Corbet who moved
the camera in going out of the room, but some one else who came
upon the scene later.
It will be seen that Mr. McLachlan conﬁrms my statement that
the double image of the “ghost” does not at all correspond with the
double images of the other objects in the room, and that therefore
the multiplication of its outlines must have been caused by its own
movements, not by any movement of the camera. His general
description of the ﬁgure,_its transparency, the absence of features
in the face, etc.,—also agrees closely with mine. The transparency—
on the supposition that it was a human ﬁgure—shows that it must
have been in the chair only a very short time, which would render
more feasible the continuous movement of the legs and left side of
the body that—on Professor Barrett’s surmise—accounted for the
invisibility of these parts in the photograph.
Mr. McLachlan thinks that Professor Barrett’s photograph is
clearly that of a man, and not comparable to the other. I cannot
help fancying that a believer in “ spirit-photography,” seeing Professor
Barrett’s photograph and not knowing how it had been obtained,
would, primd facie, attribute it to spirit agency. It is in parts
rather more opaque than the “ghost” ﬁgure, but its left arm is
distinctly less so. Mr. McLachlan says of it, “The legs are slightly
indicated.77 The indication consists of what may be described as a
soupron of a perfectly shapeless blur—the slightest possible difference
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB.,1900.
of illuInination—down the middle of the front of the chair in which
the ﬁgure is sitting. I think with Mr. McLachlan that this was most
likely produced by the legs of the sitter. But the judgment seems
to me to depend simply on interpretation, not on any visual per
ception. VVe both believe that a man with legs sat in the chair;
we are therefore willing to interpret this barely visible and otherwise
meaningless appearance as legs. Similarly, I believe that a man sat
in the “ghost’s” chair, and I can see a difference of illumination
down the front of that chair which I interpret as the legs of that
man. Mr. McLachlan sees there “no . . . legs.” It is obvious
that my judgment of what I see there depends solely on interpre~
tation, and is absolutely worthless as evidence.
Mr. McLachlan remarks that if a man had come into the room,
he must have left various other traces of himself in the photograph,
besides the ghostly ﬁgure. But this would only be the case if he came
into the part of the room included in the photograph, and within that
part the transparency of the chair already described seems to me
evidence of the intrusion. I pointed this out to Mr. McLachlan, and
he suggested, as he states below, that the transparency might be due
to spirit agency. To me there seems no more reason to attribute the
transparency of the chair than the opacity of the other objects in the
photograph to spirits. If ordinary material effects are to be put down,
—now to the ordinary causes recognised by science, and now to
“spirits,”—how can any certainty, even of the roughest practical
kind, ever be attained on any subject; or how can our knowledge of
phenomena ever be in any way advanced? We need not, indeed,
assume that “science,”—i.e., the amount of scientiﬁc knowledge we
possess at present,—can explain everything. But we shall reduce
philosophy to a hopeless chaos if we once give up the scientiﬁc
principle of excluding ordinary known causes before having recourse
for an explanation to unknown ones; and to my mind we cannot at
present, even on the authority of Mr. W. T. Stead, regard the direct
action of disembodied spirits on matter as a known cause.
To sum up the arguments against spirit agency in this case :—
(1) The room was not locked at the time the photograph was being
taken, and there were two other doors into it besides that in which
the camera was placed.
(2) The house was apparently left empty, except for the servants,
during almost the whole time of the exposure, which lasted for an hour.
(3) Inquiry was not made as to whether any one had entered the
room during the exposure until more than three years afterwards; and
was not made at all of one of the then' inmates of the house.
Fm, 1900.] Discussion of Supposed “Spi'rz't-Photography!’ 183
(4) 'Professor Barrett showed that a ﬁgure reproducing the essen
tial features of the “ ghost,” viz., its fragmentary nature and its
transparency, could be got by photographing a human being under
certain conditions.
(5) Apart from the possibility of the ghost ﬁgure having been thus
produced, the transparency of the chair in the middle of the room
tends to prove that it was not there during the whole of the exposure
and was therefore probably moved into that place by a person in the
room—perhaps the same person who moved the camera afterwards.
If circumstantial evidence can ever be regarded as conclusive, I
think that its cumulative weight in this case is sufficient to show that
all the features of the photograph are due to ordinary normal causes.
II.
BY D. B. MCLACHLAN.
I have examined the original photograph closely and ﬁnd numerous
bright points and edges that are duplicated. Where this occurs there
is a false image below and to the right of the true image. The
doubling must have been caused by a slight movement of the camera
after the lens was uncapped. The plate was thus in two positions
during the exposure. The ﬁrst position lasted probably not more than
a few seconds, since only the highest lights affected the plate. It is
therefore practically certain that the camera was moved before Miss
Corbet left the house. Several ladies were present at the arranging
of the camera.
Apart from the doubling, which is quite normal and intelligible,
the photograph has two peculiarities not so easy to understand. As
they appear to be physically unrelated, they can be treated separately.
The Ghost.
The ﬁgure in the chair is not doubled by the movement of the
camera. There is a doubling of the back of the head, but it is not
of the same nature as the other doublings. In these the strong or
permanent image is the one to the left and above the other; in the
case of the Ghost this is the weaker image.
It has been suggested that the head of the Ghost is a reﬂection of
the metallic bowl of the ﬂower stand from the upholstered back of
the chair, and the spectral hand a similar reﬂection from part of the
metal stem. The head is squarish, whereas the bowl is an inverted
cone. In the position occupied by the hand there is nothing that
184 Journal of Society for Psychicat Research. [FEB.,1900.
would reﬂect the stem. The Ghost is obviously something in the
chair and is lighted quite naturally from the left-hand window. If
it were a reﬂection it would have the lighting of the thing reﬂected.
This hypothesis fails to account for the white collar of the Ghost and
for the perfectly human outline from the top of the head down to the
hand. The Ghost is not an image chalked on the chair-back.
The notion that a man entered the room during the exposure
seems to me untenable. If there is only one door and that occupied
by the camera, no man, visitor or servant, would commit the
ﬂagrant trespass of entering the room, knowing he would either spoil
the photograph or be included in it. What motive can be assigned
for such a proceeding? If there is another entrance and some one
entered for no particular object—and none is apparent—then he
probably lounged in slowly as people enter rooms, stopping now and
then to look about him before settling down, and if so he would have
left many traces of himself in the photograph if he did not quite
spoil it. There is no sign of any such intrusion—with the possible
exception of the Ghost himself, which is the point in dispute.
Let us suppose that a man entered somehow and moved about
without leaving a trail behind him—can the Ghost be his photograph?
Viewed through a microscope the ghostly head is a thin white
mist, through which the markings of the chair (apparently stamped
leather) are visible. There is no eye, no mouth, no ear. The nose
and cheekbone are slightly indicated. The brow is part of a ridge in
the chair-back. There seems to be a chin or small pointed beard.
The hand has no ﬁngers, and the shirt-cull‘ is continuous with what
appears to be the back of the hand. There is practically no trunk at
all to the Ghost, no left arm, no thighs or legs. The general effect is
distinctly human and for the most part independent of the chair
marks, and yet not one of the details can be recognised as human.
Without presuming to deny that such an image can be produced in
the ordinary way with a human sitter, I would point out that the
experimental photograph is not conclusive. Here we have a good half
of a trunk showing the folds and seams of the coat, the form of the
tie and collar ; we have the left arm pretty well marked, every feature
of the face, the ear, and every ﬁnger of the hand. The legs are
slightly indicated. There is no doubt that this is the photograph of a
man, whereas the ghostly image is more like the photograph of a
clever sketch intended to produce a striking general effect with the
least possible detail. Examined piecemeal the Thing is not human;
viewed as a whole it is most human and full of character, and some
have recognised in it a portrait.
Fm, 1900.] Discussion of Supposed “Spirit-Photography.” 185
Unless some better physical theory be found than those mentioned
I should take the phenomenon to be an example of what is called
Spirit-Photography. It is impossible to doubt that such photographs
have been honestly produced or obtained by Sir William Crookes,
Mr. Traill Taylor, Mr. Glendinning, Mr. Stainton Moses, Madame
d’Espérance and others. They are of three main classes—(i) portraits
of living discarnate beings or spirits, (ii) pictures of eﬂigies or lay
ﬁgures often very incomplete and not necessarily human-like, (iii)
reproductions of physical pictures or other objects. Possibly the ﬁrst
sort has something of the second character—the sitter has to undergo
some preparation for the photography. As to the process, the objects
may be rendered temporarily material and photographed like any
physical thing, or the plate may be affected without light, lens or
camera. The D. Ghost is, in my opinion, a phenomenon of the second
class produced in the ﬁrst manner. It is a bit of sketchy spiritual
modelling set there to be photographed.
The Transparent Chair.
The chair in the middle of the room shows duplications due to the
movement of the camera—e_g., the head of the leg farthest to the left
and the twists of this and the other similar leg. The back legs have a
dark stripe down the middle where the two images overlap. From
these indications I conclude that the chair was there during the whole
of the exposure, and this is consistent with the opacity of the seat,
which conceals a bright part of the carpet. Had the carpet been
exposed for the shortest time it would have shown through the seat of
the chair. All that is intelligible. Now enter mysteries.
The wood of the chair where it is well-lighted and covers a well
lighted background is transparent. The images seen through the
wood are even better deﬁned than the contiguous free parts, for they
are not over-exposed. They look as if seen through smoked glass.
The legs are mostly transparent except the tops at the seat and the
upper part of the right back leg. The horizontal bar at the right of
the seat is not transparent. The right-hand twisted pillar of the back
is as transparent as glass. The lower rail shows the carpet through it,
and a distinct though dark image of the bossy leg of the large chair
behind. The upper rail shows backs of books and a portion of the
leather edging of the book-shelf—the bright leaf-like objects. The
left-hand column is opaque, apparently because what lies behind is not
bright, but the knob at the top is absent where the brightness begins.
The wood in front of the seat is unequally transparent, the left half
being the clearer. This may be due to some difference in the ﬁlm.
186 Journal of Society for Peychical Research. [Fm., 1900.
This chair is the only transparent thing in tl1e room: the white patch on
the stem of the round table is the false image of the adjacent carpet.
From these transparencies, considered by themselves, we should
infer that the chair was placed there after the background had been
exposed for a short time, but this view is contradicted by the opacity
of the seat and some parts of the wood.
The chair, while partaking of the general movement, may have
been displaced relative to objects behind it. This would account for a
slight margin of transparency, but not for all. To get a clear view of
the leg of the great chair the smaller one in front would have to
be moved half its width.
In the records of Spirit-Photography we read of transparency and
duplication as concomitants of the spirit image—see Mrs. Sidgwick’s
paper on the subject in the Society’s Proceedings for l892.* To the
scientiﬁc critic these accessories are proof enough that the photograph
is fraudulent, though one might suppose that a practical photographer
bent on deceit would be able to cover his tracks more skilfully. In
the D. photograph precisely the same concomitants occur, and the
operator is an amateur above suspicion. For this reason I would not
take the judgment of 1892 as the last word on the subject.
Spiritualistic apologists offered reasons and explanations that no
self-respecting man or woman of science would entertain for a moment
—as that the spirits might move the camera; that their aura was a
medium of double refraction ; that they were able to alter the
material properties of things; and that the spirit light had power
to pass through opaque substances. Mrs. Sidgwick makes short work
of these pleas, but since then the Rtintgen photography has been'
discovered and puts a somewhat different complexion on the matter.
There is a later case of abnormal transparency in connection with
spirit-photography mentioned in Borderland (Vol. II., p. 317). Mr.
Stead sat to be photographed next a solid wooden pedestal, on which
was a pot containing a fern. The photograph shows a lady behind
the pedestal; the pedestal, without being moved, appears as if
shortened by about a foot, and through it is seen the bottom of a
curtain behind and a rent in the curtain. He went again to be taken
in the same position, but now there was no lady and the pillar had
its everyday properties. The photographs are reproduced and conﬁrm
the report as to the shortening, but the rent is not visible, perhaps
because the reproduction is bad. If the plant is the same in both
cases, it appears larger and healthier in the ﬁrst than in the second.
* Vol. VII., p. 268.
FEB.,1900.] Discussion of Supposed “Sp1§rit-Phot0,qmphy.” 187
Mr. Traill Taylor examined the photographs, and said of the
shortening and transparency(p. 322) that “he could not offer even
a hypothesis. It was utterly inexplicable from the point of view
of the photographic expert.”
The same periodical (Vol. I., p. 446) has a still more surprising
case of this order taken indirectly from a Russian journal.
La Haute Science in its last number, among “ Glanes,” has the following
taken from the Russian journal Nwas Vremia, of March 5th, 1894 :—
“Professor Wagner has just communicated to the branch devoted to
photography of the Imperial Technique Society (Société Technique Impériale)
of St. Petersburg a most extraordinary fact. Desiring to photograph a
hypnotised subject, he directed upon him his camera, and by the aid of a
Kourdiou magnesium lamp made two instantaneous exposures, taking care
to surround himself with all the precautions required in such a delicate
matter. Now when he examined the plates his astonishment was without
bounds. The walls of the room, the furniture, the curtains, the carpets, all
appeared in detail; only the subject was nowhere to be discovered. In
place of the person was to be seen on one of the plates a portion of his hand,
and on the other a part of his boot, while the rest of the body was concealed
by white spots appearing to rise in concentric layers. It was in his own
apartment, in the middle of a room closed and locked, into which nobody
could come while the professor hypnotised his subject and extended him
on a sofa, and whom no blanket or like material covered. The learned
experimenter not being able to give any satisfactory explanation of this
phenomenon, a committee of three members was selected by the specialists
of the Technique Society to repeat the experiment of Professor Wagner
on the same subject when hypnotised, in the same place and under the
same conditions.”
The climax of transparency is reached when the object intended to
be portrayed is not found in the photograph at all—not even a hand
or foot. “I know of one case,” says Mr. Stead (l00. cit.) “in which
an amateur photographer photographed a visitor who was standing in
front of the mantelpiece. When the negative was developed there
was a photograph of the mantelpiece, but the ﬁgure in front of it had
entirely disappeared. This was a great mystery, but still greater was
the sequel. When showing that photograph to clairvoyants in Chicago
—the photograph, I may mention, was taken in England—without
telling them of any mystery connected with the photo, they saw the
missing man standing with his back to the mantelpiece and described
him quite accurately, nor would they believe that I could not see the
person whom they saw quite unmistakably in the very centre of the
photograph.”
To dismiss such accounts as fabulous for no other reason than
their want of conformity with the scientiﬁc conventions of the day,
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1900.
appears to me unwise. The science of to-morrow may have a use for
them. Why should it be assumed that science can explain every
thing? Its theories were not originally framed to include or explain
spiritual phenomena, and we cannot get much more from a theory
than we put into it. Natural laws being only human ideas, we may '
expect them to break down as knowledge advances.
Wimbledon, November 27th, 1 89 9.
III.
BY PRoFEssoR W. F. BARRETT.
I have read with much interest the foregoing discussion by Miss
Johnson and Mr. McLachlan on the origin of the shadowy ﬁgure
which appeared in Miss Corbet’s photograph of the library of a
historic mansion, where she and her sisters happened to be staying.
1. As regards the fact that there was more than one door into the
library, and that none of the doors were locked during the time the
photograph was being taken, this ought to have been more explicitly
stated in the original account, which, however, was only a very brief
summary of the principal points in the correspondence which Miss
Corbet had with me on the subject of this photograph during the
early part of 1895. In that account (Journal S.P.R., December,
1895, p. 166) it is stated “she [Miss Corbet] was not in the room
the whole time, and did not lock the doors when she left the room.”
From which more than one door may be inferred.
2. With reference to the moving of the chair which appears in the
middle of the picture (not the arm-chair) after the exposure of the
plate had begun, I agree with Miss Johnson that this is very probable.
But it is not impossible Miss Corbet may herself have moved the chair
into its present position after removing the cap from the camera. I
had intended to have an enlargement made of the original negative—
or at any rate to have projected an enlarged image on to a screen—
and examined the picture in detail ; this would doubtless have cleared
up several obscure points, but the marriage of Miss Corbet, and her
departure for India, took place in the course of the inquiry, and I
have not, as yet, been able to obtain the loan of the negative, though
perhaps this may still be possible.
3. Mr. McLachlan points out certain differences between the
experimental photograph which I took and the shadowy ﬁgure in
Miss Corbet’s photograph. No doubt slight differences do exist. My
FEB.,1900.] Discussion, of Supposed “Spirit-Photography.” 189
only object in taking the photograph was to test the theory I had
formed that the absence of legs and of one arm in the “ghost” was
probably due to certain movements in a sitter, who, I assumed, might
have surreptitiously entered the room and seated himself in the arm
chair during the long exposure of the plate. As this hypothesis was
veriﬁed in the very ﬁrst experimental photograph taken, I did not
think it worth while to take another, nor to attempt to imitate more
exactly the so-called “ spirit photograph.” I have not the least doubt
that a few trials would enable any one to reproduce a ﬁgure the
facsimile of that in the armchair in Miss Corbet’s photograph.
4. Lin Espin [see below] imagines the ﬁgure seated in the chair pur
posely tried to imitate a “spirit photograph.” He remarks “ how many
would know that to get this result [absence of the left arm and legs] a
continuous motion was necessary?” This is a gratuitous and needless
supposition. For my own part, I think the explanation I suggested in
September, 1895 (Journal, S.P.R., 1895, p. 170), remains the most
probable one, viz., “That one of the servants came into the room, sat
down in the chair, crossed his legs and then uncrossed them, looked
down for a few moments and then at the camera, saw he was being
taken, so got up and went away” before Miss Corbet returned to the
room. I should have added “ and also swung his left arm to and fro,
whilst his right arm remained steady, resting on the elbow of the
chair.” The analysis of the evidence made by Miss Johnson in her
instructive contribution to the discussion renders this explanation
still more probable, and, I think, entirely disposes of Mr. McLachlan’s
view. As for Mr. Espin’s remark that the ﬁgure is “in the shade”
and “ too low in the chair,” the ﬁrst is surely incorrect, as the light
from an adjacent window is seen falling on the near side of the arm
chair, and the second depends on the height of the person who sat in
the chair. As there were two young and beardless footmen in the
house at the time, it was probably one of these lads whose sudden
whim gave rise to this quasi-spirit photograph.
5. On the other hand it is right to give due weight to the fact
that the lady who took the photograph had, and I believe still has,
some hesitation in accepting the explanation I have given. And this
not for any of the reasons advanced by Mr. McLachlan and others,
but chieﬂy from the result of the inquiries made both by her and
by myself. It would perhaps have been better to have published all
the correspondence, especially the letters as to the identiﬁcation of the
ﬁgure in the photograph by one of the deceased nobleman’s nearest
relatives and some of his friends, while others who knew him equally
well denied the likeness. For my own part, after carefully weighing
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1900.
T-w--_..__.-_-_ _ V
all the evidence, I have little doubt that some such explanation as
I have given is suﬂicient to account for the shadowy ﬁgure.and its
fancied resemblance to Lord D.
In conclusion permit me to draw attention to the singularly
unscientiﬁc procedure of that omniscient gentleman who regularly
contributes to the English Zllechanic under the nom-ole-plume of a
“Fellow of the Royal .Astronomical Society.” In the ﬁrst instance he
gives in the columns of the English Zllechanic an elaborate story,
“supplemented by details” in successive numbers, of how something
very like “a spirit photograph” was obtained by an amateur lady
photographer, and how, “upon developing the negative, to her horror
this lady . . . at once, with her sister, recognised it [the “spirit
photograph ”] as that of their father,” whose funeral was taking place
that very day. (The italics are his.) Again: “They were so frightened
at the result of what they had done that for some considerable
time they kept it to themselves.” Now it turns out that all this is
pure ﬁction, and the story, as told by “F. R. A. S.,” is an absurdly
incorrect and misleading version of an account which was published
nearly three years previously in the Journal of the S.P.R. Further,
the account in the Journal was given at ﬁrst hand, and only published
after inquiry and experimental investigation had enabled us to form
some rational explanation of the shadowy ﬁgure in the photograph.
On the other hand, as the Editor of the S.P.R. Journal remarks
(November, 1899, p. 143), “F. R. A. S.’s version is at least third
hand, and may be more remote.” It is, in fact, a highly-coloured
narrative, published without the smallest attempt at veriﬁcation. One
would imagine that under these circumstances, when “F. R. A. S.”
had the candour to state that his account was erroneous, some acknow
ledgment would have been made by this gentleman of the S.P.R.
that enabled him to correct his mistake ; otherwise there is no reason
why the readers of the English illechanic should, upon the mere ipse
oliacit of “ F. R. A. S.,” be called upon to disbelieve what he had pre
viously led them to infer was information derived at ﬁrst hand.
Let me also draw attention to another remarkable statement
made by “F. R. A. S.” He writes: “ One extraordinary coincidence,
identifying this imperfect image with that of the deceased peer, I
purposely suppress, as its mention would almost certainly lead to his
identiﬁcation.” Again, in a subsequent number, he states : “I very
studiously avoided even hinting at the nature of the coincidence
which seemed to me so remarkable.” Again, “ The peculiarity to which
I referred . . . took the form of a privaiion.” I think we have a
right to ask “F. R. A. S.” what is this remarkable coincidence to
Fm3.,1900.] Discussion of Supposed “Spi'rit-Photography.” 191
which he repeatedly alludes ; was it the absence of the legs or of the
left arm in the ﬁgure, and was he confounding the deceased peer with
his ancestor who fought in the Peninsular war? In any case I hope
the readers of the English Zllechanic will in future view with some
little distrust the opinions upon psychical phenomena and the animad
versions upon the S.P.R. given by a “ Fellow of the Royal Astronomical
Society ” who conceals his greatness in anonymity.
IV.
BY OrHERs.
[Readers of the Journal may remember an article in the November
issue entitled “An Incorrect Version of a Case of Supposed ‘Spirit
Photography,”7 and referring to an account given in the English
Mechanic of Miss S. R. Corbet’s photograph of/‘ D. Hall,” by the
writer, mentioned above by Professor Barrett, who signs himself “ A
Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society.” Immediately after the
November Journal came out, a copy of it was sent to this gentleman
through the Editor of the English Mecltanic, and a certain “Letter to
the Editor,” published in the latter periodical of November 17th, leads
almost irresistibly to the belief that the copy was duly received. We
reprint the portion of this letter relating to the case.—ED.]
[43,015.]—“ Never,” says a trite adage, “believe anything you hear, and
not more than half what you see ”—an adage of the truth and common-sense
of which I have just had a very remarkable and impressive illustration. In
a letter which I wrote (41,461) on p. 92 of your LXVIIIth Volume, I told a
very curious story of the apparition of the seated ﬁgure of a deceased peer
in a photograph taken of his empty library after his death —a story which I
subsequently supplemented by details given on pp. 138, 186, 233, etc. This
narrative I reproduced, practically verbatim, as it was told me by a common
friend of mine and of the family—himself a man of rank and title, whose
veracity and bona ﬁdes are beyond all question or dispute, and who lent me
the photographs on which I commented. Now, however, I have learned,
within the last 24 hours, that the account I gave (as it was given to me) was
erroneous in many very material respects, and that the evidence that there
was anything supernatural, or “spiritual,” about the affair, is nearly as
shadowy as the ﬁgure itself. Let me correct some of my—or my informant’s
—misstatements seriatim. Imprimis, I have it now that Lord X. did not
die at (what I will call) X. Hall at all, but in London, X. Hall being let at
the time to the sister, Lady Z., of the actual photographer (whose name has
since been made public, so that I have no reason for concealing it), Miss
Corbet. Secondly, neither Mrs. Y. nor Lady Z. were at X. Hall at the
time. Thirdly, it was by accident, and not by design, that the photograph
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Fm3.,1900.
was taken on the day of the funeral. Fourthly, neither of Lord X.’s
daughters either took or developed the photograph. Fifthly—and most
important this is—I was utterly misinformed as to the room having been
closed during the exposure of the plate in the camera, for Miss Corbet
states that “the door was left open all the time the photograph was being
taken, the camera being placed in the open doorway, while she and her
sister went out for a walk, apparently leaving the house empty, except for
the servants.” Now, this being so, I revert to what I said in letter 41,667,
on p. 233 of your LXVIIIth Volume: “I am driven to the conclusion
that someone must have sat in the chair for a very short time during the
exposure of the plate.” I gather from an independent source that my
friend Mr. Espin’s very interesting experiments on the production of a
similar “ghost” by light reﬂected from a vase on a tall brass pole are
to be the subject of further investigation. I need hardly reiterate here
that I have not the very slightest faith in “spiritual” apparitions, and
(as I have often said), broadly divide spiritualists into two categories
knaves (the so-called “media ”) and fools (their dupes); but, like all
men of science, I hold my opinions more or less loosely, and regard
“Audi alteram partem ” as essentially the motto of every one who wishes
to arrive at the truth. Hence, when I received the story, just as I told
'it, from what I regarded as an absolutely unimpeachable source, I did
not think that my own belief or disbelief ought to stand in the way of
my making it public, however much it might conﬂict with my own utter
ances, public and private. But this only furnishes yet another instance
of the fallibility of testimony, or perhaps of the inability of the average
man or woman to repeat a story with anything approaching to verbal
or even material—accuracy. I have been struck with this in one way,
amongst others, which might have acted as a caution to me. I sometimes
do a little conjuring, and have been at once amazed and amused to hear
certain of the spectators subsequently tell people what they had seen me
do ; so wildly wide of the truth have their perfectly ingenuous narratives
been. However, I have, I hope, learned my lesson this time, and will
trouble my brother-readers with no more stories of apparitions, be they
of peers or potboys, because I could only really give such a story ﬁrst
hand if I were myself qualifying for a lunatic asylum.
[“ F. R. A. S.” deserves every credit for the candour and promptitude
with which he has disclaimed the mistakes made in his original
narrative so soon after they were pointed out to him, and it is gratify
ing to ﬁnd him endorsing so heartily our own warnings as to the
fallibility of human testimony. It must be observed that his classiﬁca
tion of “spiritualists” into “knaves and fools" is represented, with
some magnanimity, not as an essential part of the creed of “ all men
of science,” but merely as his own opinion ; and we must acknowledge
the sense of justice and the courage displayed in not allowing his own
belief or disbelief to stand in the way of his making the story of the
FEB.,1900.] Discussion of Supposed “Spirit-Photography.” 193
photograph public, “however much it might conﬂict with my own
utterances, public and private.”
Yet, for any one who really wishes both to “arrive at the truth,”
and also to speak it, something more even than a determination not
to be inﬂuenced by his own preconceived opinions seems needed ,
namely, a careful examination of any report before making it public.
It was in this respect alone that the methods of “ F. R. A. S.” were
—in our Journal—unfavourably contrasted with those of the Society
for Psychical Research ; and it is certainly desirable that persons who
are unwilling or unable to take such a precaution should “trouble
[their] brother-readers with no more stories of apparitions/’
“ F. R. A. S.” has—no doubt, by accident—omitted to mention
that it was through the Society for Psychical Research that he was
enabled to correct the mistakes made in his original version ; but this
omission is fully supplied in a letter from a Fellow of another learned
society in the English Mechanic of November 24th, as follows] :—
[43,052.]—As on former occasions “ F.R.A.S.” has rather disparaged the
Society for Psychical Research, I think it fair to mention that it is they
who, in their Journal for November, have taken the trouble to correct his
statements.
So far from the Society being devoted to superstitions, it is really devoted
to their study, the necessity for specialisation in which is shown by the
present instance. “ F.R.A.S.,” having fallen into the very natural error of
publishing such matter without laborious veriﬁcation, now announces that
in future he shall reject all similar stories without examination.
I write to point out that these are precisely the errors that have hitherto
prevented any exact knowledge in these outlying departments of psychology.
The whole region of folk-lore, whether superstitious or supernormal, will
never be either exploded or explained without plenty of hard work. And
whatever the outcome of the Society’s work may be, its subject-matter, the
human mind, is, as Stanley Jevons said, of more importance to mankind
than all “ F.R.A.S.’s ” stars and nebulae.
I have heard a leading physicist object to biological work as “ messy,U
and “F.R.A.S.” objects to this sort of psychology as “full of rogues and
dupes,” just as an ordinary pedestrian would object to rope-walking.
Psychical research is the slack-wire of the sciences, and if “F.R.A.S."
would become perfect in all the scientiﬁc virtues from agnosticism to
suspense of judgment, he cannot do better than engage in psychical research.
He will need them there as nowhere else.
A FRm.ow oF THE GEoLoGICAL SoCnrTY.
[Mr. T. E. Espin, who suggested that the “spirit ﬁgure ” in the
photograph might have been produced by reﬂection of the objects
1944 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1900.
near it, has, in reply to our inquiries, sent us the following account of
his experiments in reproducing the eﬁ'ects] :—
Tow Law, R.S.O., co. Durham, November 3rd, 1899.
In answer to your letter of Nov. 2nd, I regret that through my own
careless writing an incorrect impression is conveyed in the E.M., December
2nd, 1898, that the experiments there mentioned were made photographically,
whereas they were entirely cisual.
Perhaps it may be of interest to state how I came to the conclusion.
Shortly after my friend “ F.R.A.S.’s ” letter appeared, I was staying in
a house, and being much puzzled by it, narrated the story, when the lady of
the house informed me that she had a copy of the photo, and knew the lady
who took it. This copy she kindly placed at my disposal conditionally on
its not being reproduced, or lent. Some dozen years ago there was con
siderable interest in a photo taken in this neighbourhood of the exterior of
a house, and between the white curtains of an upper window appeared a
something, which the owner declared was the ﬁgure of a deceased relative
who occupied that room. I obtained a look at the photo and saw very little
resemblance to a man, and after examining the place found it was due to
the reﬂection of the chimney-pot of a house opposite ! Remembering this and
understanding that the library photo was above suspicion, I commenced to
examine the photo to see if any such cause was present. On turning the
photograph upside down and thereby eliminating all appearance of a human
ﬁgure, it seemed to me that the “ head” was but a reﬂection of the small
and narrow part of the middle window from the bowl of the stand, and the
“arm” of the small part of the stem. The back of the chair, and more
especially the bust in the window, curtail the light that would fall on the
stem of the stand. “ F.R.A.S.’s ” second letter made me attempt to repro
duce artiﬁcially the conditions, as mentioned in my letter to the EM. of
December 2nd. The results of the visual experiments seemed conclusive, as
they did also to some friends.
It is very interesting to ﬁnd that the exposure was a long one, as I
anticipated, and it is possible that the breadth of the head may be due to
the shift in the line of light.
Professor Barrett’s may, of course, be the correct explanation, but it
seems to me that there are diﬂiculties in the way. In the ﬁrst place the
chair is in the shade ; in the next the “ ﬁgure” is too low in the chair, and
in the third the disappearance of the whole of one side is inexplicable. It
may partly be explained by the continuous motion of the left arm as well as
the legs, but how many would know that to get this result such a con
tinuous motion was necessary ? Moreover, a movement of the arm would
leave the side still, and naturally, unless the person was left-handed, the
motion would be made with the right arm, not the left. The reﬂection
theory is not without its diﬂiculties, as “ F.R.A.S.” has pointed out to me
in a private letter, but my experiments seemed to me fairly conclusive that
it may have come about in this way.
T. E. EsPm.
FRn., 1900.] Case. 195
CASE.
P. 265.
The following extracts from Victor Hugo’s recently published
diary * may be of interest, especially as the central incident of the
account bears some resemblance to an experience given by Mrs.
A. W. Verrall in the Journal for November, 1899.
P. 350.—22 December (1870). Léopold has sent me thirteen fresh eggs.
P. 356.—5 January (1871). We were thirteen at table.
P. 358.—12 January. The “ pavillon dc Rohan ” [a restaurant] charges
me from to-day 8 francs a head for dinner. This, with the wine, coffee, ﬁre,
etc., brings the dinner to 13 francs per person. . . . . Dined with us
Schoelcher, Rochefort, Blum, and all our usual Thursday guests. We were
thirteen again.
P. 370.~14 February. We arrive at Bordeaux at 1.30 in the afternoon
of the 14th February. We start to look for rooms. We take :1 cab and go
from one hotel to another. Not a room to be had. I go to the Hdtel de
Ville and ask for information. I am told of a furnished apartment to lot at
the house of M. A. Porte, 13, Rue Saint-Maur, near the public gardens.
We go there. Charles takes the rooms at 600 francs a month, and pays
half-a-month’s rent in advance. Off we start again to look for a lodging for
ourselves, but cannot ﬁnd anything. At 7 o’clock we go back to the station
for the luggage, without knowing where we are to pass the night. We
return to the Rue Saint-Maur, where Charles is. Negociations with the
landlord and his brother, who has two rooms at 37, Rue de la Course, close
by. It ends by our coming to an arrangement. Alice made this remark:
“ The number 13 haunts us.”——Every Thursday in January we were thirteen
at table. We left Paris on the 13th February. VVe were thirteen in the
saloon carriage, counting Louis Blane, M. Béchet, and the two children.
We are staying at 13, Rue Saint-Maur l
P. 379. —13 March. This night I could not sleep, I meditated on numbers,
which was the subject of Pythagoras’ reveries. I was thinking of all these
thirteens oddly grouped and mingled with what we have been doing since the
1st January, and l was saying to myself as well that I should leave this
house where I am on the 13th March. At this instant the same nocturnal
knocking that I have already heard twice before in this room (three blows
like blows of a hammer on a board) was produced quite close to me.
We lunched at Charles’ house with Louis Blane.
I have been to see Rochefort. He is staying at 80, Rue Judaique;
he is recovering from an attack of erysipelas, which had for a short time
threatened to be dangerous. With him were M.M. Alexis Bouvier and
Mourot, whom I invited to dine with me to-day. I asked them to convey
an invitation from me to M.M. Claretie, Guillemot, and Germain Casse,
with whom I should like to shake hands before I leave.
* (Euvres inédites dc Victor Hug0.—Oh°scs Vues. Nouvelle Série. (Paris,
Calmann Lévy. 1900.)
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Fm;.,1900.
After leaving Rochefort’s house I strolled a little about Bordeaux. . .
At 6.30 I went to the Lanta Restaurant. Bouvier, Mourot, and
Casse arrive. Then Alice. Charles keeps us waiting.
7 p.m. Charles is dead.
The waiter who attends on me at the Lanta Restaurant came in and said
that some one wished to see me. I went out of the room. In the hall I
found M. Porte, who is Charles’ landlord at 13, Rue Saint-Maur. M. Porte
told me to send away Alice, who was following me. Alice went back into
the salon. M. Porte said to me : “ Monsieur, be brave. Monsieur
Charles.” . . .—‘‘Well ? ”—“ He is dead.”
Dead ! I didn’t believe it. Charles ! . . . I leaned against the wall.
M. Porte told me that Charles had taken a cab to come to Lanta’s, and
had ordered the driver to go ﬁrst to the Café de Bordeaux.
On arriving at the Café de Bordeaux the cabman had opened the door
and discovered Charles dead. Charles had been seized with a ﬁt of
apoplexy. Death was instantaneous. Some blood-vessel had broken.
He was bathed in blood, which was ﬂowing from his nose and mouth.
A doctor was summoned, and pronounced life extinct.
I would not believe it. I said: “ It is a case of coma.’ I still clung
to hope. I went back into the salon, told Alice I should be back again
directly, and hurried to the Rue Saint-Maur.
Scarcely had I arrived when in they brought Charles. Alas ! my darling
Charles ! He was dead.
I have been to fetch Alice. What despair !
The two little children are asleep.
14 March. I read over what I wrote on the morning of the 13th about
this knocking heard at night.
1
Victor Hugo’s superstitious musings on the night of March 13th
may have served as a suitable emotional preparation for his reception
of a warning of coming misfortune, which was perhaps supernormally
conveyed through the knockings.
The successive entries show that for more than eight weeks before
the death of his son, and some four weeks at least before the ﬁrst of
the knockings was heard, his mind was beginning to dwell upon
the repeated intrusion of the number 13 into the incidents of his
daily life.
The present of 13 eggs, however, recorded on December 22nd,
1870, does not seem to have struck either Victor or Alice Hugo as of
ill omen ; though, to be consistent, all “ thirteens” ought to count,
whether connected with agreeable associations or not. But the chief
interest of the story of course lies in the possibly veridical character
of the knockings.
The diary contains no mention of the dates on which, or of the
circumstances under which, the ﬁrst two knockings occurred. But it
Fms.,1900.] Premature Generalisations about Telepathy. 197
can be inferred from the narrative that they must have happened
between February 14th and March 12th ; roughly, four weeks. In
Mrs. Verrall’s case (see Journal for November, 1899) the tickings were
in two instances heard at intervals during (1) three weeks, and (2)
three or four months. The sounds heard by Victor Hugo were not
tickings, but loud blows, and may have been produced in some quite
commonplace manner.
J. G. SMITH.
PREMATURE GENERALISATIONS ABOUT TELEPATHY.
(Continued from the January “ Journal,” 10. 176.)
The last number of the Journal contained a reprint of an article by
an American writer, Mr. Edmund Willson Roberts, on “Successful
Attempts in Scientiﬁc Mind-Reading,” purporting to give general
rules, deduced from the writer’s personal experience, for cultivating
the telepathic faculty. A careful examination of Mr. Roberts’
methods, however, by Professor Newbold showed,—as might perhaps
have been expected,—that his rules were based on nothing beyond
a priori theories and that he had failed to allow for various sources
of error which vitiated his results.
Professor Newbold’s account is as follows :—
In the second week of February, 1899, a gentleman presented himself to
me, and informed me that his name was E. W. Roberts, that he not only
was possessed of telepathic powers himself, but was also able to develop
similar powers in any person who would submit to his instructions. He
gave me the details of several series of experiments in which he claimed to
have had remarkable success, and stated, as further proof of the truth of his
claims, that an article embodying his experience had been recently accepted
by the Cosmopolitan .Magazinc.* He asked me to invite some of my friends
to meet him, and to give him an opportunity of demonstrating his powers
to us.
On the evening of Saturday, February 18th, Mr. Roberts met in my
house Dr. Lightner Witmer, Assistant Professor of Psychology ; Mr. E. W.
Mumford, Registrar ; Mr. Verner Nisbet, a student of medicine, and myself.
Mr. Roberts brought with him an instrument which he called a “ tele
poscope.” It was a wooden box about 18 inches in length, 3 inches in depth,
and varying in width from about 3 inches at the narrower end to about 6
inches at the wider. It was covered within and without with black cloth.
The narrower end was cut in such a manner as to ﬁt closely to the brow and
about the eyes, and the wider end was arranged with a slit in which the slip
* This article appeared in the March number of that magazine.
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1900.
of paper bearing the number in question could be placed, thus receiving its
illumination from behind, through the paper. Mr. Roberts said that this
instrument would be found of use in concentrating the agent’s attention
and thereby facilitating the transmission of a telepathic impression to the
percipient.
After a somewhat rambling introduction, in which he repeated the sub
stance of the statements which he had already made to me, he began a series
of experiments under the following conditions :—
The percipient was seated in a chair at the extreme end of the room, with his
back to the group of agents. The group of agents sat at the other end of the
room, facing the back of the percipient. Immediately in front of the agents was
a table. Mr. Roberts had with him a series of numbers from 1 to 30. These
had been cut from a large wall calendar, and displayed the number in white
upon a black ground, with the exception of the number 4 which was in red
upon a black ground, the numbers having been taken from the month of
July. Mr. Roberts selected the ﬁrst nine digits and then threw out the
numbers 9 and 6, upon the ground that these were frequently confused by
the percipient. This reduced the numbers from which choice was to be
made to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8. Of these Mr. Roberts chose four, and told
the percipient which four he had selected, thus restricting the limit of choice
to those four. The number to be guessed was then chosen by one of the
agents from the four. The paper square bearing the number was propped up
on the table, facing the agents, and in a good light. The agents were
instructed simply to consider the number, and not to endeavour to will its
perception by the percipient. The percipient was allowed two guesses.
Under these conditions the results were as follows :—
Percipient, L. Witmer, the other four being the agents :—
RANGE oF CHoICE. To BE GUEssED. GUEssEs.
1,2,m8 ... W W 7... M ... 7
1,2,a8 ... ... W 8m W W 2,8
L2,a7 m M m1.. .. W 27
At this point I objected that the selection by the agents of the numbers
to be guessed opened the door to unconscious identical preference on both
sides, and therefore vitiated the results, and that the restriction of the
guesses to the seven above-mentioned digits also tended to vitiate the
results. In deference to these objections we agreed that we should draw by
chance from the ten digits the four numbers from which choice was to be
made, and from the four thus chosen, draw again by chance the one which
was to be guessed. The percipient was, however, told the four numbers
which had been drawn, one of which he was to guess. The next experiment
under these conditions with Dr. Witmer resulted as follows :—
RANGE oF CHoICE. To BE GUEssED. GUEssEs.
aaam W M 5M W ... mm
E. W. Mumford, percipient; four numbers chosen at random from the
thirty ; other conditions as before :—
RANGE oF CHoICE. To BE GUEsSED. GUEssEs.
mmwmm m%...m W mu
FEB.,1900.] Premature Generalisations about Telepathy. 199
Mr. Roberts objected that this series of numbers was too great, and
proposed returning to the digits. To this we consented.
Lea8m 8 WL8
1, 2,3,4 4 .. 3,2
1, 3, 5, 7 . 5 5
E. W. Roberts, pereipient ; same conditions :—
1, 2, 5, 8 2 .. 5, 1
2, 3, 4,5 5 ..4,5
2, 4, 7,8 4 .. 7,4
2, 4, 5, 7 4 .. 2, -
Leas. 1... a1
At this point Mr. Roberts expressed himself as dissatisﬁed with the
conditions, and proposed that the numbers should be chosen by the agents,
and not drawn by chance. We again consented :—
1, 2, 7, 8 7 2, 7
2, 3, 5, 8 3 5, 8
V. Nisbet, 7>erc'ipient; Mr. Roberts, agent, alone, choosing the numbers
and putting them in his “ teleposcope ” :—
NUMBERs CHosEN. To BE GUI-zssRn. emsssRs.
3, 9, 1, 5 9 9
1, 2, 3, 10... 10 10
5, 6, 7,8 5 6,7
The range of choice for the four numbers was now extended to the series
of thirty.
27, 15, 2, 7 27 2, 7
Mr. Roberts claimed this as a success on the ground that both elements
of the number had been guessed.
Percipienf, W. R. Newbold ; same conditions :—
Being by this time satisﬁed that the successful results were due to chance
coincidence and not to telepathy, I did not watch for telepathic inﬂuences,
but deliberately guessed the number which I thought Mr. Roberts would be
most likely to choose.
1,5,7,8 W ... ... 8 W ... W ... 8
L2,a7W W ...7... W ... mz7
4,5,e,11... ... W 11 ... ... W ... 11
5,10,20,30 ... ... 20 ... ... W ... 20
It was now decided to extend the range of choice from four numbers to
thirty, the number to be guessed being drawn by Mr. Mumford, and put
into the “ teleposcope ” by Mr. Roberts, who alone acted as agent.
Number drawn 29 Guesses 21, 14, 19
Percipieut, Dr. Witmer ; same conditions :—
Number drawn 4 Guesses 15, 19, 14
,, ,, 1 ,, 30, 27, 16
,, ,, 4 ,, 13, 8, 5
Percipient, W. R. Newbold ; same conditions :—
Number drawn 12 Guesses 15, 17, 26
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB.,1900.
After ﬁnishing these experiments, Mr. Roberts suggested that we should
try “ mind reading,” in which he said he had been very successful. He him
self prescribed the method. Dr. Witmer and Mr. Mumford served as agents.
Mr. Roberts grasped the agent’s hand, and told him to allow his thoughts to
dwell upon some one topic. Mr. Roberts then closed his eyes, and described
the pictures which, he said, were drifting before his mind. We did not time
these experiments, but I should judge that each lasted from three to ﬁve
minutes. In neither case did Mr. Roberts’ alleged visions bear the least
relation to what the agent was thinking about.
After the other three gentlemen had left, I had a long conversation with
Mr. Roberts. I told him that the experiments showed not a sign of tele
pathy, and pointed out the secret of so many successful results, namely,
that the restriction of the choice to the four numbers gave the guesser one
chance in four; that by giving him two guesses the chance of success was
increased to one chance in two; that the agent in selecting the numbers
might be guided by certain trivial preferences which would be equally felt
by the percipient. Mr. Roberts seemed downcast and ill at ease, did not
deny—-indeed tacitly admitted—the truth of all I had to say, but was inclined
to recount the remarkable success which he had had in his other experiments.
I made no comment upon his stories, but urged him in all seriousness not
to undertake to make alivelihood by the exhibition of his telepathic powers.
I told him that if he once embarked in such a career he would be stamped
as a fraud by all persons of intelligence, and would soon ﬁnd the doors
leading to an honest livelihood closed to him. The only reply he made to
this was to ask me whether I thought there would be any dishonesty in his
accepting money for teaching the methods of experimentation, provided he
made no claims to the possession of telepathic powers. I told him that I
would not regard it as dishonest, but advised him to observe that in the
experiments which we had just ﬁnished, certain vital errors had been found
in the methods of experimentation, which, as he himself admitted, entirely
vitiated the results, and that none of these errors had been pointed out by
him ; that on the contrary he had obviously relied upon them for the attain
ment of the successful results. This also he admitted, so far as related to
the series of experiments just concluded, but declared that he still felt conﬁ
dence in the results which he had secured before. When we parted he
seemed very much depressed. He called on me again, about ten days later,
and asked me if I would be willing to arrange for some long distance experi
ments with him. I told him that I was too busy to do anything of the kind
at Present (Signed), WM. RoMAINE NEWBoLD,
Asst. Prof. Phil. Univ. of Penna.
We certify that the above account of the experiments with Mr. Roberts,
in which we took part, is in accordance with our recollection of the
circumstances. E W MUMFoRD
- c \
Univ. of Penna.
LIGHTNER W1m/mR.
VERNER NIsBET.
No. CLXVII.—VQL. IX. MAsoH, 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RESEARGH.
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 20I
Annual General Meeting: of Members of the Society .. .. .. .. . . .. 202
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 203
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 204
Obituary : John Ruskin . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 208
Balance Sheet for the year I899 2II
Further “Reﬂections on Mrs. Piple-r and Telepathy::': a'-partial Reply to..Mr. Andrew
Lang. By Professor oliver Lodge .. .. .. .. . .. 2I2
MEMBERS AND SOCIATE S.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
VICE-PRESIDENT.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., 7, Kensington Park-gardens-
London, W.
HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
FALCoMER, PRoFEssoR M. T., Regio Instituto Tecnik, Alessandria.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
BoWER, JAMEs G-ARToN, JUNR., Earlham House, Norwich.
Hamilton, Bernard, M.A., Hindhead Brae, Haslemere, Surrey.
MITCHELL, MAJoR, Ballynure, Grange Con, co. Wicklow, Ireland.
MITCHELL, HARRY, 74, Queen’s-road, Dalston, London, N.E. '
NUGENT, J0HN, I.C.S. (Retired), 13, Elm Park-gardens, London, S.W.
VENABLEs, REv. HERBERT A., M.A., 28,Viale Principe Amedeo, Florence.
WILD, ERNEsT E., B.A., LL.M., 1, Garden-court, Temple, London, E.C.
WooDHULL, MIss ZULA MAUD, 17, Hyde Park-gate, London, W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ADAMs, MIss C. C. , 426, Central Park, West, New York, N.Y.
ALLEN, C. S., Rooms 114—115, Burr Block, Lincoln, Neb.
202 Journal of Society for Psyclulcal Research. [Mm.,1900.
DANFoRTH, MRs. HENRY, 535, West-avenue, Rochester, N.Y.
DAvENPoRT, DR. H. J., Lincoln, Neb.
DoUGHERTY, DR. G. F., Neoga, Ill.
HILL, DR. A. Ross, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Neb.
LEoNARD, B. C. F., Galveston, Texas.
LoWRY, DR. H. B., Lincoln, Neb.
SrsRmNs, MRs. JoHN, Cazenovia, N.Y.
STEvENs, DR. J. F., Lincoln, Neb.
White, Miss Clarissa, Gambier, Ohio
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS OF
THE SOCIETY.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society for
Psychical Research was held at the Westminster Town Hall on
January 26th, at 3 p.m., the President, Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.,
in the chair.
The Notice convening the Meeting was read.
The PREsIDENT said that this was the fourth Annual Meeting of
the Members of the Society since its incorporation. Six Members of
the Council retired by rotation, all of whom offered themselves for re
election. No other nominations having been made, he had only to
declare that they were again duly elected Members of the Council,
namely :—The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, M.P., Professor W. F.
Barrett, F.R.S., The Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, K.T., F.R.S.,
Dr. Walter Leaf, Professor Macalister, M.D., F.R.S , and Mr.
H. Arthur Smith.
The President further remarked that he had before him an audited
statement of the Income and Expenditure of the Society during 1899,
which would, as usual, be printed in the Journal. The statement of
Assets and Liabilities on December 31st, 1899, showed a slight
improvement in the position of the Society during the year, inde
pendent of the increasing value of the Library and of the stock of
Proceedings. _
The President went on to say, in reference to the present position
of the Society, that the number of elections during last year was 69.
Against these were to be set an unusually large number of removals
by death, 24, and a considerable number of resignations from various
causes at the end of the year, showing the total number of names of
all classes on the list of the Society on January 1st, 1900, to be 946,
being a nominal increase of 11 during the year.
Mm, 1900.] Meeting of the Council. 203
A large number of elections to the American Branch took place
during 1899, resulting in a substantial addition, notwithstanding some
deaths and resignations. The number of Members at the commence
ment of the present year was 472, showing a net increase of over
50 during 1899.
There being no response to an invitation for remarks from the
Members present, the President declared the Meeting closed.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the close of the Annual General Meeting above
reported. The PREsIDENT, Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., occupied the
chair. There were also present, Mr F. Podmore, Mr. Sydney C. Scott,
Professor H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr. J. G. Smith, and
Dr. A. Wallace.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Report was made that the Annual General Meeting had been held
and that Members of Council had been elected as stated above.
Sir William Crookes having expressed a wish to retire from the
Presidency of the Society, Mr. F. W. H. Myers was elected as
President for the ensuing year.
Mr. J. G. Smith was elected as Hon. Secretary, Mr. H. Arthur
Smith was re-elected as Hon. Treasurer, and Mr. Arthur Miall as
Auditor for the ensuing year.
The following were co~opted as Members of Council for the
ensuing year :—Mr. M. Crackanthorpe, Q.C., Hon. E. Feilding, Dr.
R. Hodgson, Mr. Registrar Hood, Mr. C. F. G. Masterman, Mr. St.
George Lane Fox Pitt, Dr. G. F. Rogers, Mr. J. G. Smith, Dr. C. Lloyd
Tuckey, and Dr. A. Wallace
Sir VVilliam Crookes, F.R.S., was elected a Vice-President of the
Society.
It was agreed that the name of the Hypnotic Committee should
be changed to that of Committee for Experiments.
Committees were elected as follows, with power to add to their
number :—
Committee of Reference.—Professor W. F. Barrett, Sir W. Crookes,
Dr. R. Hodgson, Dr. W. Leaf, Professor 0. J. Lodge, Mr. F. W. H.
Myers, Lord Rayleigh, Professor H. Sidgwick, Professor J. J.
Thomson, Dr. J. Venn, and Mrs. Verrall.
204' Journat of Society for Paychical Research. [Mnz.,1900.
Library Committee.—Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, Hon. E. Feilding,
M1. F. W. H. Myers, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
Committee for ]]a:perimen.ts.—Dr. A. W. Barrett, Dr. J. Milne
Bramwell, Hon. E. Feilding, Dr. R. Hodgson, Dr. W. Leaf, Mr. St.
George Lane Fox Pitt, Mr. F. Podmore. Mr. J. G. Smith, Dr. C. Lloyd
Tuckey, Dr. A. Wallace, and Mr. E. Westlake.
House and Finance C0mmittee.—Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H.
Arthur Smith, and Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor.
The existing lists of Corresponding Members and of Honorary
Associates were conﬁrmed for the ensuing year, with the addition of
Professor M. T. Falcomer, elected as an Honorary Associate.
One new Member and seven new Associates were elected. The
election of one new Member and ten new Associates of the American
Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
The Council recorded with great regret the death of Mr. John
Ruskin, who had been an Honorary Member of the Society almost
from its commencement. '
The resignation of one Member and sixteen Associates, who for
various reasons desired to terminate their connection with the Society
at the end of 1899, was accepted.
Some presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donors.
The audited Statement of Accounts was referred to the House and
Finance Committee, who were requested to prepare an estimate of
Income and Expenditure for the current year, and present it with their
report to the next meeting of the Council.
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Council should be held
on Friday, the 2nd of March, at 19, Buckingham Street, W.C., at
4.30 p.m.
GENERAL ME ETING.
The lO3rd General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Westminster Town Hall on Friday, January 26th, at 4 p.m. ; SIR
WILLIAM CRooKEs in the chair.
The Chairman announced that Mr. F. W. H. Myers had been
elected President of the Society for the present year.
MR. F. PoDMoRE read a paper on “ Witchcraft and Poltergeists.”
He began by explaining that Poltergeist is a term that it has been
found convenient to apply to those spontaneous outbreaks of stone
throwing, movements of furniture, bell-ringing, and the like, which
MAR, 1900.] General Meeting. 205
occur from time to time, and have occurred for many generations past,
chieﬂy in villages and remote country districts. In the inquiries
undertaken by the Society these outbreaks form an important feature ;
ﬁrst, because they form the nearest, practically the only, analogy
to the physical manifestations occurring in the presence of Home,
Eusapia Paladino, and other mediums; and, in the second place,
because, as a matter of historical fact, the movement of modern
Spiritualism in its present form had its rise in Poltergeist manifesta
tions of the ordinary type.
Mr. Podmore then referred brieﬂy to the Rochester knockings of
1848 (from which Modern Spiritualism is commonly dated) and to the
less known case, occurring a year or two later, in the house of Mr.
Phelps, a clergyman, in Stratford, Connecticut. In the last-named
case, stones, turnips, and brickhats were thrown about, windows were
broken, the ﬁre-irons and tables are said to have moved about of their
own accord, and one of the family to have been carried through the
air. Spirit-writings were found about the house, and so on.
He then drew attention to the fact that in these two cases, as
in the great majority, these Poltergeist disturbances centred round
young children, who must be regarded, according to the view taken,
either as the authors in their own proper persons of the disturbances,
or the “mediums” for the occult agencies. Generally, then, the
authors or mediums were children, mostly girls; more rarely they
were young women; rarely adults—and practically never adult men.
Modern Spiritualism may be said to have originated in the activi
ties, mediumistic or other, of young children.
Now if we examine the witchcraft literature of the 16th and 17th
centuries, we are struck by the same characteristics—the prominence
assumed by young children. Sometimes, as in the well-known case,
quoted in Glanvil’s Sadducismus Triumphatus, of Moira in Sweden, and
that of Antoinette Bourignon’s school at Lisle, the children merely
accused themselves of witchcraft. Such self-accusation was not rare even
amongst adults, and the more impressionable imaginations of children
would naturally be worked upon more rapidly and more effectively by
the permanent possibilities of suggestion in their environment.
But the typical case of witchcraft, at any rate in the English
speaking countries, during the period referred to, was not of this kind.
If we exclude such cases of witchcraft persecution as originated in
direct interference from without—royal, priestly, or professional—e.g.,
cases of the numerous “ witc-hﬁnders,” of whom Matthew Hopkins was
the most notorious: if we exclude all such cases, and ﬁx our atten
tion only on the cases which occur spontaneously, most commonly
206 Journal of Society for P8?/0'L’l0(Ll Research. [MAR., 1900.
in country districts, we shall ﬁnd that their course was something
of this kind. A little boy, or more commonly, little girl, conceived
a dislike or horror of some old woman in the neighbourhood: as we
should say now, the old woman got on the child’s nerves. Some
chance encounter or unforeseen incident would bring on a climax;
the child would go into ﬁts, which the country doctors who were
called in found themselves unable either to diagnose or to cure.
In these ﬁts the child would continually call on the old woman’s
name. The paroxysms would increase in violence if the old woman
approached, would diminish when, on this showing. backed by some
intangible triﬂe called “ corroborative evidence,” the old woman was
apprehended ; and would be ﬁnally cured when the old woman was
executed.
Some illustrative cases were then quoted from Glanvil and other
16th and 17th century writers : A Poor Woman’s Boy at Droitwich,
in 1649, who was struck dumb because he came suddenly on an old
woman behind a bush, who said “Boh” to him. Richard Jones,
of Shepton Mallet, aged twelve, who was asked by Jane Brooks for a
piece of close bread, and received an apple in return : the boy ate of
the apple, became seriously ill, and called upon Jane Brooks in his
tits; and when his father scratched Jane .Brooks’s face became
immediately the better of the attacks. Further, a neighbourstruck
with a knife at a corner of the room, where Richard said that he saw
Jane’s apparition: and Jane Brooks was straightway discovered by
the village constable nursing a recent wound which the knife exactly
ﬁtted.
In many cases, which Mr. Podmore brieﬂy touched upon, the child’s
ﬁts were accompanied by vomiting of pins, straw, nails, stubble, etc. :
by throwing of stones, movements of furniture, and even of the
bewitched girl herself. In these cases we get very near to modern
Poltergeists.
Finally a detailed account was given of the well-known Drummer
of Tedworth, which the speaker described as admirably marking the
transition stage between the witchcraft cases and the modern Polter
geist.
In the Tedworth case the disturbances,—as is clear from Glanvil’s
account, read critically,—centred round the children, two little girls;
and the manifestations were, as far as can be gathered, much like those
that occur in any country village nowadays—furniture upset, stones
and Bible thrown about, rappings and noises on the wooden frame
of the bedstead where the children lay, and loud noises of all kinds
about the house. But in this case the disturbances were referred, not
Man, 1900.] General Itleeting. _ 207
to the agency of the children, but to the malevolence of the imprisoned
drummer.
After the 17th century, however, the reference to a supposed
witch or wizard as the author of the disturbances disappears. In the
Wesley case, the Stockwell case, the Cook Lane Ghost, and other
typical Poltergeist cases, we hear no more of witchcraft. It is a
unembodied spirit—human or elﬁsh—who is now supposed to be
responsible for the outbreak.
But the phenomena are essentially the same. It is true that
psuedo-epileptic ﬁts and vomiting of pins have gone out of fashion;
the least enlightened of country apothecaries could hardly fail nowa
days to diagnose such attacks as compounded of hysteria and ill
temper. And the other manifestations have developed with the
demands of the environment. But the motive power, whether ascribed
by the spectator to the malevolence of witchcraft, the trickery of
spirits, or the action of mysterious forces, is essentially the same.
The mischievous child who nowadays throws surreptitious stones or
upsets a chair when no one (except Mr. Westlake) is looking, is the
spiritual descendant of the child whose sickly fancies and hysterical
spite brought about the death of many an unoﬂending old woman in
the days of the witchcraft persecutions.
MR. ADoLPHE SMITH said that he thought it would be interesting
to hear what evidence there was for the alleged phenomena. No doubt
many of them might be attributed to the power of self-suggestion; but
many others of the cases cited, e.g., that of Jane Brooks, seemed to go
far beyond this.
MR. PoDMoRE replied that in the present paper he had not been
attempting to discuss the evidence for the real occurrence of the
phenomena referred to, but merely to show the analogy between what
was supposed to occur in witchcraft cases and in modern Poltergeist
cases. As to the question of evidence, it was true that there was an
enormous amount of tradition, e.g., about wounds produced in human
beings as a result of injuries inﬂicted at a distance on the form of the
animal supposed to represent them ; but he had met with nothing that
could be called evidence for such : that is, the evidence was never given
at ﬁrst-hand ; even in the testimony given by the most uneducated
peasants, there was practically no first-hand evidence for these
occurrences.
A paper by Mr. F. C. S. SCHILLER ‘- On Some Philosophic Assump
tions in the Investigation of the Problem of a Future Life ” was then
read by MR. J. G. SMITH. This paper has since appeared in the
Proceedings, Part XXXVI.
208 Journal of Society for Peychical Research. [MAR.,1900.
OBITUARY.
JOHN RUSKIN.
£2 05708, oz$'ro:, OiBi1rovs, fl péhhopev
- , - , - - ,
xwpew; 1ra7\aL 317 ra1ro (T00 Bpadvvcrat.
Ruskin, then, has sunk to rest. The bracken and bilberries of the
Lake-land which he loved so well have hidden the mortal shape of
the greatest man of letters, the loftiest inﬂuence which earth still
retained ;—have enwrapped “the man dear to the Muses, and by the
Nymphs not unbeloved.” ‘
' r<‘>v Mdnrats ¢ih°v é'v8pa, ‘rim 0i': Nii/,l.¢aw'w d1rtx0F].
We may rejoice that the long waiting is over; but memory all the
more “goes slipping back to that delightful time ” when he was with
us in his force and ﬁre; when it was still granted to hearken to his
utterance ; to feel the germ of virtue quickened by his benignant soul.
For those who had the privilege of knowing Ruskin, the author came
second to the man ; and in this brief notice of his Honorary Member
ship of our Society I may perhaps be pardoned if I dwell in remin
iscence, without attempting any formal review.
I met him ﬁrst in my own earliest home, beneath the spurs of
Skiddaw,—its long slopes “ bronzed with deepest radiance,” as the boy
Wordsworth had seen them long since in even such an evening’s glow.
Since early morning Ruskin had lain and wandered in the folds and
hollows of the hill ; and he came back grave as from a solemn service
from day-long gazing on the heather and the blue. Later came many
another scene ;—pacings in the Old Court of Trinity with Edmund
Gurney, who met those generous paradoxes with humorous play;
graver hours at Oxford, in the sick room of the Duke of Albany,
who, coming back to earth-life from perilous illness, found nowhere a
guidance ﬁtter than Ruskin’s for eager and royal youth.
But chieﬂiest I think of him in that home of high thoughts where
his interest in our inquiry ﬁrst upgrew. For the introduction to the
new hope came to him, as to Edmund Gurney and to myself, through
a lady whom each of us held in equal honour; and it was on the
stately lawns of Broadlands, and in that air as of Sabbatical repose,
that Ruskin enjoyed his one brief season,—since the failure of his
youthful Christian conﬁdence,—of blissful trust in the Unseen. To
one among that company a vision came,—as of a longed-for meeting
of souls beloved in heaven,—a vision whose detail and symbolism
carried conviction to Ruskin’s heart. While that conviction abode
MAR.,1900.] Obituary: John Ruskin. 209
—.
with him he was happy as a child ,- but presently he suffered what all
are like to sulfer who do not keep their minds close pressed to actual
evidence by continuous study. That impress faded; and leaving the
unseen world in its old sad uncertainty, he went back to the mission
which was laid on him,—that mission of humanising this earth, and
being humanised thereby, which our race must needs accomplish,
whatever be the last doom of man.
Earth ﬁlls his lap with pleasures of her own ;
Yearnings she hath 1n her own natural kind ;
And even with something of a Mother's mind
And no unworthy aim,
The homely Nurse doth all she can
To make her Foster-child, her Inmate Man,
Forget the glories he hath known,
And that imperial palace whence he came.
But Ruskin’s task,—however it might be pursued in forgetfulness
of that unrememberable home,—was surely still the task (as Bacon
called it) “to prepare and adorn the bride-chamber of the mind and
the universe” ; and that MELIoR NATURA which seemed to be Ruskin’s,
as it was Bacon’s, divinity has never shone more radiantly upon the
inward shrine of any lover of men. It was half in jest that I would
complain to him that to Earth he gave up what was meant for Iniinity,
and bent a cosmic passion upon this round wet pebble of rock and sea.
“ Ah, my friend ! ” he answered once when I spoke of life to come, “ if
you could only give me ﬁfty years longer of this life on earth, I would
ask for nothing more!” And half that season was granted to him,
and all in vain ;—for what Tithonus may tread for ever unweary the
“ gleaming halls of Morn ” ?
Then as that fervent life wore on, Ruskin turned more and more
from the outward pageant to the human passion; from Alp and sunset
to the sterner beauty of moral law. From the publication of Unto this
Last one may trace that slowly-growing revolt against the Age which
led him to preach in the end with such despairing emphasis the duty
of protest, of renunciation, of sheer self-severance from most of the
tendencies of Inodern life. The strength of this emotion in him was
made, I remember, strangely plain on one occasion, when some of those
who cared most for him had clubbed together, at Lord Mount-Temple’s
suggestion, to surprise him, on his recovery from a serious illness, with
the present of a picture of Turner’s, which he had once possessed and
still dearly loved, but of which he had despoiled himself to meet some
generous impulse. Never were givers more taken aback by the issue
of their gift. For the sudden sight of the lovely landscape hung in his
210 .I0u'r'nat of Society/ for 1’sy/cl:/iuu.l Iieseu/rah. [MAR., 1900.
bedroom drew from him a letter of almost heart-broken pain,—at the
thought that those whom he would so fain have helped,—who were
thus willing to do this thing, or almost anything, to please him,—were
yet not willing to do that other thing for their own souls’ sake ;—to
come out from the iniquity,—to shake oﬂ' the baseness of the age,—
to bind themselves in the St. George’s Guild with that small remnant
who clung to things pure and true. '
Indeed there was something naive, something childlike, in his
Brotherhoods, his Leagues, his solemn Covenants against the onﬂowing
tide of things ;—but a stern reality beneath all this became strongly
present to us then ;—a deep compassion for the lonely heart, which so
much needed love, yet could scarcely accept a fellowship in love which
was not also a fellowship in all that he held for virtue.
There are some who fear lest too pervading a belief in that other
world may make men indifferent to the loveliness and irresponsive to
the woes of this. Yet must that needs be so? or might we not treat
even this world’s problems with steadier heart, could we regain,—from
some surer foothold in the Invisible,—that ancient serenity of the
Saints? Watching that ardent soul, whose very raptures trembled on
the brink of pain, I have thought that even from Ruskin’s delight in
Nature something of bitter yearning might have been soothed away,
could he have seen in stream and moorland, nay even in
' great Skiddaw’s self, who shrouds
His double head among Atlantic clouds,
And pours forth streams more sweet than Castaly ;—
could he have seen, I say, in these, as Plato saw in Castaly or in
Hymettus, only the transitory adumbration and perishing symbol of
somewhat more enduring and more fair. Nay, even from his com
passion for stunted and e1.-ring souls might not the burning pain have
gone, could he have seen those souls as Er the Paphlagonian saw them,
marshalled in an everlasting order, of which but a moment’s glimpse
is shown ;—till even “this last” of men shall follow out, through all
vicissitude, his endless and his mounting way?
And turning then, with heart full of such-like fancies, to that
well-loved Leader’s fate ;~imagining his batﬂed isolation, and the
disheartenment of solitary years ;—I have pictured him waiting in
the Coniston woodlands, as (Edipus in Colonus’ grove,—waiting in
mournful memory, in uncomplaining calm,—till he should hear at
last the august summons,—nay, sounded it not like the loving
banter ?—of the unguessed accompanying God. “ Come, (Edipus, why
linger on our journey? Thou hast kept me waiting long.”
F. W. H. M.
[n
I
i-{WW .668;
M021
9?);
.LQ,l
;wayg
aourqng IIZ
THE
SOCIETY
FOR
PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
INCOME
AND
EXPENDITURE
ACCOUNT
FOR
THE
YEAR
ENDING
31st
DECEMBER,
1899.
ﬁr.
I899.
Jan.1.—To
Cash
Balance
brought
forward from
last
account
268
3
11
10
0
0
1!
Dec.
31
.—~-,,
n I! n n n n n
,,
in
hands
of
Secretary Subscriptions:—
£
s.
d.
Members
(1898)
6
6
0
n
(1899)
260
8
0
,
,
(1900)
8
8
0
Associates
(1898)
23
2
0
,,
(1899)
429
9
0 ,,
(1900)
36
15
0
Life
Sul
scription
,,
Donations
n 19
9!
Publications
:—
Per
Kegan
Paul.
Trench,
Triibner
&
Co.
(July
1898,
to
June,
1899)
,,
Secretary
(1899) ,,
Sec.
of
American
Branch Supplies
to
Members
of
American
Branch
(July
1,
mes,
to
June
30,
1899)...
Sales
in
America(Ju1y
1,
1898,
to
Dec.
31,
1898)
Interest
on
Investment
£
s.
d.
275
2 489
6 497
0 MP
£
s.
d. 278
3
11 764
8
0 10
10
0 15
4
1 18710
9 84
7
10 £1,340
4
7
Q11‘.
1899.
Dec.
31.—By
Literary
\Vork
H 71
n n n U n n n n
71
n n n H n n u n
0
15
s.
d.
.9
s.
d.
37
6
1
Editorial
Work
100
0
0
Library
9
15
0 Printing
:—
Proceedings,
Part
XXXIV.
117
3
6
,,
,,
XXXV.
235
13
0
,,
,,
XVII.(Reprint)
58
0
0
,.
,,
XXXIII.
,,
105
0
0
Journal,
Nos.
154~164
100
G
0
Title
Page,
Index
(1’roc.Vol.
XIV.)
5
6
6 ,,
,,
,,
(Jour.Vol.VIlI.)
4
15
0
General..
13
13
4
-—
639
17
4
Covers
and
Binding
10
14
7
Early
Nos.
of
Journal
1
4
0
General
Meetings
39
2
0
Advertising
..
1
10
0
Salary
to
Secretary
(12
mos.
to
Sept.,
1899),
and
Commission
on
Subscriptions,
&c.
(1898)
152
6
0
Rent
(12
months
to
Michaelmas,
1899)
45
0
0
Housekeeper
(12
months,
19,
Buckingham-st.)
15
0
0
Reading
Room
and
Stationery
6
10
5
Storage
of
Proceedings
..
6
0
0
Furnishing...
1
18
3
Postage
(Secretary’s)
65
7
7
,,
(Publications
to
America,
Branch
a/c)
18
15
0
Gas...
2
7
9
General
Ex
nses
44
O
7
Balance
in
ands
of
Treasurer
£133
10
0 ,,
,,
Secretary
10
0
0
—
143
10
£1,340
4
7
212 Jowrmal of Society for Psycluical Research. [MAB., 1900.
I have examined the Books of Account of the Society, and certify that
they are in accordance with the above Statement. The Treasurer's certi
ﬁcate as to the cheques in his hands and uncollected on December 31st,
1899, together with the Balance. as shown by the pass-book, agree with the
above Statement.
I have seen vouchers for all cheque payments, and the Certiﬁcate of the
East Indian Railway Irredeemable Stock, representing the Invested Funds
f the Societ .
o y ARTHUR MIALL, F.C.A., Auditor.
23, St. Swithin’s Lane, London, E.C.,
January 22nd, 1900.
FURTHER “REFLECTIONS ON MRS. PIPER AND
TELEPATHY : ”
A partial reply to Mr. Andrew Lang.
BY PRoFEssoR OLIvER LoDGE.
Mr. Andrew Lang’s criticism (Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXXVL,
p. 39) of Mrs. Piper’s trance utterances is in many ways interesting,
especially as coming from one who has taken the trouble to study the
whole subject from the historical and literary standpoint, and has
therefore approached this instance of trance utterances, one must
suppose, without any unreasonable amount of prepossession. His read
ing of the record has led him to a position hostile to Mrs. Piper, or
rather to Mrs. Piper’s controls, to an attitude somewhat critical of
those observers and recorders who have regarded the simplest and
most obvious hypothesis (viz., the one now adopted by Dr. I-Iodgson)
with some degree of favour, and decidedly impressed by the evidence
of those observers who have been able, on the strength of one or perhaps
two sittings, to regard the whole matter as a stupid fraud or a poor
imposture.
He cites again Professor Macalister’s “indelible blot.” “I let her
see a blot on my ﬁngers and she said I was a writer.” Has it occurred
to any reader what is the precise connotation of that “ I let her see ”?
The suggestion is that the blot was consciously obtruded in front of
Mrs. Piper’s eyeballs, and that the deduction followed. Is this an
exact statement of the sequence of events? Those who have had much
experience of Mrs. Piper’s sittings will doubt it. Even those with no
experience may conjecture that the clue aﬂbrded by the blot was
appreciated by the sitter afterwards.
1vLm., 1900.] Reﬂections on Mrs. Piper and Telepathy. 213
So much has been made by critics of this blot of Professor Macalis
ter’s, and of his single attempt at a sitting, when Mrs. Piper does not
appear to have gone into anything like a thorough trance, that I am
tempted to say further that a person with blotted ﬁngers is more likely
to be a yokel, or an experimenter with a fountain pen, than a practised
scribe. Few people are not “ writers” in the only sense that can be
deduced from blotted ﬁngers ; and in any other sense it is not apparent
to me that the epithet is specially applicable to Professor Macalister,
not so applicable as to Mr. Lang for instance. Had she guessed that
he was an anatomist there might have been something worth a
moment’s attention.
The whole sitting is worthless, the phenomenon did not occur, and
it is impossible even for a scientiﬁc man of the utmost ability to
construct a satisfactory theory from a single experience of the non
occurrence of a given phenomenon.
Professor Macalister’s one sitting was a bad one. I have stated in
my Report that bad sittings occur, and have given an example of one
that I had myself. (Vol. VI., p. 494.) It might be possible to call
on Miss Angus even, and have nothing but dim and unsatisfactory
crystal visions reported, but Mr. Lang would not expect the testimony
of that afternoon to outweigh the witness of his own record, nor even
to be seriously taken into consideration. Anybody can fail to get
crystal visions : I can myself.
“ G. P. frequently gives false information about what is occurring
at a distance.” So sometimes do the newspapers. But I presume that
they. both do their level best to get true information if they can, and
may not always be able infallibly to discriminate. Clairvyoance does
not appear to be a perfectly assured faculty; infallibility still less so.
“If Phinuit or G. P. were honourable spirits, they would say that
they do not know what they do not know.” Well, well, perhaps they
would. I try to do so myself. Perhaps I succeed. Mr. Lang must
feel very sure about this or he would not say it so conﬁdently.
Again he says Phinuit is “ vulgar beyond belief,” also “ tricky,
evasive, false, dishonest, impudently-mendacious, absurdly-ignorant,”
in fact, a “preposterous scoundrel ” (though this last is in quotation
marks).
I honestly do not feel sure what Phinuit is: he is certainly a
secondary personality of Mrs. Piper’s, I take it, though he may be
more; but whatever he is, I have a friendly feeling for him. If he
were a living person, I should have to say that he was a friend of mine,
and that I resented this ﬂuent “ derangement of epitaphs.” That he is
frequently “ evasive” I admit, that he is “ slim ” when in positions of
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1900.
diﬂiculty I do not deny, but “dishonest” and “impudently-mendacious”
I have not found him ; and in the matter of “ignorance ” he is far less
ignorant than I should have expected any one—even a secondary per
sonality—to be, concerning the relatives and private affairs of strangers;
while as to “vulgarity ” it is a matter of taste perhaps : there is very
likely some inherent vulgarity about the procedure of a Private Enquiry
Otﬁce, even when conducted to all appearances from another order of
consciousness and for scientiﬁc objects, but I could readily imagine a
more real and deeper-seated vulgarity than the comic coarseness of poor
old Phinuit, A person with no power of obtruding himself when
not wanted, who must be willingly sought, and can be dismissed or
abandoned at pleasure, seems to me to lack many of the essential
ingredients of vulgarity. But in addition to this I do not personally
ﬁnd him repellent. He might be described, as some Colonials have
been described, as one who “behind a slangy manner hides alarge and
warm heart.” The ethics of Phinuit, so far as I have observed them,
seem to me superior to those of some men whom I have known.
Judged by a person skilled in human nature, by Shakespeare, shall we
say, or by Dickens, not to go too high, by any one who rates human
kindness and friendly service above dignity of manner and high
education, I do not think that he would take a low position.
A secondary personality, says Mr. Lang, may be far worse than
the man himself: “ A man mad drunk may beat his mother to death ;,,
but that such ideas come anywhere within Mr. Lang’s mental horizon
when thinking of Phinuit, whether he be only a secondary personality
or whatever he he, shows how miserably erroneous is the impression
produced by a detailed record of unwitnessed proceedings. It is becom
ing apparent to me that adetailed record of every word is not in one
sense a faithful record. We are not accustomed ever to see every
inane and triﬂing remark recorded, not even in the worst novel ever
written; the bald, literal, mechanical record would be too nauseous.
A selection of the more interesting portions of any conversation is
invariably made. A telephone message, taken and faithfully tran
scribed by a clerk, does not contain the calling-up trwialities, nor the
intorjectional observations during intervals of cutting off, nor remarks
addressed to the operator, nor every misunderstood word said, repeated,
spelled, and ultimately guessed. The ﬁnal record may not be correct,
it may contain errors ; and if the telephone is partially out of order,
or if many cross-currents are in the line, there may be confusion ; but
the written message, as handed in, does not contain all this cross-talk ;
it aims at being a faithful record of what was intended, not amechani
cal reproduction of everything that occurred, with the rubbish
MAR.,1900.] Reﬂections on Mrs. Pipe'r and Telepathy. 215
emphasised. In much of the Piper record it is otherwise, the rubbish
is emphasised, and an effort is made to represent the whole occurrence ;
it is proper that it should be so, but it is well in reading it to remember
the fact. otherwise the record is liable to be misjudged.
If Mr. Lang has really read the whole record carefully through,
annotations and all, it is a big piece of work, for which we observers
owe him gratitude. Too many there are who will not take this
trouble. If the result of this study is to leave him under the illusion
manifest in his criticism, perfectly fair and candid as I am sure it
is intended to be, then that is for us very instructive. We have not
the slightest ground for complaint, we must be content to learn that
that is the impression which our research makes on the mind of a man
highly versed in cognate subjects and approaching it with no incurably
hostile predilection. He has some hostile predilection, I fear ; he has
said that he would not himself consent to sit with Mrs. Piper, I
believe, and he is sure his own deceased friends would avoid her; but I
hope that these are not among his more serious utterances.
As for his contention that one and the same class of explanation
must serve for savage mediums as serves for Mrs. Piper, I admit it
cordially. The admission of a modern case will not make the ancient
cases, of which he knows so much, the less interesting, rather more.
With some persons such an appeal would be hopeless and
ludicrous, but to Mr. Lang I would venture to appeal not to be so
ready to recognise evil speaking lying and slandering in the trance
utterances even of Mrs. Piper. I can assure him, if that is any good,
that he is mistaken, and that he could get a truer idea of the actual
facts in this case, facts as interesting in reality as those many other
facts of a similar nature in which he is so learnedly and effectively
interested, if he extended even to a record of trance utterances by
secondary personalities something of that, I will not say charity,
but readiness to allow for ditliculties and misconceptions, which he
is willing to extend to the embodied folk usually denominated “ real.”
And now a few words concerning the episodes related by my
soi-disant “Uncle Jerry.” Mr. Lang has gone through them and
detected inconsistencies in all but the “snake-skin.” They were
episodes of long ago (some of them 7O or 80 years ago now), of which
I, the sitter, knew nothing, related ostensibly by one deceased brother,
and attempted to be veriﬁed by subsequent inquiry from one or other
of two still living but spatially distant brothers. I will call the
authors of the two versions the deceased and the living respectively.
Their importance, if any, was that they eliminated anything that can
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1900.
properly and on experimental grounds be called telepathy; they do
not eliminate (I do not see how anything can eliminate) sheer clairvoy
ance; but telepathy, the only vera causa known tome, was eliminated.*
I took the trouble to make an index of all the episodes of this kind
in the report of the ﬁrst published series of sittings, not only of my
own sittings ; and in the preamble to that index I point out that by
no means all are equally conclusive, but that some kind of normal
explanation may be suggested for several, conceivably for all. (See
Vol. VI., p. 649.)
Mr. Lang does not dispute the contention that telepathy is elimi
nated, but he denies the concordance between the two accounts of
each veriﬁed episode, the account of the deceased (so to speak), and
that of the living. He says they are episodes such as occur in the
experience of almost every human boy, and evidently he is able to
regard them as shots.
Now, with deference, I submit (1) that the recently (or shortly to
be) published normal experiments of Professor Hyslop in New York
-show that coincidences less accurately related than these do serve as
trustworthy evidence for identiﬁcation in ordinary life;
(2) that the discrepancies are not so marked as might be ima gined,
though certainly the memories of the deceased and the living do no
tally. I have known such cases in life, where a little subsequent
comparison and conversation between the witnesses has resulted in a
better agreement; others in which each side adhered pertinaciously _
to their own version, when it was not easy for a bystander to judge
which was the more nearly right ;
(3) that the episodes have not, in fact, occurred in the experience
of every human boy, though there is truly about them nothing in the
least out of the common. Take the accounts and offer them to a
human boy, or to one who has been in that predicament, as an account
-of what passed in his boyhood, related by_a friend or brother of his
now abroad, and, as a rule, he will repudiate them.
But now about the discrepancies of the versions, what do they
amount to? Setting aside the episodes which have been unveriﬁable,
possibly through error, possibly through defective memory of survivor,
-and attending only to those which I have indexed, I will tabulate
the versions side by side. Version A is that of the ostensible
deceased, Version B is that of one or other living brother. The
deceased had given his name as Jerry : a fact however which, of course,
I knew well.
* Concerning the meaning of this statement, see Postscript at end of this paper.
.\'IAR.,1900.] Reﬂections on Mrs. Pipe'r and Telepathy. 217
“PRoCssomGs,” PART XVII. (Von. VI.), DECEMBER, 1890.
PAGE 649.
Version. A.
Page 503.—Yes, I pretty nigh got
drowned, I remember that. Tried
to swim the creek, and we fellows,
all of us, got into a little boat. We
got tipped over . . . ask him if he
remembers that about swimming the
creek.
Page 517. —He and Bob and a lot
of the fellows all together, in Smith’s
ﬁeld Bob knew Smith.
Page 515.—Bob’s got a long skin
—a skin like a snake’s skin—up
stairs, that Jerry got for him. It’s
one of the funniest things you ever
saw.
Page 550.—What a lot of mischief
he [Frank] was capable of doing
. . . There was a family near
named Rodney. He pounded one
of their boys named John. Frank
got the best of it, and the boy ran ;
how he ran ! His father threatened
Frank, but he escaped; he always
escaped.
Version B.
Page 526 (Abbreviuted).—About
the summer of 1828, or thereabouts,
a lot of us (including Jerry) left
Barking, some in a boat and others_
walking to Ilford to beat the river and
catch ﬁsh in nets arranged at Barking
for the purpose. We caught very few.
On arriving at Barking the elders
went home to get dry clothes, and
the young ones commenced the
usual rough play. Jerry and I were
larking together on the tailboard of
the water-mill : one pushed the other
and sent him down the slippery
platform, and then there was a
struggle together. which resulted in
both being sent into the mill-stream,
which was running fast owing to the
six gates being open. There was
nothing left but to swim with the
stream to a bank about three or
four hundred yards oﬂ‘.
[Common knowledge -'—'J."he river
at Barking is called the creek.]
Page 527.—I recollect there was
a ﬁeld at Barking called Smith’s
ﬁeld.
Page 557.—It was called Smith’s
ﬁeld because the occupier’s name
was Smith, I believe.
Page 516.—Yes, a crinkly th'in
skin, a curious thing ; I had it in a
box, I remember it well. Oh, as
distinct as possible. Haven’t seen it
for years, but it was in a box with
his name cut in it; the same box
with some of his papers.
Page 557—1 recollect very well my
ﬁght with a boy in the cow-ﬁeld.
It took place when I was ten years
old (about 1822), and I suppose a
bit of a boy-bully. We had no
quarrel, but merely fought to see
which was best man, and when my
opponent considered he had had
enough, instead of giving in in the
usual manner, he bolted like a lamp
lighter. . . . I don’t at all
recollect the name of the boy who
ran away. I recollect his father
saying if he caught hold of me he
would give me a good hiding.
218 Journal of Society for P87/chical Research. [Mxn., 1900.
Those are all the episodes among this particular set of communi
cations which I have claimed and indexed as against the telepathic
hypothesis.* There are several incidents recalled or imagined by one
side and not recalled by the other ; and the episodes recollected by both
I have here recorded in the most favourable manner.
Not very strong? VVel], no, perhaps not. Have they in my own
mind deﬁnitely decided me against what is ordinarily understood by
the telepathic hypothesis? No, I cannot say that they have. The
whole body of evidence distinctly has done as much as that, but hardly
these episodes taken by themselves; nor, so far as I can tell, has any
one of the other episodes indexed by me, considered by itself.
Crucial experiments are seldom really crucial, or at least seldom
produce their full eﬂ'ect on a mind not otherwise prepared for their
witness.
Belief is caused not by crucial incidents but by prevalent tendency
and integration of the whole experience ; and it is on this totality of ex
perience that I believe the Piper phenomenon to be no more explicable
on any rem causa that science is aware of (including telepathy) than
are Miss Angus’s visions. I do not suppose that any one explanation
will cover every class of these abnormal facts. So long as the
phenomena are diﬂ'erent the explanations may diﬂ'er too. But when
in past times similar phenomena are recorded, then I should say that
those may be properly covered by the same explanation, whatever that
may be.
In connection with my remark quoted approvingly by Dr. Hodgson
that a certain kind of widespread and unconscious telepathy,
“ telepathy at trois,” as Mr. Lang well calls it, had never been experi
mentally established, Mr. Lang virtually asks me whether his experi
ences in crystal vision with Miss Angus are not “experimental” in my
sense of the word.
Undoubtedly they are,—for I was not distinguishing between
experiment and observation ;—and very valuable and interesting
experiments. But what do they establish? not telepathy ; clairvoyance,
perhaps, whatever that may mean. I cannot explain the phenomenon
of Miss Angus, nor can I explain the phenomenon of Mrs. Piper, but
surely one does not discredit the other.
No, Mr. Lang would say, but they discredit the intervention of the
spirits of the dead,—that antique and obvious hypothesis now adopted
by Dr. Hodgson, and so made for the moment semi-respectable.
" See Postscript.
Man, 1900.] Reﬂections on Mrs. 1’iper and Telepathy. 219
In calling it the most simple and natural hypothesis, I do so
chieﬂy on historical grounds—which are manifest —but I do so also to
some extent on the grounds indicated by Mr. Schiller in his recent
paper: “ On some philosophic assumptions in the investigation of the
problem of a future life.” (Proceedings, Part XXXVI., p. 53 )
Mr. Lang prefers the hypothesis of a secondary personality; for
which in itself there is undoubtedly much to be said, though I do not
see that the lucidity of such a personality is as yet explained, any more
than I understand the explanation of the lucidity of Mr. Huxley’s
soldier-whose-skull-had-been-fractured-by-a-bullet. A plain man would
suppose the result of such an accident to be the reverse of lucidity.
There is further the hypothesis of Cosmic pictures, or communion
with the Absolute, or, as I might put it, a psychological modiﬁcation
of our usually conceived ideas of space and time.
For myself I incline to this latter hypothesis, if it can be called
one. Miss Angus sees in the crystal events in India. Mr. Lang says
they cannot be pictures, because the events are three weeks old at the
time. Pictures are sometimes three centuries old,—but, without press
ing that, why, if she transcends the ordinary bounds of space, should _
time present a hopeless obstacle?
Mr. Lang may not object to the hypothesis vaguely suggested here :
indeed, I do not see how a secondary or tertiary or any other
personality helps towards an explanation, unless something of this
power be granted hypothetically to it, but he objects to the agency of
spirits of the dead. He says “ that in his experiments there was no
room for the theory of spirits of the dead, for all concerned were
alive.” Alas, here again I do not know. I can only wonder how Mr.
Lang knows. Does Mr. Lang really agree with Mr. Podmore that
overstretched telepathy from the living is likely to be the true and real
explanation of these cases—of such a case as he cites in connection
with his friend Mr. Lesley for instance? If so, I cannot argue other
wise, but my instinct is against it. I would rather say that the clear
and valid and scientiﬁcally expressible explanation is still to seek.
Postscript.
Since writing the above I have seen Mrs. Sidgwick’s article in Pro
ceedings, Part XXXVI., on the “Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper ;”
where, accepting provisionally as a working hypothesis and for the
sake of argument, some intervention or agency of dead persons, that
is, persons with no organs known to anatomy or physiology, she
attempts to discriminate between two varieties of this hypothesis,—
the variety which assumes that these persons act telepathically on the
220 J0wr'na,t of Society for Psycluicrtl Res-ewrch. [MAB.,1900.
dream mind of Mrs. Piper, or the variety which assumes that they
enter and “possess” and utilise a part of her body for a time, in
somewhat the same way as she herself normally uses it.
In my letter above I have not contemplated this distinction. The
distinction I have drawn, between telepathy and something else, refers
solely to telepathy in Mr. Podmore’s sense ; a distinction between the
hypothesis of telepathy from some living, though it may be distant,
person, and any other hypothesis whatever of the ultra-normal kind.
It is in this sense, and in this sense only, that I have said that in
certain few cases “the hypothesis of telepathy was excluded.” I am
unable to regard telepathy from the dead as a vera causa known to
science ;—though to say that is by no means to abuse it.
In my own experience, some agency, some conscious intelligence, of
departed persons was undoubtedly and strongly suggested ; but in very
few cases indeed was there any semblance of what might be called
“possession.” Possession was simulated or occurred ostensibly with
Mr. E. (Vol VI., pp. 517, 552, etc.); it occurred ostensibly again with
Dr. Edwin Thompson (op. cit., p. 544) probably, though I am not
quite sure of that ; it was simulated once, for an instant only, by a
relation of my own ; but as a rule it was clear to me, or became clear
before the end of the sittings, that Phinuit was reporting—reporting
in the ﬁrst person and somewhat dramatically—the information which
he acquired ; and this without any intent to deceive.
I do not ﬁnd “possession” an easy idea to formulate to myself
scientiﬁcally. I presume that it implies a more extended power than
telepathy, because telepathy may be supposed to act primarily on the
mind, and secondarily on the brain, and so indirectly on other organs ;
whereas “possession ” may, I suppose, be deﬁned as a psychical action
direct on matter,—direct on the matter of the hand or the voice ; and
may be regarded therefore, as somewhat more of the nature of a
“physical phenomenon.”
I do not propose to say more on Mrs. Sidgwick’s paper now ; and I
have only said as Inuch as this in order to emphasise the fact that no
idea of the distinction she draws was in my mind when replying to Mr,
Andrew Lang; otherwise my form of expression (appearing after her
paper) might tend to mislead.
Furthermore, I wish to say that, though I have called the above
letter a partial reply, it is in no sense intended to be a complete reply ;
nor have I in the slightest degree touched upon any of those points
and criticisms (the most numerous in Mr. Lang’s critique) which
concern Dr. Hodgson, and on which in due time he will himself, no
doubt, have something to say.
No. CLXVIII.—VoL. IX. APRIL. 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 221
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 222
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 223
The Cure of Warts by suggestion. By M. H. Mason .. .. .. .. .. .. 225
Case . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 27
Mrs. Piper I-and 'I"elepa-t-hy. 'Ry A!I1.dT6W..'L3.Ilg.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 228
Further Discussion of a Case of Supposed " Spir1t-Photography." By D. B. McLachlan. . 232
The Edmund Gurney Library Fund .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 236
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
DoNNE, MIss A. G. M., 77, Chiswell-street, London, E.C.
FoRD, MIss EMILY S., Adel Grange, Leeds.
Fowke, Frank Rede, 24, Victoria Grove, Fulham-rd., London, S.W
GREEN, ALAN B., M.A., M.B., B.C., Downing College, Cambridge.
GREEN, MRs., Downing College, Cambridge.
HAMILToN, WILLIAM H., Glenburnie, Werter-road, Putney, S.W.
HAsLAM, WILLIAM J., New College, Harrogate.
MUIRHEAD, MRs., 40, Marlborough-mansions, Cannon-hill, Finchley
road, N.W.
WHIDBoRNE, MIss C. M., Chavanté, Torquay.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
AYER, MRs. H. H., c/o New Yor/c World, Manhattan, New York, N.Y.
BILL, CHAS. ALFRED, 101, West 78th-street, New York, N.Y.
BULLoCK, REv. M. A., Lincoln, Neb.
DEMMING, BENJ. W., Harrisburg, Pa.
DEvINE, ANDREW, 145, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
ELDRIDGE, JoHN R., M.D., 149, West Canton-street, Boston, Mass.
EvANs, MARK G., 410, Cooper-building, Denver, Colo.
FEIBEL, JULIUs C., Hillsboro, Ohio.
FIsHER, L. S., Sparta, Wis.
FosTER, MIss L. F., 187, West 82nd-street, New York, N.Y.
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1900.
HUGHEs, OLIvER. H., Hillsboro, Ohio.
HUTCHINsoN, HENRY E., 1,180, Dean-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
LIBBY, DR. H. F., 687, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
MILLER, JoHN W., Snohomish, Wash.
OAxs, L. W., Bradford, Pa.
PAvEY, HENRY A., Hillsboro, Ohio.
SALTER, ARTHUR, Box 43, Independence, Colo.
WELLINGToN, MIss SYBIL,C/o Dr.Hodgson, 5,Boylston-place,Boston,Mass.
WRAY, MIss ELEANoR, Walpole, Mass.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the rooms of the Society on March 2nd.
Professor H. Sidgwick occupied the chair. There were also present:
Dr. A. W. Barrett, the Hon. E. Feilding, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. H.
Arthur Smith, Mr. J. G. Smith, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
One new Member and eight new Associates were elected. The
election of nineteen new Associates of the American Branch was
recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
The Council recorded with regret the decease of Mr. T. G. Bylands,
who had been a Member of the Society almost from its commencement,
and also of Miss Jebb, an Associate of the Society.
Some presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donors.
The House and Finance Committee presented a report and an
estimate of income and expenditure for the current year. This was
discussed in connection with the best mode of bringing out the lengthy
report by Professor Hyslop of his sittings with Mrs. Piper, in regard
to which letters were read from Mr. Myers, and from Miss Johnson, as
Editor. A general scheme for the year was agreed to, some matters
of arrangement being deferred for ﬁnal decision.
The question of the desirability of an ampliﬁcation and combination
of the existing Indexes of the Proceedings, Journal, and Phantasms of
the Living, which had previously received some attention, was fully
discussed. It was thought that such an Index would be found
valuable by many Members of the Society, as well as by others,
especially in regard to the work of the Society in the future ; and it
was agreed that steps should be taken towards its preparation.
Some other matters having been disposed of, the Council agreed
that its next meeting should be at the Town Hall, Westminster, at
3 p.m., on Friday, April 6th.
APRIL, 1900.] General Jlleeting. 223
GENERAL MEETING.
The 104th General Meeting of the Society was held in the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, March 2nd, at 8.30 p.m., PR0FEssoR
SIDGWICK in the chair.
MIss M. H. MAsoN gave an account of two cases of the cure of
warts in children by suggestion. The boys who were her patients had
come under her notice in the course of her duties as Inspector of the
Boarding-out system under the Local Government Board. [These
cases will be found printed below.]
Miss Mason said that she would be glad of opportunities of trying
the same treatment further, and invited those present to bring her
subjects for experiment, for which she would, if possible, arrange
times at her rooms at 21, Queen’s Mansions, Victoria Street, London,
S.W. She also invited any of the audience who might have warts
to come to her for the purpose of having them charmed at the close
of the meeting. This invitation was accordingly accepted by a lady and
a gentleman present, and their warts were charmed by Miss Mason.
Some extracts from a portion of PRoFEssoR J. H. HYsLoP’s Report
of his sittings with Mrs. Piper were then read by MR. F. PoDMoRE.
This portion of the Report (the whole of which is equivalent to about
600 pp. of Proceedings) consisted of a general introduction and lengthy
summary of the statements made at all the sittings, with a complete
detailed record of everything that occurred at the ﬁrst four sittings.
The remainder of the Report reached England too late for it to be
possible to make any use of it for this meeting. The following is a
brief account of the extracts read :—
Professor Hyslop prefaced his paper by a note explaining that
he was in no way responsible for the wide publicity given to his
investigations in the American Press ; nor for the statement that he
proposed to afford a scientiﬁc demonstration of immortality. He then
deﬁned his own attitude in the matter. The question of fraud, he
thought, was deﬁnitely put out of court by the results of previous
investigations, and he did not propose to consider it as a serious
possibility until speciﬁc evidence of it was adduced, or the charge of
fraud was put in a speciﬁc form. As regarded other possible explana
tions, he regarded telepathy as quite inadequate, and held that the
theory of spirit communion was the only theory hitherto adduced which
would cover the facts. Mr. Hyslop then proceeded to describe minutely
the elaborate precautions taken to prevent Mrs. Piper in her normal
state from having any clue to his identity, and the general conditions
under which the experiments were conducted. Extracts were then
read from his critical summary of the records of the sittings. A large
224 Jo-urnal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL,1900.
part of the communications received through Mrs. Piper’s hand pur»
ported to proceed from the spirit of Mr. Hyslop’s father, and a detailed
account was gi'\'en of various conversations containing pertinent
information on the nature of his last illness, and the remedies employed,
or considered with a view to employment, or recommended by friends
for employment. References were also quoted to the deceased’s friends
or relations, his personal effects, his habits, occupation, religious views,
and characteristic phraseology. Other relations at times purported to
control Mrs. Piper’s hand, and an extract was read, the communication
purporting to proceed from the spirit of a uncle of Mr. Hyslop,
containing many references subsequently veriﬁed, to persons and
events unknown to the sitter.
THE CHAIRMAN observed that Dr. Hodgson attached great im
portance to the report of this series of sittings, as it was a complete
record of everything that transpired.
An animated discussion followed, which we do not report at length,
since the criticisms and replies to them could hardly be appreciated
without reference to the complete record, which, it is hoped, will be
published soon.
In answer to a question as to whether Mrs. Piper’s health was
affected by her trances, it was replied that no unfavourable results had
followed, and that her health had been decidedly better of late years
than it was formerly.
It was also asked whether she received payment for her sittings,
to which the reply was that she was paid for them, but it was only fair
to her to state that she could probably have earned much more if she
had not agreed to sit solely under Dr. Hodgson’s arrangements, with
sitters arranged for by him.
THE CHAIRMAN asked Mr. Podmore what impression had been
produced on his own mind by the part of Professor Hyslop’s report,
which he had read.
MR. PonMoRs replied that he thought the evidence in some respects.
not very strong. Thus, of the names given at the ﬁrst sitting, only 5
out of 17 were identiﬁed as correct; the principal control purported to
be Professor Hyslop’s father, and Professor Hyslop thought the phrase-.
ology used and the mental attitude in general specially characteristic
of his father ; but it appeared to him hardly deﬁnite or unusual
enough to be so regarded. Professor Hyslop had become convinced of'
the spiritistic theory, and explained by it incidents which did not go.
beyond the explanation of telepathy from the sitter or other living
persons ; and mistakes were explained away—perhaps rather too freely
_as due merely to the diﬂiculties of communication. On the whole,
APRIL, 1900.] The Cure of Warts by Suggesti0'n. 225
he did not think the evidence so strong as what had been previously
published in the case of Mrs. Piper.
MIss E. K. BATEs gave an account of sittings she had recently had
with Mrs. Piper, at which the information given could not, she thought,
have been acquired by thought-transference from the sitter; nor did
she think it open to the other objections Mr. Podmore had mentioned.
THE CURE OF WARTS BY SUGGESTION.
Br M. H. MAsoN.
The Journal for April, 1898, contained an account of a case which
I cured by charming in the autumn of 1897. Since then I have been
looking out for other cases for experiment ; but warts do not seem to
be common, for I have found scarcely any since that date. I am
afraid I may have seen one or two upon which I forgot to experiment
at the time, and I no longer remember whose, or where they were.
But I have charmed only two since 1897, and both were again com
pletely successful. They were as follows :
On October 2nd, 1899, I found, at Stanford Rivers, in Essex, a
boy named Thomas S., aged about ten, with a large wart about the
size of a threepenny bit on his right thumb. I was told that he had
had it six months, and that various methods had been tried for its
cure. He told me himself that it had been rubbed with broad-bean
shells and parsnip tops. I spoke to the schoolmaster about it, out of
the boy’s hearing, and told him that I had no doubt I could cure it
by suggestion, and I interested him in the matter. He promised to
help, and to watch the case, and let me know if it was cured. I then
called the boy back, and told him that I was going to charm his wart
away in a manner which I thought would be to his own taste. I
showed him a sugar mouse, and putting it in a box in one of the
school cupboards, told him that I should leave it there till it had eaten
up his wart in the dark, and that before that day three months he
would ﬁnd the wart gone, and then he was to ask the schoolmaster
for the mouse and eat it up in its turn.
On January 18th I received this letter from the schoolmaster :
Stanford Rivers, Romford, Jrmmu-y 16th, 1900.
DEAR MIss MAsoN, —I am very pleased to inform you that T. S.’s wart
has entirely disappeared.
I am simply astounded—it is very remarkable.—Yours faithfully,
H. NEWMARCII.
As I had told Tommy that the mouse was to eat up his wart
during the time stated, I wrote to ask Mr. Newmarch whether the
226 Jou/rnal of Society for Psychicai Resewrch. [APBIL,1900.
wart disappeared gradually or suddenly, and on what day, as far as
he could tell me. He answered as follows :—
Stanford Rivers, Romford, Jcmuary 22nd, 1900.
DEAR MIss MAsoN,—T. S.’s wart gradually disappeared, and ﬁnally so
about a week before Christmas Day. On that morning,r I overtook Tommy
going to church, when I asked him how the wart was getting on. He
showed me his hand, and there was no sign of the wart whatever. He
also gave me the information as already stated.
Tommy received the sugar mouse with a broad beam of satisfaction all
over his face.
I have much pleasure in sending you these particulars, as I am so
interested in the case.—Believe me, Yours faithfully, H NEWMARCH
The gradual disappearance of this wart may have been due to my
telling the boy that the mouse would eat it up in the dark during the
period mentioned.
Three days afterwards, on October 5th, I found another boy named
William G., attending another school a few miles off. He also had a
large wart, which was situated above the third ﬁnger of his right
hand. I told him in the presence of an old couple with whom he
lived, and who fully believed in wart~charming, that I would charm it
away for him before that day three months, and I asked the school
mistress to let me know the result. She wrote as follows :
Paslow Common Board School, November 13th, 1899.
DEAR MIss MAsoN, —I am very glad to tell you that your Charm had its
desired effect on Willie G. ; the wart has nearly disappeared. . . .—
Yours obediently, F DoDD
Then I wrote to ask her whether the wart had entirely disappeared,
and, if so, when and how. She answered :—
Paslow Common Board School, Jan/wary 20th, 1900.
DEAR MIss MAsoN,—I am only too pleased to answer a letter from you
at any time, and to give you any information you may require.
Very glad to tell you that Willie G. has improved, and that the wart has
quite disappeared; how long cannot quite say, but some time. . . .—
Yours obediently, F‘ DoDD.
In this case I must confess that I forgot to do anything by way of
charming, and the cure must have been effected merely by my assur<
ance of it,—that is, by suggestion pure and simple. It seems to me
that the power of cure by suggestion, or faith healing, lies not merely
in the faith of the subject but in that of the agent. ‘I need not say
that I have no faith whatever in the charm itself; but experience has
APRIL, 1900.] Case. ' 227
given me very strong faith or conﬁdence in my own power of inspiring
faith in others. So great, indeed, that I can undertake and promise
to effect such cures.
February 14th, 1900.
CASE.
L. 1119. Clairvoyance in a Dream.
The following case of apparent clairvoyance in a dream was kindly
obtained for us by Mrs. E. Thompson, of 87, South Hill Park, Hamp
stead, London, N.W., an Associate of the Society. The account was
written by Mrs. Thompson, from the description given her by the
percipient, Mrs. Hodgson, who afterwards corrected and signed it.
June 12th, 1899.
The following account of a dream seems worth recording. It was told
me by a lady on Sunday last (June 11th). whom I met at the house of a
mutual friend.
In September, 1897, Mrs. H., of Shepherd’s Bush, left her house during
the afternoon for a few hours unattended, and unfortunately whilst she was
away burglars entered and ransacked the place, taking all portable valuables.
One of the articles missing and supposed to have been stolen was a small
papier-maché box containing trinkets of more or less value. The box,
however, was much valued, having been in Mrs. H.’s possession for many
years, and [she] was naturally vexed at the loss.
About one week after the burglary, Mrs. H. dreamed she went into the
coal cellar and found hidden amongst the ﬁne coal the very box supposed to
have been taken by the thieves.
Mrs. H. spoke to her daughter (the next morning) of her dream, and she
laughed and scouted the idea of a box of trinkets in the coal cellar. There
fore they did not make a search, but let the whole matter of the dream slip
their memory for a time. She herself felt it was there.
In the following August, 1898, Mr. Hodgson went into the cellar to see
how much coal there happened to be, when, to Mrs. H.’s surprise, he came
to her with the box wrapped up in a newspaper, which was of the date of the
burglary, viz. : September 30th, 1897. He had found it amongst the ﬁne coal.
Mrs. H. kept this paper for some time, but has not it in her possession now.
Afﬁxed hereto are the signatures of Mrs. and Miss H.
(signed) 0. HonosoN.
E. HoDGsoN.
Mrs. Hodgson adds .—
This is' a perfectly true account of my dream and its strange fulﬁlment.
I am not a dreamer; it is very seldom I dream, so was greatly impressed
by this one' (Signed) O. HonesoN.
Miss Hodgson also adds :—
My mother’s dream impressed her very much, and I cannot describe my
feelings when the box was found.
228 Jou/mat of Society for Psychical Research. [Amun,1900.
MRS. PIPER AND TELEPATHY.
BY ANDREW LANG.
Replies to replies are weary things, but I must thank Mr. Lodge
for the courtesy of his remarks on my remarks on Dr. Hodgson’s
studies of Mrs. Piper. There cannot be any essential diversity of
opinion between Mr. Lodge and myself, as, apparently, neither of us
has any theory as to the nature of Mrs. Piper’s phenomena.
(1) I admit that Professor Macalister, with the blot on his ﬁnger,
had a bad “sitting ; ” but I would draw no inference from a number
of bad sittings, except that, if success depends, in any degree, on “ a
thorough trance,” Mrs. Piper should not give sittings when she is not
in a trance that is thorough. It does appear to me that, as a rule,
she fails most with the kind of people whose aﬂirmative evidence
would be most valuable. But for this (if this be so), there may be
many different reasons. Nothing would surprise me less than the
occurrence of “dim and unsatisfactory visions” on the part of any
crystal-gazer; if a certain percentage of them occurred, one might
begin to feel that chance-coincidence perhaps provided the clear and
satisfactory visions, which would be mere fancy pictures. Indeed,
I always keep this and other normal causes of success before my
mind. I do think that failures, in all cases, ought to be “seriously
taken into consideration.”
(2) False information from G. P. does not seem to me to be on the
same footing as false news in the papers. If the distinction is not
obvious, I shall not dwell on the matter.
(3) As to Phinuit, I do think he has all the usual evil notes of a
“secondary personality ;” but as Mr. Lodge entertains “a friendly
feeling” for a secondary personality whom I have never met, I refer
him to the opinion of Mrs. Sidgwick.
(4) My bias, my hostile bias, as to paid mediums, I have frankly
confessed. Most of us have a bias, and it is candid to state onc’s
own. Surely I must know something about the characters and tastes
of my own deceased friends. If they “communicate” through Mrs.
Piper, then either their tastes have altered, or the communicators are
not what they profess to be. I have a right to abstain from trying to
bring my friends acquainted (were it possible) with whatever it is
that, to my mind, pretends to be what it is not. I cannot be more
“serious” than I am on this topic.
(5) The affair of “Uncle Jerry ” must be studied in the original
records. In my opinion “ Version A.” (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VI.,
p. 503) is utterly and irreconcilably different from “Version B.” (ibid.,
Arms 1900.] Mrs. Piper and Telepathy. 229
p. 526). According to Version B. nobody was “tipped over” from a
boat, and nobody “pretty nigh got drowned,” as in Version A. Most
boys, alas, have killed cats, or been present at a cat-killing ; many
boys have been “tipped over” in boats; of all names of ﬁelds,
“Smith’s ﬁeld” is not the least common. The snake-skin I have
admitted as good ; and if the runaway boy was named Rodney, that
is good also. I don’t pretend to explain these facts, unless there is
such a thing as télépathie 11 trois.
(6) As to Miss Angus’s successes, or some of them, I do not think
that they prove this télépathie it trois : I only mean that, of other than
normal explanations, I incline to think that the most easily thinkable.
Why we should suppose that the agency of the dead may be concerned
in them, I cannot conceive. Of course I cannot know that the dead
were not concerned ; but I cannot imagine why we should even glance
at that animistic hypothesis in such cases. All the people who seemed
to be seen in the glass, and all the people present who were interested
in them were alive, unless, indeed, on one occasion, the picture of
Mariotte Ogilvy (about 1546) was really seen. A lady about her age,
and in the dress of her period, was viewed in the glass, but I was
present; Mariotte had been present to my mind, and, for all that I
know, Mariotte may have somehow exuded thence. Or the crystal
gazer may once have known but forgotten that unlucky heroine: or
the view of a lady of about 1546 may have been fortuitous.
(7) I do think, as Mr. Lodge puts the question, that “over
stretched telepathy from the living” is the most easily thinkable
non-normal explanation of these cases, but there may be an unguessed
at normal explanation, or, as Mr. Lodge says, there may be “a
psychological modiﬁcation of our usually conceived ideas of space and
time.” Perhaps, after all, that is the least diliicult hypothesis, and
probably the best attitude is the philosopher’s who said, hypotheses non
ﬁngo. By the way, Mr. Huxley’s tale of “the lucidity of the soldier
whose-skull-had-been-fractured-by-a-bullet” is really deserving of study
by the learned in these matters. As Mr. Huxley accepted the facts,
they must, I suppose, have been given on adequate evidence, which he
adduced. But the “lucidity” (which was limited) did not, apparently,
interest Mr. Huxley. He remarked on the resemblance to cases of
hypnotic patients, but seemed to regard all of them as highly
suspicious characters. The soldier he did not suspect. The soldier
did (he seems to have thought) what the hypnotic patients only
pretend to do, or may be suspected of pretending to do. The interest
ing coincidence between the facts in the soldier’s case, and the fraud
in the hypnotic cases, was not dwelt on by Mr. Huxley : who noticed
230 Journal of Society for Psychrlcal Research. [APiuL,1900.
it brieﬂy in passing. One question, after all, I may ask Mr. Lodge.
Does he believe that Phinuit is a deceased physician of French birth?
If he does not believe this, and if Phinuit positively asserts this, how
can Mr. Lodge deny that Phinuit mentitur impudentissime? It was, I
think, Professor Shaler who called Phinuit “a preposterous scoundrel.”
If Phinuit were a living person for whom Mr. Lodge confessed a
friendly feeling, of course I would sedulously avoid the mention of
Phinuit. But we are agreed that Phinuit is not a living person.
[Note--The case described by Huxley,* to which Mr. Lang refers,
is a striking instance of duplex or alternating personalities. It was
observed by Dr. E. Mesnet and published by him under the title,
“De l’Automatisme de la Mémoire, etc.,” in L’Um'on Médicale, July
21st and 23rd, 1874. A brief summary of it was given in Mr. Myers’
paper on “Automatic Writing” (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. IV., p.
234); but as this appeared thirteen years ago, our readers may be
glad to be reminded of the main features of the case. The soldier
—F.—after a gun-shot wound in the head at Sedan, became subject
during the next four years to periodical attacks of a kind of somnam
bulism, during which he was entirely insensible to pain, could hear,
taste and smell nothing, and could hardly see at all, except when the
sense of touch called his attention to objects, which he could then,
it appeared, see distinctly. His condition during these attacks is
compared by Huxley to that of a frog deprived of its cerebral
hemispheres, which retains all its ordinary powers of movement,
but will only use them when urged by external stimuli; and which,
though it appears to be blind, will—if it is made to move—avoid
obstacles, thus showing that it is really affected in some way by
visual sensations. Similarly, the soldier in his secondary condition
appeared to be brought into relation with the external world almost
exclusively through the sense of touch. Sitting at a table in one
of his abnormal states, he took up a pen, felt for paper and ink,
and began to write a letter to his general, recommending himself for
a medal on account of his good conduct and courage. To test how
far vision was concerned in this act, Dr. Mesnet repeatedly placed
a sheet of iron between the man’s eyes and his hand ; he continued to
write a few lines illegibly and then ceased, but without showing any
discontent. When the obstacle was removed, he began to write again
where he left off. The ink in his inkstand was then replaced by
* In an essay, “ On the Hypothesis that Animals are Automata, and its History”
—(Fortnightly Review, 1874), reprinted in Science and Culture, and other Essays ([881),
pp. 223-231.
APRIL, 1900.] Note. 231
water. He perceived the faintness of the letters traced, wiped his
pen again and again, but never looked at the ink-bottle._ His ﬁeld
of vision, it seemed, was awakened by touch alone, and was limited
to objects with which he was actually in contact.
On one occasion he was writing on a sheet of paper which lay on a
pile of about ten similar sheets. The top sheet was drawn away and his
pen continued to write in the same place on the second sheet. When
he had written about ten words on the second sheet, this also was
snatched away, and he continued his phrase at the corresponding point
on the third sheet. This process was repeated and on the ﬁfth sheet
there was nothing but his signature at the bottom. Nevertheless, he
read over and corrected his letter on this blank ﬁfth sheet, scattering
stops and corrections over the empty page, each of which corresponded
to mistakes made on the corresponding points of the pages which had
been snatched away from him.
It will be seen that there was nothing here which could properly
be called “ lucidity,” since no knowledge was shown of anything that
F. had not been normally aware of. He merely saw on the ﬁfth sheet
a hallucinatory “after-image” of the letter he had just written. It
was remarkable that this represented the real letter so accurately,
showing how exact was his memory of it. But the heightening of the
faculty of memory is one of the commonest characteristics of the
automatic condition.
An incident curiously similar to this is recorded by Professor Janet
in the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VIII., p. 483. He says :—“ One day
a young female patient had an attack of somnambulism, during which
she had written a letter which she had afterwards torn up, and the
contents of which she had forgotten. By causing her to gaze upon a
shining surface, [I] succeeded in making her read by hallucination the
whole of that letter.”
Huxley observes of F.’s case :—“Those who have had occasion to
become acquainted with the phenomena of somnambulism and of
mesmerism will be struck with the close parallel which they present to
the proceedings of F. in his abnormal state. But the great value of Dr.
Mesnet’s observations lies in the fact that the abnormal condition is
traceable to a deﬁnite injury to the brain, and that the circumstances
are such as to keep us clear of the cloud of voluntary and involuntary
ﬁctions in which the truth is too often smothered in such cases.”
It should be remembered that this remark was made in 1874, at a
time when the modern science of Hypnotism was practically in its
infancy, and when a scientiﬁc man, even of Huxley’s eminence, might
be excused for speaking of it with scanty respect.—ED.]
232 Journal of Society for Psychicat Research. [APRIL,1900.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF A CASE OF SUPPOSED
“ SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHY.”
(Continued from the February “Journal,” 10. 194.)
. BY D. B. MCLACHLAN.
I am permitted to reply to the remarks evoked by the view I
ventured to express with reference to this photograph.
The question is simply whether a certain photograph can be repro
duccd in its essential parts by ordinary means. If those who assert
that it can will take the trouble to do it, the matter is settled.
This summary and conclusive treatment does not recommend itself
to -the scientiﬁc critics. They are fertile in theories, but slack in
testing their speculations. Mr. T. E. Espin has great faith in some
“ visual” experiments which consist in turning the photograph upside
down for the better understanding of it. His explanation is totally
different from that of Professor Barrett, who at least made one
photographic experiment.
In default of actual trial we might reasonably expect that the
hypothetical experiments should be worked out on paper to enable us
to judge of the supposed effects, but this also is denied us. Professor
Barrett and Miss Johnson conﬁne themselves to generalities that may
seem plausible to one unacquainted with practical photography, but
which are found to be impossible of realisation when reduced to terms
of space and time. If the following remarks appear long and tedious
the reason is that I have been obliged to work out the physical
theories myself to show their weakness.
1. Professor Barrett (p. 189) claims to have “carefully weighed all
the evidence,” but admits that his experiment was directed to elucidate
one feature of it only-—-the absence of both legs and an arm of the
Ghost. The experiment is manifestly inadequate to explain the whole
Ghost. Stationary and well-lighted parts of the body are absent as
well as the mobile parts. Especially do we want to know why the
figure has no vestige of an ear, though the whole side of the head is
turned to the spectator and is well lighted ; and why there is no mouth,
nose or ﬁngers worth mentioning. These details are an essential part
of the evidence.
Let us consider how Professor Barrett deals with the single point
which he undertakes to explain. Having conceived that the frag
mentariness of the ﬁgure is due to movements of human limbs, he
chose for his photograph such a length of exposure as accorded with
this conception. He says that the ﬁgure could be taken in 20 to 30
seconds, so we may infer that the whole exposure lasted a minute
Apmr, 1900.] Discussion of Supposed “Spirit-Photography." 233
or less. But the whole exposure of the D. photograph lasted an hour.
If Professor Barrett was aware of this, will he kindly tell us why he
offers a photograph of a minute’s duration to explain another that
occupied sixty minutes? Perhaps his photograph is made to scale
and is meant to be interpreted proportionally. If so, then since the
ﬁgure in the experimental photograph occupied half or two-thirds of
the total exposure, we conclude that the D. ﬁgure occupied half or two
thirds of an hour in the taking. But this is inconsistent with the
original idea that the limbs of the man were kept out of the photo
graph by being in motion all the time. The most agile of footmen
could not toss his arm and legs about incessantly—not to speak of
wagging his ear—for 30 or 40.minutes. I am afraid this point of the
case is not yet explained.
Ifancy also that Professor Barrett is alone in believing that the
D. ﬁgure is that of a footman, and a young one too. Who ever saw
a footman of any age with a cranium so lofty and reverend, so denuded
of hair?
2. It has not been shown that the transparent chair could have
been moved to its place during the exposure. It has doublings like
those of other objects and equally well-deﬁned, which proves that it
was on the spot during the whole of the short exposure. It was also
there during the whole of the long exposure, as Dr. Kingston points
out. But the short and long exposures together account for the
whole hour. There is no possible third period during which the room
was being photographed without the chair.
I cannot agree with Miss Johnson that the seat of the chair con
ceals a dark background. The shadow to which she refers is partial
and thin. The front and side of the chair are dense black, that is,
they made no impression at all on the silver of the plate, and the carpet
would certainly have occupied that space if it had had a chance.
Those who practise photography even as an amusement quickly
learn to notice the disposition of a scene in order to judge of the
pictorial eﬂ'ect. In focussing also one has to observe the picture very
closely. For these reasons it is incredible that Miss Corbet should
not have detected a disturbance in the order of the furniture when
she returned to the room. Besides, the chair is in its customary place.
It is evidently the one used by those who write at the round table.
There are writing materials on the side next to it. The last person
who used the chair turned it round a little in leaving the table.
With regard to this chair we have to choose between abnormal
transparency and abnormal opacity. Why, asks Miss Johnson, should
we ascribe the transparency to spiritual agency and not the opacity ?.
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL,1900.
That is hardly the issue. I have nowhere ascribed the transparency
to the deliberate action of spirits ; I have merely pointed out that a
similar transparency occurs in photographs accepted in certain
quarters as spiritual. The association may be a mere accident—and
then again it mayn’t, as Miss Kingsley’s West African skipper used to
say. It is just these little anomalies that set us on the track of
higher knowledge. They should be welcomed and studied, not denied
or ignored. Anyhow, in the Riintgen photography we have precedents
for a transparency that a few years ago would have been considered
abnormal and impossible, while we have no experience as yet of
abnormal opaqueness such as appears in the chair if it were moved
into place. The transparency is therefore the easier to accept of the
two alternatives.
3. The discovery that the room has three doors does not beneﬁt
the physical theory. It facilitates the entrance of the man into the
room, but destroys one of the reasons for his existence—the necessity
of accounting for the camera-displacement. We cannot suppose he
entered at one door and then walked up to, and disturbed, a camera
standing in another doorway and a little back. It is impossible that
he made the tour of the room outside and touched the camera behind
after being in the room, for the Ghost does not show doublings
due to the displacement of the camera. If he had been photographed
before the camera was moved his image would be doubled.
4. Miss Johnson supposes (pp. 180, 183) that the chair may have
been moved into position soon after the exposure began, and she is
pretty sure (p. 181) that the exposure which followed the camera
movement was the short one. The short exposure came last. But
the chair was in place during the whole of the long exposure (Dr.
Kingston). What then was the man doing between the time when
he moved the chair and the time when he moved the camera—an
interval of about an hour?
Miss Johnson provides an avenue of escape (p. 183): “perhaps”
the same person moved both chair and camera—perhaps only. But on
the other hand she is sure it was not Miss Corbet who moved the
camera (p. 181). But if not Miss Corbet, it was the man—the same
man who moved the chair about an hour before. We cannot possibly
admit a second hypothetical person into this suliiciently complicated
business. Therefore I repeat : What was the man doing in the room
all that time?
Miss Johnson has still a third line of entrenchment. Perhaps after
all (p. 180) the chair was there from the beginning and was moved
away before the end of the exposure, leaving time for the images to be
APRIL, 1900.] Discussion of Supposed “Spirit-Photography.” 235
formed that now show through it. The order of events would be:
tilting camera—moving chair away—photographing man—closure.
To this I object that it is not the proceeding of a man who is
acting in a ﬁt of abstraction. It is juggling or insanity. In the
second place, there is no time for all the events. VVe cannot allow
more than ten seconds for the short exposure, since the only things
that impressed the plate are ﬂaring glass and polished surfaces that
reﬂected straight into the lens. Ten seconds are, I judge, ample time
for that with an “ordinary ” plate closely stopped down. But from
the time of tilting the camera to the time of moving the chair away
we must allow the whole ten seconds, since the doublings of the chair
are of the same nature and strength as those of the other parts of the
room. There remains no time for photographing the images that show
through the chair and which (ex were formed after the chair was
moved away; and no time for photographing the man, which must
have followed the moving of the chair, but may have been concurrent
with the impression of the transparent images.
Let us throw back the camera-movement to any desired distance
and we meet with similar diﬂiculties. Say it took place ten minutes
before the closure, and divide the time equally between the secondary
images of the chair and the transparent images that followed its
removal. This also will not answer, since it gives twice as long for the
secondary images of the room as for those of the chair, and if the
latter occupied ﬁve minutes, the transparent images (which are much
stronger) occupied twenty minutes or more. If we give one minute
to the chair doublings and nine to the transparent images, we have
the secondary images of the room ten times as long as those of the
chair, which is absurd.
By placing the events at the beginning of the exposure we at least
have time for the man to be photographed and to get away after the
long exposure began. But all the rest is impossible. The camera must
have been tilted ten seconds after the lens was uncapped. Prior to
that the chair was moved out and formed 'its secondary image. Still
earlier there was a longer period with no chair in view when the images
were formed that show through the chair. Thus we get back to a
point coinciding with, or earlier, if such a thing were possible, than the
uncapping of the lens. A truly marvellous compression of incident I
It is thus irrelevant to speak of the hour’s exposure and the
absence of Miss Corbet and her friends from the house as if unlimited
time was thereby afforded for the man’s operations. On any arrange
ment of the facts he must have been in the room simultaneously with
Miss Corbet.
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [AP1im,1900.
5. I have succeeded in identifying D. Hall and ﬁnd it to be one
of the great English country mansions. It is surrounded by its own
grounds and its privacy is no doubt guarded in the usual way. We
know of three in-door men-servants and there would probably be
twice that number of women-servants, or more. Outside there would
be gardeners, stablemen and lodge-keepers. Add to these the members
of the family and we have a household of ﬁfteen to twenty persons.
I mention these details in view of the suggestion thrown out that a
visitor may have strayed into the house in a ﬁt of absent-minded
ness, without announcing himself by bell or knocker and without
being seen by any one. We can as easily imagine him wandering into
and out of Buckingham Palace without being challenged. The absent
minded visitor is as difﬁcult to accept as the apostolic footman.
There is a fact mentioned in the history of D. Hall that is not
without interest to our inquiry. The house occupies the site of what
for centuries was an abbey. The library where the Ghost appeared
was part of the abbey refectory and is said to be the only portion of
the old building left. It is thus a likely place for spiritual manifesta
tions to occur.
Professor Barrett has “ not the least doubt that a few trials would
enable any one to reproduce a ﬁgure the facsimile of that in the arm
chair in Miss Corbet’s photograph.” In the interests of psychical
research it is to be hoped that Professor Barrett will make these few
trials. The D. photograph has so many points in common with what
are called spirit-photographs that a natural explanation of this one
will account for most of the others. But in any photographic
reproduction we must have the unexplained accessories as well. They
are perhaps not so important as the main ﬁgure, but unless the whole
is done in such a manner as to include them as a by—product we have
no guarantee that the process is the same as that of the D. photograph.
We cannot be satisﬁed with a mere colourable imitation. Should it
be found impossible to reproduce the photograph satisfactorily, that
result also will be instructive in another way.
Wimbledon, February 13th, 1900.
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY FUND.
Account for 1899.
RECEIvED. PAID.
£ s. d. £ s. (1.
Balance from 1898 1 7 11 For Books... 5 2 5
Interest on Consols 1 10 0 Balance carried forward 7 12 0
Interest on Mid. Uruguay
Railway... 3 17 4
Interest on Buenos Aires
Water and Drainage 5 19 2
12 14 5 12 14 5
Audited and found corTect, and securities produced February 8th, 1900.
H. ARTHUR SMITH.
No. CLXIX.—VoL. IX. MAY, 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOGIETY FOR PSYGHICAL RESEARCH
CoNTENTS. PAGE
NewAssociates .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 237
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 238
A Cure of Paralysis by Hypnotism .. . . .. .. .. .. . . 239
Cases .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ., .._ .. .. .. .. 241
A Supposed Case of “ Spirit-Pliotography." By Professor W. F. Barrett . . .. .. 251
NE“T ASSOCIATES.
Bo'1"r, MRs., Somersal, Derby.
JoHssorr, Mes. AMY C., 141, Walton-street, Oxford.
SCHUPP, DR. FALK, 22, Sonnenstrasse, Munich.
SINGLEToN, JoHN R., 34, De Vere Gardens, London, W.
YoUNG, JAMEs F., Bryntesog Villa, New-road, Llanelly, South Wales.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
.ADAMs, MRs. ALBERT J., Netherland Hotel, 59th-street and 5th-avenue,
New York, N.Y.
BARTLETT, C. J., Marlin, Texas.
Coon, REv. Crms. H., PH.D., 1,906, Pearl-street, Denver, Colo.
CRAIGE, WM. C., 409, Chestnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
EAGER, GEoRGE R., Auburndale, Mass.
GEHRING, DR. J. G., Bethel, Maine.
HENRY, MRs. THos. S., 1,117, Broad-street, Newark, NJ.
KoHNsTA\IM, EMIL V., Hotel Endicott, Columbus-avenue and Slst-street,
New York, N.Y.
MICHAEL, MRs. HELEN A., 44, Mount Vernon—street, Boston, Mass.
MILLER, MRs. G. S., Peterboro, Madison Co., N.Y. -
Nms, F. A., Muskegon, Mich.
PYLEs, WM. F., c/o C. F. Hammett, Caixa Z, Sm Paulo, Brazil.
REYNoLDs, M1ss HELEN, 341, Mill-street, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
STEvENsoN, W. C., Hillsboro, Ohio.
'UTLEY, MRs. CHAs. P., Hagerstown, Md.
VERMILYE, DANIEL B., 37, Wa\'erley-place, Orange, NJ.
VVILLARI), MIss SUsANNA, 2, Berkeléy-place, Cambridge, Mass.
238 Journal of Society for Psych/ical Resewrch. [Mu,1900.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the rooms of the Society on April 6th.
Professor H. Sidgwick occupied the chair. There were also present:
Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr.
J. G. Smith, Sir A. K. Stephenson, Dr. C. L. Tuckey, and Dr. A.
Wallace.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Five new Associates were elected. The election of seventeen new
Associates of the American Branch was recorded. Names and
addresses are given above. _
The Council recorded with regret the decease of the Hon. Hugh O.
Northcote, an Associate of the Society. I I '
Some presents to the Library were on the table, for which a vote
of thanks was passed to the donors.
It was resolved that, in view of the proposed voluntary liquidation
of the Agra Bank, Limited, the Treasurer be requested to transfer the
Society’s bank account to the Temple Bar Branch of the London and
Westminster Bank, Limited.
Some other matters having been attended to, the Council agreed
that its next meeting should be at the Rooms of the Society, on
Friday, May l8th, at 4.30 p.m.
Since the date of the Council meeting, General Meetings—in
addition to that already ﬁxed for Friday, May 18th, at 8.30 p.m.—
have been arranged as follows :—Friday, June 22nd, at 4 p.m.. ; and
Monday, July 16th, at 8.30 p.m.
A CURE OF PARALYSIS BY HYPNOTISM.
Professor A. Alexander, of Rio de Janeiro, sends us the following
account of a hypnotic cure recently effected by a friend of his, Dr.
Alfredo Barcellos, who resides at Botafogo, Rio de Janeiro, where he
has a large practice. An article in the Journals for June and July,
1897 (Vol. VIII., p. 88 and p. 99) by Professor Alexander describes
some supernormal phenomena observed during hypnotic treatment by
Dr. Barcellos. Dr. Barcellos has used hypnotism in his medical practice
since 1888, when he ﬁrst experienced the beneﬁt of it in his own
person. While he attributes the phenomena of hypnotism generally
to suggestion, it is interesting to ﬁnd that both his own experience
and his observation of his patients have led him independently
MAY, 1900.] The Cure of Paralysis by Hypnotism. 239
to the views maintained by Dr. Bramwell, that a hypnotised
person retains his powers of discrimination and choice, and that
suggestions will not take effect if they are really opposed to the
subject’s will. In the article above referred to, several instances are
given of impressions produced at a distance by him on his patients (in
which cases, however, something must be allowed for the possible effect
of expectancy) and also instances of telepathic clairvoyance and
premonitions experienced by them. An earlier communication of Pro
fessor Alexander’s, printed in the Journal for July, 1893 (Vol. VI.,
p. 112) gives a case of thought-transference obtained through table
tilting, in which Dr. Barcellos was one of the principal experimenters
and witnesses.
Professor Alexander states, however, that Dr. Barcellos’ object
has always been the cure of disease, rather than experimentation or
the observation of supernormal phenomena, and the case now to be
given is simply an instance of this. The account was contained in a
letter written by Professor Alexander to Mr. Myers, dated January
21st, 1899, and endorsed by Dr. Barcellos, who has himself since
published an account of the same case in a Brazilian journal called
the Revisla da Socieolacle do rlledicina e Cirurgia.
Barcellos has lately obtained a splendid hypnotic triumph, which is
certainly worthy of mention. He has not yet sent his own account of it to
the Rio Medical Society, so that I must copy my note of the occurrence of
14th September, 1898.
Barcellos had long promised Sister Euphrasia, the directress of the
Orphan Asylum at Botafogo, that he would call at the Misericordia
Hospital in town and visit a sick girl who belonged to her establishment.
Eulina,* for that was, I believe, her name, had suffered for two years from
general paralysis, which, having come on gradually, was attributed by the
doctors in attendance to some affection of the spine. The ordinary means of
treatment had failed (strychnine, iodides, massage, electricity, etc.) On the
6th September, 1898, as Barcellos was riding into town in the street car, the
idea of the girl ﬂashed into his mind in such a manner that, in view of
subseqhent events, he was disposed to regard it as a telepathic impact.
Although the hour was an unusually late one (4 p.m.) for a visit to the
hospital, he went and was conducted by a sister of charity to the ward where
the patient lay. “ Si vous la guérissez,” said the sister, “ nous croirons au
miracle.” Eulina was not personally known to him, but a ﬂash of pleased
surprise passed over her face as the doctor entered the door, and he himself
recognised the patient he had come to see before the sister had time to point
her out. Seating himself on the side of the bed, he at once sought to bring
her under hypnotic inﬂuence. Soon her eyelids began to tremble and she
fell easily into the hypnotic slumber. The doctor then suggested that on
* This is the right name. I have shown this letter to Barcellos.—A.A.
240 Jo-wrnal of Society for Psyclrical Reseun-ch. [MAY, 1900.
the 8th of that month (Nativity of Our Lady) the girl should rise and walk.
This suggestion she received with the greatest readiness, so that on retiring
Barcellos expressed himself hopeful of her recovery. Sister Euphrasia
afterwards informed him to his surprise that Eulina had herself aﬂirmed that
she would rise from her bed on that very date. The next day Barcellos
again threw the patient into the hypnotic sleep, and with the emphasis of
his own sanguine expectation repeated the same suggestions. He made a
mistake in not going early to the hospital on the morning of the 8th. The
patient asked for her clothes; she wished to rise and go to mass in the
chapel; but her unaided efforts were unequal to the task of standing, or
even of sitting, in an upright posture. She fell to the ground, and was
obliged to renounce the attempt. It was only about two p.m. that Barcellos
arrived, and was informed of what had occurred. He at once hypnotised
Eulina, insisted on her carrying out the suggestion, and ordered her to
sit up in the bed. She obeyed with difﬁculty, Barcellos then noticing that
even the muscles of the trunk were unable adequately to perform their
oﬂice. The sister present was requested to draw the girl’s legs out of bed,
and the doctor ordered the latter to stand up. Again she fell to the ﬂoor,
and it was only when supported on either side by the sister and Dr.
Barcellos that she was at last able to maintain an erect posture. Then she
was encouraged to walk, the doctor tapping the leg which had to be lifted,
and directing her attention to it by words. After this preliminary exercise
and an intervening rest, it was found that she could walk while grasping the
doctor’s hand. Her evident desire was to direct her steps towards an
image of the Virgin. Barcellos perceived this, and led her thither,
allowing her to go quite alone when she was near the object of her
pilgrimagc.* She stopped erect before the image, and her lips moved in
prayer. At this moment Barcellos opened her eyes, and being, perhaps,
thus called back to a clearer consciousness of her surroundings and of the
wonder of her cure, a look of ecstacy illuminated her countenance. The
doctor left after suggesting that she should rise from her bed every hour and
sip a glass of water left purposely on a table placed at some distance away.
Or this suggestion may have been given on one of the succeeding days. I am
not sure on this point.i' It is a fact, however, that the girl has rapidly
recovered the free use of her limbs, and is now radically cured.
In addressing the medical students, who ﬂocked into the ward on the 9th
of September to verify the cure and witness the repetition of the suggestive
treatment above described, Barcellos urged the importance of hypnosis as a
“ therapeutic agent,” which ought not to be abandoned to the quacks and
popular healers. He said truly that it was a-shame to medical science that
the patient should have been left bedridden for two long years, while the
means of cure lay so close at hand. His remarks were timely, and con
tained a rebuke to certain professors of the RioSchool of Medicine who
‘ She was led to the image by Barcellos. It was after her prayer and in returning
to the bed that she walked alone.-—A. A.
1' It was given two days after the ﬁrst visit.—A. A.
MAY, 1900.] Cases. 241
teach that the hypnotic state is a morbid one, which no practitioner is justiﬁed
in producing. But Dr. Barcellos with his strong convictions produces
effects which more hesitating operators might fail to obtain. I also hold
that his warm and charitable instincts and his sympathy with the religious
nature of such patients as Eulina are forces which attract the 'entire
conﬁdence of the sujet, and start the most powerful kind of auto
suggestion.
ALFRED ALEXANDER.
CASES.
G. 265. Apparition.
The following is a case of a recognised apparition of a deceased
person reported to have seen independently at about the same time by
two of her relatives. The account of one of the percipients was sent
to us in 1891 by Mrs. Briggs, of Rawdon Hall, near Leeds, (formerly
an Associate of the Society) in connection with the Census of Halluci
nations, for which Mrs. Briggs was collecting answers.
This gentleman, whom we will call Mr. F., as he desires us not to
publish his name, wrote as follows :
October 10th, 1891.
. . . My mother-in-law, Mrs. P., died in 1864. Mr. P., who died
in 1882, lived at , Essex, and for some years before he died spent
Christmas regularly with his daughter, my wife, at —, where we now
reside.
I neither drink nor smoke; nevertheless, I always go to bed late and last.
At the top of the ﬁrst ﬂight of stairs a small side staircase leads to the room
which Mr. P. always occupied when staying with us, and which he occupied
on the night in question.
In the Christmas week of 188i, as I approached the top of this ﬁrst
ﬂight of stairs to go to bed, I saw Mrs. P. walking up the side staircase. I
stopped at the top of the ﬁrst ﬂight of stairs to let the candle burn steadier,
and when Mrs. P. reached the last step of the side staircase she vanished at
the door. There was no mistaking her ﬁgure and left side face as she
walked in advance of me, and so natural was it that for a second I expected
to hear her turn the door-handle. I had no thought of alarm and as the
remembrance that she had died years ago came upon me, I mused as I
reﬂected that Mr. P. was asleep within the room. Mr. P. died in the
following July.
(Signed in full) -— -—
Mrs. Briggs was not then aware that the apparition had been seen
by any one else ; but some years later, she happened to mention Mr.
F.’s experience to one of his daughters (whom we will call Mrs. D.),
an old friend of one of her own daughters. Mrs. D. expressed great
surprise at hearing it and told Mrs. Briggs that she herself had had
242 Journal of Society for Peychical Research. [MAY, 1900.
an exactly similar experience, which she had never mentioned to any
of her family. Mrs. Briggs communicated this information to us in a
letter dated November 2nd, 1898, saying :—
When I mentioned [her fa-thcr’s experience to Mrs. D.] a day or
two ago, she was quite surprised and would scarcely believe me. She then
told me she had seen the same ﬁgure, under the same circumstances, but
nearly a year previously. She never told any one in the family—in fact,
did not mention it at all, being afraid it would make her sisters nervous.
If you have . . . papers sent in at that time and could ﬁnd those
contributed by myself . . . I would feel greatly obliged to be allowed
to forward them, to satisfy my friend that her father actually ﬁlled up a
paper with an account of the same apparition she herself saw, and never
mentioned, about a year previously
In answer to this letter, Mr. F.’s original narrative was sent to
Mrs. Briggs, with the request that she would ask Mrs. D. to write her
account before looking at her father’s. Mrs. D. then wrote :—
November 9th, 1898.
Mrs. Briggs sent on to me the original letter of my father which I now
return, and I wish to thank you for sending it. Your note was also sent to
me to read, so I of course wrote my account of what I had seen before I
opened the letter written by my father. I was very surprised when I opened
his letter to see it was practically the same that I had seen, even to time and
place, but he does not mention Christmas eve, which I am sure of, as I had
been up much later than usual arranging presents and decorations for
Christmas. Until I opened his letter, or rather, heard from Mrs. Briggs
that he had seen the apparition of my grandmother (and she thought it was
at the deathbed of grandfather he saw it), I had no idea my father had ever
seen any spirit and I had never mentioned what I had seen to any of my
sisters, brothers, or parents.
Mrs. D. enclosed the following account of her experience :—
Nocember 9th, 1898.
My grandfather, Mr. P., during the last years of his life, used to spend
Christmas Day and a day or two following and preceding it, at my father’s
house, I distinctly remember one Christmas Eve—the last he spent
with us-—wa1king up to bed, and, as I was doing so, I noticed how late it
was by the clock striking twelve. As I got to the ﬁrst small landing (where
the gas was burning brightly) I chanced to look to the left where a small
staircase of about six stairs led to the spare room (only) occupied by my
grandfather, who had retired to rest some hours previously. The stairs I
was going by were to the right of the tiny landing, but while looking
towards my grandfather’s room I distinctly saw an old lady, of rather short
stature, dressed in black silk, with a something white round her neck,
walking slowly up the stairs. She seemed to be holding her dress up
slightly, and slightly bent forward. She was so real that I was not shocked,
but noticed a great and striking resemblance to the photograph of an old
MAY, 1900.] Cases. 243
lady in our album, whom I recalled as being that of my grandmother—Mr.
P.’s wife —who had died when I was a baby. I was astonished to see her
suddenly disappear as she got to the top step, and without opening the door.
I think I had seen her walk up about three steps altogether. Though I
slept alone I did not feel frightened, but wondered over it very much, and
of all my past life at that time I always recall this fact vividly and with awe,
and it seems to stand out from amongst all other events at that time which
I do not often or clearly recall now.
I never mentioned this to any of my sisters, brothers or parents,—nor,
till I met Mrs. Briggs on the 31st of last month, had I heard that one of
the family had seen anything of the sort.
Further enquiries made of Mr. F., however, disclosed an apparent
discrepancy between his recollections of the circumstances and Mrs.
D.’s, as he stated that he had told his family at the time of his seeing
the apparition and it was, he believed, owing to dne of his daughters
relating to Mrs. Briggs what she had heard from him that Mrs. Briggs
wrote to him and obtained his account. Now, if his family really
knew of it at the time, it would seem probable that Mrs. D., among
the rest, had heard of it. Her own statement shows that, if she had
ever heard of it, she has completely forgotten it since. But in that
case, her experience would not at the time have been independent of
her father’s, and would consequently be of much less evidential value.
It seems even not impossible that she might have heard of his experi
ence and, after the lapse of many years, unconsciously transferred it to
herself,—that is, come to believe that she had been the percipient,
instead of him. We have met with clear evidence of such a process
taking place in at least one case,—that of an apparition reported to
have been seen collectively by the narrator and her maid, which—on
the evidence of the former’s diary—turned out to have been seen by
the maid only. In order to test whether a similar mistake could have
been made in this case, some further enquiries were made both of Mr.
F. and of Mrs. Briggs, who has spared no trouble to furnish us with
all the information and evidence attainable. This is contained in the
following letters, from which we must leave our readers to form their
own conclusions.
From Mr. F.
Jam:-ary 12th, 1899.
I don’t think I have ever seen Mrs. Briggs: then how did she hear of
my experience and write to me for details? Either through her daughter,
who visited us, or through some member of my own family; at least, I
suppose these two are the only sources.
I do not remember having heard of my daughter’s similar experience to
mine in regard to the apparition of Mrs. P., my mother-in-law, until you
mentioned it in your ﬁrst letter. But in all ordinary matters of memory,
244 Journal of Society for .Psychical Research. [MAY,1900.
- _ "__" *Ar'.""I-g—_ -ma‘“=_—-_-_._ . __
youth should always be credited with greater accuracy than old age;
consequently, between my daughter and me you should advisedly give my
daughter’s statement the greater credence.
From Mrs. Briggs.
January 13th, 1899.
At this length of time I cannot undertake to say through which member
of the F. family I heard of Mr. F.’s seeing the apparition. But this I am
certain of, that Mrs. D.’s expressions of surprise were genuine. She may,
of course, have entirely forgotten that her father had mentioned it to the
family. She has had a great deal of sorrow and bad health since her
marriage, and her temperament is nervous and sensitive
It is very diﬂicult—is it not ?.-—to establish all points of evidence in such
cases. I have almost come to the conclusion that when people see those
things they are, unconsciously to themselves, in some curious mental con
dition which renders it diﬂicult for them to give a clear account of their
experience. It is one thing to talk, and quite another to write !—Yours
faithfully, MARC ARET BRIGGs.
[P.S.] My daughters have just told me that Mrs. D. was married in
April, 1889, and I believe [Mr. F.’s] letter is dated some time in 1891, but
I do not know who ﬁrst told me.
From Miss Briggs.
January 21st [I899].
I am Mrs. Briggs’ daughter and a school companion of Mrs. D. when
she was Miss F. I am inte'rested in your correspondence about the coin
cidence of Mrs. D. and her father apparently seeing the same apparition of her
grandmother, his mother. I am trying to ﬁnd out the date of my mother’s
meeting.Mr. F., which she certainly did. I distinctly remember her talking
of the circumstance in Yorkshire after her return from London when she
was waiting for the written account of the apparition to be sent to Professor
Sidgwick. I think this was between April and June, probably in 1890,
from other attendant circumstances.
As I am writing to Mrs. D , however, I will ask her if she can ﬁnd out
when my mother was at their house after her marriage-—an unmarried sister
might remember.
Mr. F. my sister had spoken of when she stayed with the family as
living a good deal aloof and saying little to them ; so to us it seemed quite
natural that Mrs. D. should not' have told her experience, at least to him ;
to the other members of the family it was strange. We were surprised at
my mother’s extracting such an interesting story from Mr. F., usually so
uncommunicative
E. A. BR1ons.
The following account of experiences in a “haunted house” (the
address of which we are requested not to publish) near Londonderry,
MAY, 1900.] Cases. 245
was also obtained through the kindness of Mrs. Briggs from Mrs. D.,
who writes :—
November 9th, 1898.
As to the haunted house we lived in near Londonderry from June. 1889,
to August 31st, 1892, it would take pages to mention all the different things
that were seen and heard there. Every servant we had saw or felt “ghosts”
about them, but there were intervals when all was normal. I often heard
the crackling of bones and the rustle of non—material creatures, but as I
never saw one—and I devoutly prayed that I should not—I leave my
husband to give his version of what he saw there, and at one time there was
no greater sceptic about apparitions than he was.
The account enclosed from Mr. D. was as follows :
In the year 1892 I was living in a house [near] the city of Londonderry.
It was early in January that the following incident happened. I went to
bed about 10.30 and shortly afterwards was sound asleep. During the night
I heard loud talking in the room, but at ﬁrst I did not open my eyes. As
the talking continued, I looked up and distinctly saw an old lady standing at
the foot of the bed, and gazing intently at me. To get a good view of her
I sat up in bed and watched her for fully ﬁve minutes, she all the time
looking quietly into my face. There was no light in the room at the time,
but still I could see her quite distinctly, as there was a halo round her.
After watching her for some time I reached out my hand to the matchbox
to strike a light, but as soon as I moved my hand towards the matches I
saw the face getting more indistinct. I therefore drew back my hand and
watched the ﬁgure getting more and more dim till it suddenly vanished.
Then a curious thing happened. Outside the house and within ten yards
of the bedroom window I had two kennels, in which a bulldog and a fox
terrier were chained. The moment the ﬁgure vanished these two dogs began
to bark furiously and seemed terribly excited, as if they were trying to get
at some one. I conclude that they must have seen the spirit after it left my
room, for before it disappeared everything about the place was perfectly
quiet. The dogs continued barking for a few minutes and then all was quiet
again. '
The following August I left this house and let it furnished. After [my
tenant] had been in the house for about three months, I asked him one day
if he ever saw or heard anything peculiar about the place. He laughed and
said he did not believe in ghosts, but that their parlour-maid had seen some
thing. I asked him what it was, and he told me that one night he and his
wife were in the drawing-room and the servants had just gone upstairs to
bed. A few minutes later the parlour-maid came into the room looking
very frightened. She said that as she was passing the spare room (the one
I was in the night I saw the spirit) an old lady suddenly walked out of the
room, crossed the passage in front of her, and disappeared into the bedroom
opposite. When I let the house I never mentioned to any one what I had
seen, and the servants were entire strangers in the district, having come
from Dublin.
2&6 Journal of Society for l’sycluicod Resecwch. [MAY,1900.
I may add that a great deal of trouble came to us between the visit of
the spirit to me and our leaving the house at the end of the following
August. For one thing our only baby child died on the 1st of August, and
on the night before the cook was too frightened, by hearing spirits around
her, to go to her bedroom, but preferred to sleep at the foot of the nurse’s
bed, where they both heard the strangest sounds, as did the nurse on the
following night just before the child died. After [my tenant] left, I put my
gardener and his wife into the house to look after it, and although they had
it rent free, nothing would persuade them to stay. They said they could
not live in such a place, and detailed to us the strangest experiences.
The only other spiritual being I saw in the house (although I often heard
them) was the day before we left, when about 6 p.m. I was standing under
some trees about 100 yds. from the house. Then I saw a shadowy substance
about 3 or 4 ft. high running quickly up the path beside me. I stepped out
into the path to get a full view of it. It went very fast and I thought it
was going to pass the house, but the moment it got opposite the hall door it
suddenly bounded to the right through the doorway into the hall. The door
was open and my wife came out a moment later, but had seen nothing.
After I had seen the ﬁrst spirit of the woman, my wife asked a lady who
had lived there previously if she had ever seen anything of the kind. She
replied that their servant had on several occasions seen an old woman in
spirit form, and from her account it was evidently the same as I had seen.
(Signed in full) -— —
‘We have not been able to obtain any further evidence about the
apparitions alleged to have been seen in the house. Mrs. D. also sent
us a description written by one of her servants of various noises heard
there by them. There is no clear evidence, however, that these noises
were in any way supernormal, and it seems not unlikely that the state
of nervousness and expectancy produced by them may have led to the
visual hallucinations experienced by some of the inhabitants.
L. 1120. Collective (?) Apparition.
The following account was sent to us by the Rev. R. G. Milburn,
an Associate of the Society, having been written—evidently with
scrupulous care—on the day that the incident occurred.
It will be seen that the nature of the ﬁrst incident described is
and must remain doubtful, since Mr. Milburn could not be certain
whether the horse and brougham that he saw were real or hallucina
tory, and, under the circumstances, no further inquiries could possibly
clear up this point afterwards. There are two reasons for thinking
that they were hallucinatory: (1) The maid who shared Mr. Milburn’s
experience afterwards saw a brougham again, which was undoubtedly
MAY, 1000.] Cases. 247
hallucinatory, since other persons with her looking at the same
spot saw nothing; and this suggests that her ﬁrst experience was
of the same nature; (2) it seems to have been very unlikely that
a real brougham should have come into the front garden in the way
described. Further, the witnesses thought that they recognised the
brougham, horse and coachman (whose originals were certainly else
where at the time). Too much stress, however, cannot be laid on the
recognition, as it might have been due to suggestion ; it also occurred
in an imperfect light, in which mistakes of identity might more easily
have been made.
Mr. Milburn describes the occurrence as follows :—
Hollywood House, Wimbledon Common, December 27th, 1899.
Today, December 27th, 1899, my mother, brothers, and sister had taken
some small cousins and two other children to the pantomime. Some of the
party, including my mother, went in a brougham. During the performance
the coachman seems to have taken more to drink than was expedient, for
believing which there are reasons, though it cannot be proved that he was
actually drunk. On the way home the brougham collided with an omnibus,
and suffered some injury, though no one in it was hurt. The party started
home from the theatre (the Lyceum) at about 5.10 or 5.15 p.m. At about
4.30 p.m. a maid saw the brougham waiting at the front door of this house.
She saw the coachman’s face, and says she could swear to its having been
he. She also saw one of my cousins (who was not in the vehicle at the time
of the accident) step out of the brougham and run up the steps toward the
house. She heard no bell ring. A few minutes later she saw the brougham
in the yard with the horse taken out and the coachman walking about in
stable boots, as if cleaning the carriage. She told the housemaid what she
had seen. She also told my grandmother. My grandmother told me at about
4.55 p.m. that Howe (the maid) had seen the brougham.
At about the time that the maid saw the brougham—I should say about
4.35 p.m.—I thought I heard a brougham draw up and some one get out
and run up the steps. I heard no bell. I looked out of the window
and saw a brougham drive out of the front garden. I assumed it to be
ours, and watched it, wondering where it was off to; it did not take
the direction I thought most probable. I then assumed it to have been
the brougham of some visitor, but I subsequently found that the servants
knew nothing of any one having called, nor did my grandmother. When
the latter told me that Howe had seen the brougham (i.e., our brougham) I
said that it was a mistake and that it was some other brougham. When 1
came into the room where my grandmother was at about 5.30 p.m. I heard
the maid saying something to her about going into the witness-box. My
grandmother told me that the maid was positive she had seen our coachman.
My mother and those with her arrived home about 6.30. Those of
the party who came by train arrived about 6.15. The maid told me what
she had seen at about 7.15 p.m. When I cross-questioned her about it
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY,1900.
a little later, she said the time was about half-past four or a little later
about twenty-ﬁve minutes to ﬁve. When she found that the brougham
had not returned she was in a great fright, and was afraid my mother must
have been killed. Nothing of the kind had happened to her before, but
she knew of a case that had happened in her village. At about 10.30
p.m. I spoke to the housemaid, who told me that Howe had told her that
she had seen the brougham and the coachman. It was about half-past
four, or perhaps a little earlier, that she had told her this.
R. G. MILBuRN.
December 28th.—All the servants deny that they saw or heard any
brougham come yesterday. My grandmother heard a brougham come (she
was with the maid Howe at the time, about 4.30) and saw the top of the
brougham or the coachman’s hat pass the window and then pass again as if
driving away again. (This coincides with what I saw; a brougham would
have to pass the window twice in turning round a ﬂower-bed on the path
before driving out again.) In the meanwhile Howe had left the room to tell
the housemaid, and saw the brougham as described in the stable-yard. I
asked her to-day whether she was very nervous when she found that the
brougham had not really returned. She replied, “ I was very frightened
indeed.” I then asked her whether she had prayed. She answered, “I
committed Mrs. Milburn to God’s care.” It would take, I am told, three
quarters of an hour to drive from here to the Lyceum. I have asked the
coachman’s wife whether he was here yesterday afternoon; she says no.
Howe recognised the brougham and horse as well as the coachman, but she
doubts whether my grandmother, who is very old and has a very uncertain
recollection, either saw or heard anything. The brougham which I saw drive
out went in the direction of Kingston ; not towards London.
The coachman, who has just returned from taking the brougham to be
mended, denies that he was here yesterday afternoon, and declares that the
horse was not put into the brougham again till 4.50. R‘ G. MILBURN.
The above statements, so far as they relate to my experiences, are
absolutely correct.
(Signed) EDITH S. A. Hows,
December 28th, 1899.
Mr. Milburn adds :—
This account should have stated that after telling the other servants, the
maid Howe looked in the stable-yard a second time and still saw the
brougham, etc. The other servants looked into the yard, but saw nothing.
It cannot be proved that no brougham came into the front garden by
mistake, and after stopping a minute, drove out again.
Mr. Milburn writes later :
January 5th, 1900.
Our coachman put up at Ward’s, (jobmaster, etc.), Endel-street, Drury
lane. None of us here doubt this part of the story. Even if the coachman
could have driven over here by 4.30 or 4.35, taken the horse out, cleaned the
MAY, 1900.] ' Cases. ' - ' 249
brougham, put it in again and driven up in time (and they say the horse did
not look as if it had just been driven when they started home)—it would
have been so absolutely irrational and pointless a thing to do that it is
incredible. R, G. MmRoRN
The sceptical explanation is not that the coachman really drove
over here, but that a brougham resembling ours drove in by mistake (and
this cannot be disproved) and that the vision in the stable-yard was due to
the maid’s nervousness or “ imagination.”
The following letters from Mr. Milburn give further details of the
incident, in answer to our questions :—
Hollywood House, Wimbledon Common, January 23rd, 1900.
I send you, as desired, a plan of the front garden, stable-yard, etc. [see p.
250]. The lines on the drive and stable-yard indicate the places where the
brougham was seen ; the dots indicate the way it must have gone where its
movements were not followed. The [dots] in the house indicate the move
ments of the maid. A is where she was sitting when she heard the brougham
drive up. She then went to B to look out of the window and saw it drive up
and stop, or that it had stopped, I forget which, at the front door. She then
saw the carriage door open and a little boy (who was one of the party, but had
not been in the brougham, at any rate on its way back) get out and come up
the steps. Then she returned to A. Not hearing any ring, she went back to
O (= B) and saw the brougham still there. It was just beginning to grow
dusk then (about 4.30 or 35), and she could clearly see the coachman’s face
as well as the horse and the carriage. She then returned from the window,
but, still hearing nothing, she went to ask whether the party had returned.
Hearing from the other servants that they had not, she opened the side door
and saw from point D the brougham straight in front of her in the yard.
She then told the housemaid and parlourmaid, who both looked out from the
same place, D, but could not see it. Then she came back herself and saw it
again [at E] (E=D). The lamp in the stable-yard had been lighted. The
room from which she saw it ﬁrst was on the ground ﬂoor, as is also the door,
I) and E. I was two stories higher up above the same room. The lodge
keeper was away.
The maid began to feel alarmed when she learnt that the party in
the brougham had not returned, i.e., after she had seen it in the front, but
before she had seen it in the stable-yard.
January 31st, 1900.
I feel pretty sure that the maid could not have suspected that the coach
man would get intoxicated. He has never, to our knowledge, taken too
much since he has been with us before. He is an extremely good coachman ;
the horse then in the brougham was by no means an excitable animal ; and
since it is such an extremely common thing for my mother to go out in the
brougham, and nothing dangerous, or alarming, or suspicious has happened
before, it is most improbable that she should have developed sudden_
suspicions of possible insobriety. I feel sure she would have told me if she
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY,1900.
MAY,1900.] A Supposed Case of “Spirit-Photograph;/.” 251
had done so, when telling me the story, and when I asked her (see end of my
last letter) whether or when she felt alarmed, she said that it was when the
other servants told her the brougham had not returned, i.e., after she had
twice seen the coachman, and, according to her very positive account,
recognised him plainly. She either said in so many words, or at least gave
me the decided impression, that she had not been anxious before.
A point I might have mentioned was that the brougham I saw seemed to
be walking very leisurely for one that had just discovered that it had got
into the wrong garden. The horse was walking when I ﬁrst saw it, though
it was trotting when it went out of the gate. A coachman who had come in
by mistake would probably have walked the horse smartly [round the
ﬂower-bed], and then trotted it out. But [at this point] it seemed to be
proceeding very leisurely, and more as if it were empty. It looked, as I
said, like our brougham, and I took it to be ours, but I could not speak very
positively. The coachman I did not particularly notice. The horse was
exactly like our horse to my eyes, but I could not swear that it was, and
when it went off up the Kingston-road I assumed that it was only another
very like ours. So my evidence cannot count as anything very clear and
deﬁnite.
Feb'ruar_1/ 21st, 1900.
I believe I stated in my last communication that the horse I saw
was “ exactly like ” the horse of ours that actually was in the brougham. I
should have said “the horse attracted a very fair amount of attention on my
part, and when I saw our animal the next morning (in the same place and
seen from the same room as the supposed apparition) I recognised that it
was exactly like the horse then seen.” As a matter of fact I had too vague
an idea of the colour of the animal previously to be able to recognise anything
as being “exactly” like it. . . . I believe [also that] I underrated my
recognition of the coachman. I was not certain enough that the coachman
seen by me was just like our coachman to make an argument about it from
my point of view worth while, so I think I was a little inclined to disclaim
too much all recognition of him for the sake of getting rid of the subject,
while at the same time avoiding overstatement .
R. G. MILBURN.
A SUPPOSED CASE OF “ SPIRIT-PHOTOGRAPHY.”
BY PRoFEssoR W. F. BARRETT.
Although the readers of this Journal must, I am sure, be getting
tired of the discussion on the case of supposed “ spirit-photography,”
a few concluding words seem necessary in reply to the remarks made
by Mr. McLachlan in the April number. These remarks are based
upon a series of assumptions which, so far as they relate to my own
experiments, are not only incorrect but the reverse of the truth. I
entered upon the investigation with an entirely open mind and should
252 Journal of Society for P8]/clricut Ifesewrch. [MAY, 1900.
not have taken up the matter at all had it not seemed to me that a
good primd facie case existed for investigation. When it became
evident, from my correspondence and interview with the lady who took
the photograph, that some one might have entered the ,room she was
photographing during her absence from it, and whilst the exposure
was taking place, my ﬁrst object was to see if an appearance in any
way resembling the so-called spirit-photograph could be produced by a
casual intruder. I confess, though I am an old amateur photographer,
that I was astonished to ﬁnd how close a resemblance was produced to
the legless and shadowy ﬁgure of the “ ghost” in the very ﬁrst photo
graphic experiment I made. The actual length of exposure in the two
cases, on which Mr. McLachlan bases so much, is simply a question of
light and the kind of plate used. The exposure in my experiment, Mr.
McLachlan assumes to have been “a minute or less” ; it was actually
about twenty minutes, one—third that of the “ ghost” picture.
Though of no particular novelty to experienced photographers, my
experiment showed clearly enough : (1) That during the exposure of a
plate for an “interior” a person may leisurely enter and leave a room,
coming well within the ﬁeld of the lens in so doing, and yet leave' no
trace of his entrance or exit. (2) That the intruder seating himself in
a chair for, say, about a sixtieth of the time of the total exposure, and
casually crossing and uncrossing his legs and moving one arm, leaves
an impression on the photographic plate suﬂiciently resembling that of
the so-called “spirit-photograph” to suggest a not improbable explana
tion of the latter. The only point that remained was the apparent
resemblance between the “ghost” and the deceased nobleman. The
evidence on this point, however, was too slight and conﬂicting to be of
any weight. It received nevertheless most careful and dispassionate
investigation ; in faet_ve_ry much more time and care was spent on the
inquiry than appears from the published record. Though there were
some curious points of apparent resemblance noticed, yet when one
takes i_nto account the diﬂiculty of avoiding reading some resemblance
into a shadowy ﬁgure which is seen seated in the room habitually
occupied by the deceased person when living, and the inevitable
association of ideas suggested by the funeral of that person taking
place close to ‘the spot and at the time the so-called “spirit
photograph ” was being taken, I think it is obvious how cautious we
should be in drawing any inferences from the dubious and conﬂicting
opinions that existed as to identiﬁcation. I should have been
extremely glad if Mr. McLachlan had been able to make an instructive
contribution to the discussion of this -interesting photograph, but I
cannot feel that he has succeeded in doing so.
No. CLXX.—VoL. IX. JuNE, 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOGIETY FOR PSYGHICAL RESEARGH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Member and Associates . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . . . . .. 253
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 254
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 254
The Fourth International Congress of Psychology .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 256
The Second International Congress of Hypnotism _ . .. .. . . . . . . . . 261
A Case of Duplex Personality . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265
Correspondence .. .. ._ .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 268
NEW MEMBER AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Jllmnbers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
MILTON, JoHN PENN, M.R.C.S. (Eng.), L,R.C.P. (Lond.), 13, North
Parade, Penzance.
SADLER, REv. G. T., B.A., 96, Erddig- road, Wrexham.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BEEBE, C. E , 408, West 9th-street, Chattanooga, Tenn.
BERGER, ALEX., c/o Central Granaries Co., Lincoln, Neb.
BRUCE, REv. JAMEs M., Yonkers, N.Y.
CLoTHIER, MRs. F. C., 55, Day-street, Fredonia, N.Y.
DE WITT, MRs. HARRIET, Colorado Springs, Colo.
DUGGIN, MRs. CHAs., 310, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Eady, T. J., Atlanta, Ga.
ELY, RoBERT ERsKINE, 744, Massachusetts-avenue, Cambridge, Mass.
FLoWER, MRs. GEoRGE \V., 615, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
FREEMAN, MRs. W. H., Box 322, Hinsdale, Ill.
GARLAND, M1ss CARoLINE, Librarian, Public Library, Dover, N.H.
LovEJoY, FoRREsT E., 46, Reading Hill-ave., Melrose Highlands, Mass.
MARsHALL, L. C., East Walpole, Mass.
MARsHALL, MRs. L. C., East Walpole, Mass.
PmCoFF, P. A., c/o U. H. Dudley and Co., cor. Hudson and Duane-sts.,
' New York, N.Y.
RUssELL, W. H., P.O. Box 984, Baltimore, Md.
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jumr., 1900.
SEDGWICK, MRs. H. D., JeNa, 120, E. 22nd St., New York, N.Y.
SHARP, MRs. KATE, c/o J. S. Morgan and Co., 22, Old Broad-street,
London, E.C.
STRICKLER, O. C., M.D., Post Oﬂice Block, New Ulm, Minn.
WHITE, MIss CATHARINE P., Grand Haven, Ottawa Co., Mich.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the rooms of the Society on May 18th.
The President, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, occupied the 'chair. There were
also present :—Professor W. F. Barrett, Sir William Crookes, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur
Smith, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Two new Associates were elected. The election of one new Member
and nineteen new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Names and addresses are given above.
The Council recorded with regret the decease of Mr. A. T.
Squarey, J.P., who had been an Associate of the Society for some
years.
Some presents to the Library were on the table, for which a vote
of thanks was passed to the donors.
The Treasurer reported that the Society’s bank account had been
transferred to the Temple Bar Branch of the London and Westminster
Bank, Limited.
The Council was informed that the Hon. Secretary had assumed
the name of J. G. Piddington, instead of J. G. Smith.
Several other matters having been attended to, it was agreed that
the next meeting of the Council should be on Friday, June 22nd, at
3 p.m., at the Westminster Town Hall, previous to the General
Meeting arranged for that day.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 105th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Westminster Town Hall on Friday, May 18th, at 8.30 p.m. The
President, MR. F. W. H. MYERs, in the chair, delivered an Address,
which is summarised in the following Argument :—
1. Psychical Research is no longer felt to need the recommendation
of names independently eminent in other branches of study.
Jviva, 1900.] General Meeting. 255
2. Yet if recognition is to be paid primarily to actual work per
formed for our Research, the name of Edmund Gurney must occur as
that which all would fain have honoured ;—the man whose attitude
towards our Research was of the loftiest, the most unselﬁsh kind,‘ the
man who -felt most strongly the sheer moral need of discovering a
future life, if the cruel injustices of this life are to be conceived as
compatible with a First Cause worthy of love or worship.
3, For most men the quest of immortality will answer to a stronger
element of personal desire ;—although such desire need not imply bias
in the estimation of evidence.
4. No attachment to Christian tradition, no recognition of the need
and value of high intuitions, should blind us to the fact that only on
truths scientiﬁcally demonstrated can a world-philosophy or world
religion be based.
5. Yet the facts proved by Science have not thus far been adequate
to satisfy the spiritual needs of mankind. May not Science discover
further facts which may at any rate prove the preamble of all religions ?
6. Such is our attempt ;—for we believe that by maintaining unity
of method in our search for every form of truth we have the best
chance of discovering new facts of deep spiritual importance.
7. And, in fact, this line of inquiry has already pointed us to a
hidden, subliminal world within us,—and through that world to an
unseen, but responsive, spiritual world without.
8. And if the messages from that unseen world be felt at present
to be inadequate to our desires, yet our faith in the coherence and
intelligibility of at least the material universe should lead us to trust
that clarity and dignity cannot be permanently lacking in any system
of communications which may proceed from the Universe of Spirit.
9. We seem, indeed, to be awakening into a new consciousness of
the living solidarity of the human race, in this world and the next,
which will afford an adequate motive for utmost effort and highest
hope.
10. But if we are thus to gain the advantage of scientiﬁc certainty
for our deepest beliefs, we are bound in return to treat the scientiﬁc
virtues as necessary to salvation.
11. The especial function of the Society for Psychical Research
should be to insist upon this view, and to form an advisory centre for
widespread investigation.
12. For aid in this task we can address our claim alike to the
scientiﬁc and to the religious world ; our wider Science, of which
Religion is the subjective aspect, must come not to destroy, but to
fulﬁl. '
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Juma, 1900.
THE FOURTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF
PSYCHOLOGY.
We desire to call the special attention of our readers to the
International Congress of Psychology, to be held at Paris, August 20th
to 25th, under the presidency of PRoFEssoR TH. RIBoT. It will be
seen that the schedule of subjects to be discussed includes many topics
‘bearing more or less directly on our own special studies. Those who
attended the previous Congresses of Psychology at Paris, London, and
Munich, will remember how much there was of interest and instruction
for psychical researchers in the papers and discussions that took place
on those occasions, and we hope that many of our members will ﬁnd
an opportunity of joining in the present Congress. _
We print below the provisional circular and programme issued
some months ago, hoping to be able to give a more complete account
of the scheme of proceedings in our next number. ' '
Application for membership of the Congress is to be Inade by
printed forms, which may be obtained from the General Secretary,
PRoFEssoR PIERRE JANET, Rue Barbet-de-Jouy, 21, Paris.
IVE CoNGRÈs INTERNATIoNAL DE PsYCHoLoGIE.
(Paris, 20—25 Août 1900.)
1VIoNsIEUIi,—Dans sa séance du 7 août 1896, 1e troisième Congrès de
psychologie, réuni à. Munich, sous la présidence de M. le professeur Stumpf,
nous a chargés dbrganiser 1a prochaine réunion du 4e Congrès international
de psychologie, à. Paris.
Nous avons l’honneur de vous annoncer que ce Congrès aura lieu à.
Paris, dans le Palais des Congrès, installé près de l’Exposition universelle, du
lundi 20 au samedi 25 août 1900, et nous vous invitons à. vouloir bien prendre
part à. ses travaux.
Nous croyons que le souvenir de nos réunions à. Paris en 1889, à. Londres
en 1892, à.Munich en 1896, engagera les membres des précédents Congrès de
psychologie à. proﬁter de cette occasion pour se réunir de nouveau. Nous
espérons que toutes les autres personnes, qui s’intéressent à. un titre quel
conque à. l’étude de l’esprit humain, voudront bien se joindre à. nous.
Professeurs de philosophie, physiologistes, médecins, jurisconsultes,
naturalistes, étudient, chacun de leur côté et avec des méthodes diﬁérentes,
la pensée de l’homme ; n’auraient-ils pas proﬁt et plaisir à. se connaître
davantage les uns les autres? Ce Congrès pourra, comme les précédents,
rendre un grand service aux études psychologiques, s’il permet à. tous ceux
qui, dans des pays divers et dans des situations différentes, s'intéressent aux
mêmes recherches, de se rencontrer, de se connaître et de s’apprécier
davantage.
JuNE, 1000.] Fourth International Congress of Psychology. 257
Agréez, Monsieur, l’assurance de nos sentiments très distingués.
Le Président, TH. R1soT,
Professeur de psychologie expérimentale et comparée au Collège de
France, Directeur de la Revue philosophique, 25, rue des Ecoles.
Le Vice-Président, CHARLEs RICHET,
Professeur de physiologie à. la Faculté de médecine de Paris,
Directeur de la Revue scientiﬁque, 15, rue de l’Université.
Le Secretaire général, DR. PIERRE JANET,
chargé du cours de psychologie expérimentale à. la Sorbonne, pro
fesseur remplaçant au Collège de France, directeur du laboratoire
de psychologie à. la Salpêtrière, 21, rue Barbet-de-Jouy.
Le Trésorier, M. FÉLIX ALCAN,
libraire-éditeur, 108, boulevard Saint-Germain.
ORGANIsATIoN.
I. L'ouverture du 4e Congrès international de psychologie aura lieu le
lundi 20 août 1900. '
Pourront prendre part au Congrès toutes les personnes qui s’intéressent
au développement des connaissances psychologiques. Les dames y seront
admises dans les mêmes conditions et avec les mêmes droits que les
messieurs.
Les personnes qui désirent adhérer au Congrès sont priées de remplir le
bulletin ci-joint et de l’envoyer sous enveloppe fermée et affranchie à. M. le
Dr. Pierre Janet, 21, rue Barbet-de-Jouy.
II. La cotisation des membres du Congrès est ﬁxée à. 20 francs. MM. les
adhérents sont priés de joindre à. leur bulletin un mandat-poste de 20 francs
pour l‘acquit de leur cotisation : ils recevront en retour la carte de membre
du Congrès.
Les membres du Congrès recevront gratuitement le journal du Congrès,
le programme des séances et un exemplaire des rapports oﬂiciels.
La carte de membre du Congrès donnera le droit d’entrée dans les divers
établissements d’instruction, dans les musées. laboratoires, hôpitaux, ainsi
qu’aux diverses réunions qui pourront être organisées.
Il est probable que des réductions de 40 p. 100 seront faites par les
compagnies de chemins de fer, pour les voyages aller et retour pendant la
durée de l’Exposition.
III. Les travaux du Congrès se feront soit dans des séances générales,
soit dans des séances de sections dirigées par les présidents des sections.
Les sections seront au nombre de sept, et auront les titres suivants : 1o
Psychologie dans ses rapports avec l'anatomie et la physiologie; 2° Psychologie
introspective dans ses rapports avec la philosophie; 3° Psychologie eœpérimenta/le
et psycho-physiqne; 49 Psychologie pathologique et psychiatrie; 5O Psychologie
de Phypnotisme, de la suggestion et questions connexes; 6° Psychologie sociale et
criminelle; '7° Psychologie animale et comparée, anthropologie, ethnologie.
Les langues admises dans les discussions sont: l’allemand, Fanglais, le
français et l’italien.
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JuNE, 1900.
La durée d’une communication dans les sections est ﬁxée à. vingt minutes
au plus.
Les personnes qui désirent faire une communication sont instamment
priées d’indiquer le plus tôt possible, et au plus tard le 1er janvier 1900, le
titre de leur étude et d’envoyer au secrétariat un extrait succinct, un résumé
ne dépassant pas deux pages imprimées.
Ces extraits seront imprimés et distribués avant chaque séance à. l’audi
toire, aﬁn de rendre plus facile l’intelligence de la communication.
Une exposition de documents et d’appareils de précision ayant rapport
a la psychologie sera peut-être annexée au Congrès ; les personnes qui
désireraient présenter des documents ou des appareils sont priées de nous en
faire part le plus tôt possible.
MM. les membres du Comité donneront volontiers tous les renseignements
complémentaires qui leur seront demandés. D'ailleurs un programme plus
complet sera envoyé prochainement aux personnes qui auront adhéré au
Congrès.
PRÉsIDENTs DE SECTIoNs.
I. Psychologie dans ses rapports area l’anatomie et la physiologie.
MM.
DUvAL (Dr. Mathias), professeur (l'histologie à. la Faculté de médecine de
Paris, professeur à. l’Ecole d’anthropologie et à. 1’Ecole des beaux arts,
cite’ Malesherbes (rue des Martyrs), 11.
II. Psychologie introspective dans ses rapports avec la philosophie.
SÉAILLEs (G.), professeur de philosophie à. la Sorbonne, rue Lauristou, 25.
III. Psychologie expérimentale et psychophysique.
BINET (A.), directeur du laboratoire de psychologie de l’École des hautes
études (a la Sorbonne), rue du Départ, à Meudon (SeineAet-Oise).
IV. Psychologie pathologique et psychiatrie.
Dl" MAGNAN, médecin de l’asile Sainte-Aune, membre de l’Académie de
médecine, rue Cabanis, 1.
V. Psychologie de Phypnotisme, de la suggestion et questions connexes.
D? BERNHEIM, professeur de clinique interne à. la Faculté de médecine de
Nancy, place de la Carrière, 24, à Nancy.
VI. Psychologie sociale et criminelle.
TARDE, chef du bureau de la statistique (Ministère de la justice), rue Sainte
Placide, 62.
VII. Psychologie animale et comparée, anthropologie, ethnologie.
DELAGE (YvEs), professeur de zoologie et d’anatomie comparée à la Sorbonne,
rue du Marché, 16, à Sceaux (Seine).
MM_ COMITÉ LoCAL DE RÉCEPTIoN.
BALBIANI. professeur d’embrybgénie comparée au Collège de France, rue
Souﬂlot, 18.
BEAUNIs(DT), directeur honoraire du laboratoire de psychologie de l’École
des hautes études (Sorbonne), villa Sainte-Genevièi-e, promenade de la
Croisette, à Cannes (Alpes-Maritimes).
JuNs, 1900.] Fourth International Congress of Psychology. 259
MM.
BERGsoN, maître de conférences de philosophie à. l’École normale supérieure,
boulevard Saint-Michel, 76.
BoURGET (Paul), Inembre de I’Académie française, rue Barbet-de-Jouy, 20.
BoUTRoUX, membre de l’Institut, professeur d’histoire de la philosophie à. la
Sorbonne, rue Saint-Jacques, 260.
BRoCEARD, professur d’histoire de la philosophie ancienne à. la Sorbonne,
rue de Porissy, 18.
BUIssoN, professeur de science de l’éducation à. la Sorbonne, boulevard du
Montparnasse, 166.
CRUPPI (Jean), avocat général à, la Cour d’appel, député de la Haute
Garonne, rue Spontinl, 68.
DABIEX (DT), directeur des Annales des sciences psychiques, rue du Belley, 6.
EsPnus, chargé du cours d’histoire de l’économie sociale a la Sorbonne,
ancien doyen de la Faculté des lettres de Bordeaux, rue du Ranelagh, 84.
FÉRË (DT). médecin de Bicêtre, boulevard Saint-Michel, 37'.
FoUILLÉE, membre de l’Institut, villa Feuillée, à Menton (Alpes-Maritimes).
FRANÇoIs-FRANCK (DT), professeur suppléant de physiologie au Collège de
France, rue Saintc-Philippe-du-Roule, 5.
GLEY (DT), assistant au Muséum, professeur agrégé de physiologie à. Faculté
de médecine, rue M01m'eur-le- Prince, 11,.
JANET (Paul), membre de l’Institut, ancien professeur de philosophie à. la
Sorbonne, rue de Grenelle, 59.
JoFFRoY (DT), professeur de la clinique de médecine mentale à. la Faculté de
médecine, boulevard Saint-Germain, 195.
LACAsSAGNE (DT), professeur de médecine légale à. la Faculté de médecine,
place Raspail, 1, à Lyon (Rhôrle).
LACAzE-DUTHIERs (H. DE), membre de l’lnstitut, professeur de zoologie à. la
Sorbonne, rue FEstraplade, 7.
LÉvEILLÉ, professeur à. l’Ecole de droite, rue du Cherche-Midi, 55.
LIARD, membre de l’Institut, directeur de l’enseignement supérieur au
Ministère de Finstruction publique, rue de Fleurus. 27.
LYoN, maître de conférences d’histoire de la philosophie à. l’École normale
supérieure, rue Ampère, 11 .
MANouvRIER. professeur à. l’École d’anthropologie, rue de l'École-de
Médecine, 15.
PAULHAN, ancien bibliothécaire, rue de Chdlillon, à Viry-Chdtillon (Seine
et-Oise).
RABIER, directeur de l’enseignement secondaire au Ministère de l’instruction
publique, rue de Fleurus, £27.
RAYMoND (DT), professeur de la clinique des maladies du système nerveux,
médecin de la Salpêtrière, boulevard Haussmarm, 156.
SÉGLAs (DT), médecin de Bicêtre, rue de Rennes, 96.
SoLLIER (DT), directeur de l’lnstitut hydrothérapique de Boulogne-sur-Seine,
avenue de Versailles, 145.
SoURY (Jules), directeur des conférences à. l’École des Hautes études (a la
Sorbonne), rue Gay-Lussac, 21.
SULLY-PRUDHoMME, membre de 1'Acac1émie française, rue du Faubourg
Saint-Hmwré, 82.
WEIss (DT A.), professeur agrégé à. la Faculté de médecine, avenue Jules
Janin, 20.
260 Journal of Society for Psychicat Research. [Jmm,1900.
- CoMITE INTERNATIoNAL DE PRoPAGANDE
Nommé par le Congrés de lllunich le 7 Aoiit 1896.*
ALLEMAGNL
Dr. Hermann EBBINGHAUs, Professor der Philosophie an der Universitit,
Kaiser Wilhelmstrasse, 84, Breslau.
Dr. Paul FLECHsIG, Kgl. Geheimrath, Prof. der Psychiatric und Direktor
der Irrenanstalt. Psychiatrische Klinik. Leipzig.
Dr. E. HERING, Prof. der Physiologie, Liebigstn, 16, Leipzig.
Dr. Th. LIPPs, Prof. der Philosophie an der Universitit, Georgenstrasse, 18,
Munich.
Dr. Frhr. von SCHRENCK-NoTzING, prakt. Arzt, Max Josephstrasse, 2/1,
Munich.
Dr. Carl STUMPF, Prof. der Philosophie an der Universitéit, Nurnberger
strasse, 14, Berlin, W.
Dr. Wilhelm WUNDT, Prof. der Philosophie und Direktor der Institute fiir
experimentelle Psychologie an der Universitiit, Leipzig.
ANGLETERRE.
Dr. A. BAIN, Prof. of Philosophy, Aberdeen.
Prof. Dr. FERRIER, 84, Cavendish Square, London, W.
Frederic W. H. MYERS, M.A., Leekhampton House, Cambridge.
Prof. Henry SIDGWICK, Newnham College, Cambridge.
Prof. James SuLLY (of University College, London), East Heath Road,
Hampstead, London, N. W.
AUTRICHE.
Dr. Sigm. EXNER, K. K. Hofrath, Prof. der Physiologie, Physiol. lnsbitut,
Schwarzspaniemtrasse, 15, Wien, IX.
Dr. Anton MARTY, Prof. an der Universitéit, Prague.
Dr. Alexius MEINoNG, Prof. der Philosophie an der Universitib, Heinrich
strasse, 7, Grate.
DANEMARK.
Dr. Alfred LEHMANN, Docent de psychologie experimentale e. l’Université,
Osterbrogade, 7, Copenhague.
ETATs-UNIs D’AMﬁMQUE.
Prof. Mark BALDWIN, Prof. of Psychology at the Princeton University,
Princeton, New Jersey.
Prof. STANLEY-HALL, Clark University, Worcester, Mass.
Prof. William JAMEs, Harvard University, Irving Street, 95, Cambridge, Mass.
Prof. Edward Bradford TITCHENER, Prof. of Psychology, Cornell University,
Ithaca, New York.
EsPAGNE.
Prof. Dr. RAMoN Y CAJAL, prof. en la Universidad. Madrid.
FRANCE. I
M. A, BINET, directeur du laboratoire de psychologie à l’Ecole des Hautes
Etudes (Sorbonne), rue du Départ, à Meudon (Seine-et-Oise).
Dr Pierre JANET, chargé du cours de psychologie expérimentale 51 la Sorbonne,
professeur remplargant an Collége de France, directeur du laboratoire de
psychologie de la clinique .5, la Salpétriéare, rue Barbet-de-Jouy, 21, à Paris.
* Comptes rendus du Congres de Munich, 1877, P. 164.
Jun, \900.] Second International Congress of Hypnotism. 261
Prof. Th. RxBoT, professeur de psychologie expérimentale et comparée au
Collège de France, directeur de la Revue philosophique, rue des Ecoles,
25, Paris.
Prof. Ch. RICHET, professeur de physiologie à, la Faculté de médecine, direc
teur de la Revue scientiﬁque, rue de l’Université, 15, Paris.
ITALIE.
Dr. F. BRENTANo, prof. de philosophie à. ]’Université, Florence.
Dr. G. MINGAzzINI, prof. de psychiatrie, Manicomio, Rome.
Dr. Enrico MoRsELLI, prof. de clinica, delle malattie mentali e di neuro
patologia, direttore dell’ Istituto psichiatrico nella R. Universita, via
Assarotti, 46, Gênes.
Dr. Mosso (Angelo), prof. de physiologie, Tarin.
Dr. Guiseppe SERGI, prof. di antropologia alla R. Universita, Istituto
ﬁsiologlco, Rome.
Russm.
Dr. GRoTE, prof. à. l’Université, président de la Société psychologique, Odessa.
Dr. S. KoRsAKoW, prof. de psychiatrie à. l’Université, Devitschie pole
Psychiatrische Klinik, Moscou.
Dr. Nikolaus LANGE, prof. à. l’Université, Odessa.
Dr. Maurice MENDELssoHN, docent de médecine, Galernaiastrasse, 270, Saint
Pétersbourg.
SUEDE, NoRvEGE.
Prof. HENsCHEN, à l’Université, Upsala.
Dr. J. MoURLY-VoLD, prof. de philosophie à. l’Université, Christiania.
SUIssE.
Dr. Th. FLoURNoY, prof. de philosophie à l’Université, Florissant, 9, Genéve.
Dr. August FoRm, prof. à l’Université, Zurich.
THE SECOND INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF
HYPNOTISM.
We have received the following preliminary programme of the
International Congress of Hypnotism, to be held in Paris, August
l2th—l6th, 1900.
IIE CoNGRÈs INTERNATIoNAL DE IBHYPNoTIsME EXPERIMENTAL ET
THÉRAPEUTIQUE.
(Paris, 12—16 Août 1900.)
MoNsIEUR,-—Le premier Congrès international de l’Hypn0tisme expéri
mental et thérapeutique qui s’est réuni en 1889, à. l’H6tel-Dieu, sous la
présidence de M. Dumontpallier, membre de l’Académie de médecine. avait
conﬁé à. une commission composée de MM. Dumontpallier, Bérillon, Gilbert
Ballet, Bernheim, Grasset, Liégeois, Auguste Voisin, Ladame (de Genève),
Masoin (de Louvain), le soin d’organiser le Congrès suivant.
Cette commission ayant délégué ses pouvoirs au bureau de la Société
dfhypnologie, cette société s’est réunie en assemblée générale le 16 mai 1898,
et a exprimé le vœu que le second Congrès de l’Hypnotisme expérimental et
262 Journal of Society for Psych/lcal Reseu/rch. [Jum, 1900.
thérapeutique eût lieu à. Paris, au mois d’août 1900, immédiatement après la
clôture du Congrés international de médecine.
Se conformant à. ce vœu, la Commission supérieure des Congrès a décidé
de rattacher le second Congrès international de l’Hypnotisme à. la série des
Congrès de l’Exposition et M. le Commissaire général a nommé une commis
sion d’organisation.
Cette Commission, convoquée par M. le professeur Gariel, délégué
principal pour les Congrès, s’est réunie le 17 avril 1899. Elle a constitué
son bureau, institué un comité de patronage, mis à. l’ordre du jour un certain
nombre de questions générales et ﬁxé l’ouverture du Congrès au dimanche
12 août 1900, a 3 heures, au Palais des Congrès de l’Exposition.
EXPosÉ.
En conviant au deuœième Congrès international de lCHupnotisme expéri
mental et thérapeutique les savants français et étrangers qui s’intéressent au
progTès de l’Hypnotisme, les organisateurs rappellent que le premier Congrès
a réuni en 1889 un nombre considérable de médecins, de professeurs de
philosophie, de magistrats, d’avocats et de sociologues et que les communica
tions ont donné lieu à. des débats fort importants.
Tous ceux qui ont pris part aux travaux de ce Congrès se souviennent de
l’esprit de concorde et de progrès qui a animé les congressistes pendant la
durée de ces assises mémorables.
Le deuxième Congrès aura pour but principal :
1° De ﬁxer d’une façon déﬁnitive la terminologie de la science de l’hypno
tisme ;
2° D’enregistrer et de déterminer les acquisitions réelles faites jusqu’à ce
jour dans le domaine de l’hypnotisme.
Pour conserver au Congrès son caractère exclusivement scientiﬁque, le
Comité n’acceptera que les communications se rapportant aux applications
cliniques,' médico-légales, psycho-physiologiques, pédagogiques et sociolo
giques de l’hypnotisme et des phénomènes qui s’y rattachent.
Le but du second Congrès de l’hypnotisme est ainsi nettement tracé.
Il est donc entendu que le Congrès de l’hypnotisme n’empiétera sur aucun
des domaines réservés à. d’autres congrès se réunissant vers la même époque.
La réunion du Congrès suivra presque immédiatement celle du Congrès inter
national des sciences médicales.
RÈGLEMENT.
Article Premier.
Le Congrès se réunira à. Paris, du 12 au 16 août 1900. La séance d’ouver
ture est ﬁxée au dimanche 12 août à. 3 heures. Les séances auront lieu au
Palais des Congrès.
Seront membres du Congrès :
10 Les membres de la Société d’hypnologie et de psychologie ;
2° Tous les adhérents qui auront fait parvenir leur adhésion avant le
5 août 1900.
Art. 2.
Les adhérents au Congrès auront seuls le droit de prendre part aux
discussions.
JuNE, 1900.] Second International Congress of Hypnotism. 263
Art. 3.
Le droit d’admission est ﬁxé à. 20 francs.
Art. 4.
Le Congrès se composera :
1° D'une séance d’ouverture ;
2° De séances consacrées à. la discussion des rapports et aux communica
tions ;
3° De conférences générals (avec projections) ;
4° De visites dans les hôpitaux et hospices ;
5° D’excursions, de réceptions et de fêtes organisées par le Bureau.
Art. 5.
Les communications seront divisées en quatre groupes :
1° Applications cliniques et thérapeutiques (le l’hypnotisme et de la
suggestion ;
2° Applications pédagogiques et sociologiques ;
3° Applications psycho-physiologiques ;
4° Applications médico-légales.
Art. 6.
Les communications et les comptes rendus des discussions seront réunis
dans une publication adressée à. tous les adhérents.
Art. 7.
Les adhérents sont invités à adresser le plus tôt possible le titre de leurs
communications à. M. le Secrétaire général.
Les manuscrits des communications devront être déposés sur le Bureau
avant la ﬁn de la séance. Les orateurs qui auront pris la parole dans la
discussion devront remettre leur argumentation au cours même de la séance.
Toutes les communications relatives au Congrès, demandes d’admis«
sion, ouvrages manuscrits et imprimés, etc., doivent être adressés a M.
le docteur BÉRILLoN’, secrétaire général, 14, rue Taitbout, à. Paris
(Telephone 224—0l).
CoMMIssIoN TYORGANIsATIoN.
Président.
M. le docteur VoIsIN (Jules), médecin de la Salpêtrière, président de
la Société d’hypnologie.
Vice-Présidents.
MM. DAURIAC (Lionel), professeur honoraire à. la Faculté des lettres de
Montpellier, professeur de philosophie au lycée Janson de Sailly.
le docteur GRAssET, professeur a la Facultéde médecine de Montpellier.
LIÉGEoIs, professeur a la Faculté de droit de Nancy.
MELCoT, avocat général à. la Cour de Cassation.
Secrétaire général.
M. le docteur BÉRILLoN, médecin inspecteur des asiles d’aliénés de la
Seine, directeur de la Revue de l’Hypiwtisme.
Secrétaire général adjoint.
M. le docteur FAREz (Paul), licencié en philosophie.
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jun, 1900.
Secrétaires.
MM. JULLIoT, docteur en droit.
le docteur LEMEsLE (Henry), licencié en droit.
LÉPINAY, médecin vétérinaire.
le docteur REGNAULT (Félix), ancien interne des hôpitaux.
Trésorier.
M. CoLAs (Albert), président de la Société d’études philosophiques et
sociales.
Présidents d'honneur.
MM. le docteur AzAM, professeur honoraire à. la Faculté de médecine de
Bordeaux.
le docteur JoFFRoY, professeur à. la Faculté de médecine de Paris.
le docteur RAYMoND, professeur à. la Faculté de médecine de Paris.
le docteur RICHET (Charles), professeur à. la Faculté de médecine
de Paris.
le docteur DURAND DE GRos.
le docteur LIÉBEAULT, de Nancy.
SoURY (Jules), professeur à. l’Ecole pratique des Hautes Études.
[The Committee of Patronage includes representatives of Austria,
Belgium, England, Germany, Greece, Holland, Italy, Russia, Servia, Spain,
Sweden and Norway, Switzerland, the United States. The English and
American members are the following :—
Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Cambridge.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., London. '
Dr. Franci Cruise, Dublin.
Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, London.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, London.
Professor James Sully, University College, London.
Professor Dana, New York.
Dr. MacDonald, Bureau of Education, Washington.
Dr. Hamilton Osgood, Boston.
Dr. Henrik Petersen, Boston.
Professor Maurice Zéligson, Cleveland, Ohio.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester.
Professor William James, Harvard University.]
QUEsTIoNs MIsEs À L’ORDRE DU JoUR.*
I.
Rédaction d’un vocabulaire concernant la terminologie de l’hypnotisme et
des phénomènes qui s'y rapportent.
Rapporteurs: M. le docteur BÉRILLoN, M. le docteur FABEz (Paul).
II.
Les rapports de l’hypnotisme avec Thystérie.
* Deux mois avant la réunion du Congrès, MM. les Rapporteurs devront adresser
à. M. le Secrétaire général le résumé et les conclusions de leurs rapports. Ces conclu
siens seront adressées à. tous les adhérents, aﬁn de permettre la discussion approfondie
des sujets mis a l’ordre du jour.
JuNE, 1900.] A Case of Dupleœ Personality. 265
Rapporteurs: M. le docteur MAGNIN (Paul), M. le docteur CRoCQ (de
Bruxelles).
III.
Les applications de l’hypnotisme a la thérapeutique générale.
Rapporteur: M. le docteur MILNE BRAMWELL (de Londres).
IV.
Les indications de l’hypnotisme et de la suggestion dans le traitement des
maladies mentales et de l’alcoolisme.
Rapporteurs: M. le docteur ToKARsKY (de Moscou), M. le docteur LLoYD
TUCKEY (de Londres). V
Le applications de l’hypnotisme à. le pédagogie générale et à l’orthopédie
mentale.
Rapporteur: M. le docteur BÉRILLoN.
VI.
Valeur de l’hypnotisme comme moyen d’investigation psychologique.
Rapporteurs: M. le docteur VoGT (de Berlin); M. le docteur FAREz
(Paul), M. le docteur REGNAULT (Félix).
VII.
Uhypnotisme devant la loi du 30 novembre 1892, sur l’exercice de la
médecine.—Intervention des pouvoirs publics dans la réglementation de
l’hypnotisme.
Rapporteurs: M. le docteur LEMEsLE (Henry), M. JULLIoT (CIL), docteur
en droit.
VIII.
La suggestion et l’hypnotisme dans leurs rapports avec la jurisprudence.
Rapporteurs: M. le docteur voN SCHRENCK-NoTzING (de Munich), M. le
docteur JoIRR (Peul), (de Lille).
IX
Responsabilités spéciales résultant ‘de la pratique de l’hypnotisme ex
périmental.
Rapporteur: M. le professeur Bonne.
A CASE OF DUPLEX PERSONALITY.
The following is a case of duplex personality similar to those of
which accounts have appeared from time to time in our Proceedings
and Journal ; see especially the case of Ansel Bourne, Proceedings, Vol.
VII., p. 221. This account is taken from an article entitled “ Duplex
Personality: Report of a Case,” by William F. Drewry, M.D., of Peters
burg, Virginia, U.S.A., in the Medico-Legal Journal for June, 1896.
The following case, which came under my observation within the past
year, and the details of which were kindly given me by an eminent
practitioner of Virginia,* who was the family physician of the patient,
typiﬁes the peculiar phases of duplex personality and periodic extinction of
* Dr. H. G. Leigh, Sr., of Petersburg, Va.
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jcss, 1900.
memory, and is interesting from a psychologic, as well as clinical point of
view. It is also of interest as regards forensic medicine.
Mr. K. was a man ﬁfty years old, of splendid physique, in good health,
in fairly comfortable circumstances, doing a mercantile business, sober,
moral and industrious, of affable disposition, popular with a large circle of
friends, member of several secret benevolent orders, and happy and
contented in his domestic relations. He was born and reared in the State ;
had resided and conducted business in————for twenty or more years, and
deservedly bore the reputation of being a correct, straightforward man in
every particular. He had for years been one of the town oﬂicials.
One of his near relatives (an uncle, I think) at about the age of ﬁfty,
without any apparent reason whatever, went out West, leaving his wife
and children, and was not heard of for many years. Finally he came back
on a visit and remained a short time with his family and old acquaintances.
No explanation was given of his strange conduct. It was thought that he
had some form of mental disease. I mention this case to show that Mr. K.
might have inherited some neuropathic taint or eccentricity.
One day, while apparently in perfect health, without any premonitory
symptoms of mental derangement, Mr. K. went to a northern city to
purchase goods for his store. While there two days he transacted a great
deal of business, met many old friends and exhibited no indication of
aberration of mind. Starting homeward he registered as a passenger on a
certain steamer; feeling very tired he secured a state-room, to which at
once he repaired, changed his linen, etc. When tickets were collected he
was missing. He had suddenly and mysteriously disappeared. No one had
seen him leave the boat, jump or fall overboard. An acquaintance, how
ever, said that he was reasonably certain that he saw Mr. K. several hours
after the boat had left, in one of the depots in the city. He was sitting
down, hat pulled over his face, and seemed to be in a “ deep study,” so he
was not disturbed. Mr. K.’s open valise and all his clothes, except those he
wore, were found in his state-room. The room door was open, but the key
had been taken away.
Some suspected he had been robbed and thrown overboard; others
thought he had (suddenly) become insane, or had had a ﬁt and fallen into
the sea ; the suicide theory was also indulged in, and the opinion was enter
tained by some that he had absconded. But what had become of him, why,
when and how he disappeared were mysteries. He had, unobserved, simply
“ stepped out into the great unknown.” A vigorous search was made to ﬁnd
him, dead or alive, detectives were employed, the newspapers teemed with
accounts of the strange and unaccountable going away of this well-known
man, but no clue was to be had that would throw any light whatever upon
his mysterious disappearance.
Finally search was abandoned, the theory that he was dead accepted, and
the court appointed an administrator of his estate and a guardian for his
children. His business was purchased by his son, and everything was
moving along smoothly, when, six months after he was last heard of, he
suddenly and unexpectedly appeared at the home of a relative in a distant
JuNE, 1900.] A Case of Duplex Personality. 267
southern city. [Ie was brought home in a composed, but partially dazed
condition, able to recognise but few of his friends. He was an entirely
changed man—the physical and psychical metamorphoses were quite
complete. He was hardly recognised by his friends. He had reduced in
weight from 250 to 150 pounds and was very feeble. He wore the same
suit of clothes he had on at the time he disappeared, and had in his pocket
the check and key which were given him on the boat.
He was at once put under treatment, and in four weeks he recovered his
previous bodily and mental health, and has since conducted his same old
business with his accustomed skill and industry. A day or two after his
return home an abscess, deep down in the auditory canal, broke and discharged
a large quantity of sanguino-purulent matter. Immediately thereupon
improvement began and went on rapidly. This was a 'remarkable fact, and
is, I think, worthy of special note.
Hear Mr. K.’s own account of his strange case: “I was feeling very
tired—thoroughly fatigued—after a very busy day in the city, so went to my
state-room immediately upon going aboard the boat and changed my
clothes. Up to that time I was thoroughly conscious, but after that I
recall nothing—a]l ‘was oblivion—till six months later when ‘I came sud
denly to myself’ in a distant city in the South, where I knew no one. I
found myself driving a fruit-waggon on the street. I was utterly astounded.
Why I was there, how and when I got there, where I came from, whatl had
been doing, were puzzling questions to me. Upon inquiry I learned that I
had been there, and at work, for some time. My life since I was in that
state-room had been an absolute blank to me. I can give no account of
myself during that period of time. I started at once for Virginia, but on
the way I again lost consciousness, though only for a day or two. When
further on my way home, I felt so utterly worn out, I stopped in a certain
town and went to the house of a very near relative. From there I was
taken home. I was in a half-dazed, confused condition, and remained so
some days longer. I am now feeling well and all right.”
This case bears many striking resemblances to others that have been
from time to time reported, but there are two points of special interest.
First, the inherited tendency to eccentricity, if not to insanity. His
mysterious disappearance occurred at the same age at which his progenitor
so strangely disappeared. Second, the abscess in the ear, the discharge of
which was followed by a rapid return to normal mentality. Is it not
probable that this abscess had some etiologic connection with the mental
trouble, by producing a maladjustment of the cerebral functions, a disturbance
of the circulation, an endarteritis, which would induce a condition of
encephalic anaemia, or a suppression of suppuration, which would effect a
hypereemia ?
“Loss of memory,” says Rosse, “following organic lesion, dynamic
trouble, or any sudden metabolic disturbance of the brain, may recover
rapidly.” Certainly Mr. K. made a rapid, uninterrupted recovery after the
abscess had discharged. His physician said that there was a perceptible
change for the better just as soon as the car was relieved.
268 Journal of Society for Psychicat Research. [JuNE, 1900.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not resjaonsible for opinions expressed by Corresponde-nts.]
[The following letter in reference to the discussion printed in the
Jonrnal for April on Professor Hyslop’s Report of his sittings
with Mrs. Piper, was received too late for insertion in the May
issue.—ED.]
(To the Editor of the JoURNAL oF THE SoCIETY FoR PsYCHIC.-KL RssEARoH.)
The abstract of Mr. Podmore’s remarks on my report, a part of which
was read at the meeting of March 2nd, indicates a misapprehension both of
my object and of my position in the discussion of my sittings, and disregards
also in one important case the most distinct disavowals possible on my part.
One would naturally suppose from his remarks at propos of the mental
attitude and phraseology of the chief communicator, that I had laid great
stress upon this feature of the case, when, as a matter of fact, I did nothing
of the sort. I have been at great pains to deal with many minor character
istics, not because I regarded them as evidential, but because it was
important to ascertain how far every little detail appeared consistent or
inconsistent with the main question at issue, and because triﬂes often
constitute corroborative incidents, while they have no intrinsic value if
taken alone. Nowhere in the report do I attempt to decide at large the
relative merits of the individual facts. I have left this to the reader with
the expectation that he would understand the psychological problem
suﬂiciently to render such an explanation unnecessary. I do not see
that I am obliged in every case to say whether my picture is a horse
or a cow.
The reader is also likely to misapprehe1id the statement about the names
in the ﬁrst sitting. One illustration impeaching the strength of the evidence
is that “of the names given at the ﬁrst sitting, only ﬁve out of seventeen
were identiﬁed as correct.” This absolutely ignores the fact that I had both
emphatically disclaimed in more than one passage any importance for that
sitting, and had actually isolated my account of it for that very reason. I
may add also that I should not have claimed any importance for it spiritis
tically if the whole seventeen names had been correct. My experiments on
identiﬁcation, imitating the Piper case in some of its aspects, and already
commented on in the Journal, show that personal identity can be established
successfully withoitt giving names on evidence as slight perhaps as is found
in my ﬁrst sitting, to say nothing of the later sittings. The real problem
depends less on names than on incidents and psychological considerations
that increase the difﬁculties of telepathy. On this latter point I had been
especially emphatic, and it leaves a false impression to omit the fact from
consideration while stating a truism about names.
J. H. HrsroP.
- Columbia University, New York.
April 20th, 1900.
No. CLXXI.—Vm.. IX. JuLY, 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
7
sonErY FOR PSYGHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS. PAGE
New Member and Associates .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. 269
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 269
General Meeting .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 270
Foundation of a Psychical Institute in Paris .. . .. .. .. . . . . . . 1:74
Obituary: Mary H. Kingsley .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 279
Cases .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. U .. .. 280
Mrs. Piper's present Trance Condition .. .. .. . . .. . . .. .. . . 286
Correspondence :—
Pseudo-Possession .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 288
The Range of he Subliminal .. ,. . . . . . . .. . . .. . . 289
The Fourth International Congress of Psychology .. .. .. . . .. . . .. 292
NEW MEMBER AND ASSOCIATES.
Names Qf Zlfembers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SHALL CAPITALs.
Raikes, Mrs., Leat House, Melton, Yorkshire.
SIvUDU, RAYAsAM VENKATA. B.A., Bezwada, Madras Presidency, India.
THoRNHILL, B., M.I.C.E., Geldeston, Beccles, Suffolk.
VILLIERs, MIss ADELA C., 44, Lennox Gardens, London, S.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
REID, DR. H. A., 133, Mary-street, Passadene, Cal.
RoBERTs, B. L., Canton, Miss.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the W'estminster Town Hall on June 22nd.
The President occupied the chair. There were also present:—Pro
fessor W. F. Barrett, Sir William Crookes, Mr. F. Podmore, and
Dr. A. Wallace.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
One new Member and three new Associates were elected. The
election of two new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Names and addresses are given above.
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jun, 1900.
Several other matters having been attended to, it was agreed that
the next Meeting of the Council should be on Monday, July 16th, at
19, Buckingham Street, at 4.30 p.m., a General Meeting having been
arranged for the evening of that day, at 8.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 106th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Westminster Town Hall on Friday, June 22nd, at 4 p.m. ; the
President, Mr. F. VV. H. MYERs, in the chair.
The PREsIDENT read a paper on “Pseudo-possession,” combining
reviews of two recent French works, Professor Janet’s Névroses ct idéea
fixes, and Professor Flournoy’s Des Indes (‘I la plométe Mars. Each of
these works treated of cases where there was an apparent invasion or
possession of a living human organism by an external spirit ; although
the cases in Professor Janet’s book were frankly pathological, while
with Professor Flournoy’s subject there was no reason to assume any
morbid taint.
Professor Janet’s book was a record of cases observed at the
Salpétriiare ;—and especially of idées ﬁa:es,—memories or imaginations
or emotions which somehow become hypertrophied and irremovable,—
dominating the patient’s mental life and resisting all ordinary
attempts to meet them by argument. Professor Janet has shown once
more how inﬁnitely more potent is hypnotic suggestion than any other
form of treatment in dealing with these “obsessions.” For these
ﬁxed ideas are in truth obsessions of mind as a whole by a particular
fragment of the mind. The man is obsessed by a memory or a
passion of his own which constrains him as cruelly as though it were
in fact a possessing devil.
In one case of Dr. Janet’s, indeed, the morbidly remorseful
memory of a past act did gradually assume for the sufferer the
personality of an indwelling ﬁend. It was precisely the sort of
demoniacal possession which in old days ecclesiastics healed with
exorcisms, or when exorcisms failed, with the stake. Dr. Janet used
gentler suggestions, and succeeded in gradually dispelling the morbid
preoccupation, and restoring the poor man from his imagined hell to
the existence of every day.
The book to which the speaker next turned had for readers of our
Proceedings an even directer interest. It happened, no doubt, to any
group which pursued for many years a somewhat unfamiliar line of
JuLY, 1900.] General Meeting. 271
inquiry that those of their points which were ﬁrst assailed got
gradually admitted, so that as they became interested in new points
they might scarcely observe what change had taken place in the
reception of the old. The reader of early volumes of our Proceedings
would often observe this kind of progress of opinion. And now
Professor Flournoy’s book indicated in a remarkable way how things
had moved in the psychology of the last twenty years. The book,—a
model of fairness throughout,—was, indeed, for the most part, criti
cally destructive in its treatment of the quasi-supernormal phenomena
with which it dealt. But what a mass of conceptions a competent
psychologist now took for granted in this realm, which the oﬂicial
science of twenty years ago would scarcely stomach our hinting at !
One important point might be noticed at once as decisively
corroborating a contention of the speaker’s own made long ago, and at
a time when it probably seemed fantastic to many readers. Arguing
for the potential continuity of subliminal mentation (as against those
who urged that there were only occasional ﬂashes of submerged
thought, like scattered dreams) he had said that it would soon be found
needful to press this notion of a continuous subliminal self to the
utmost, if we were not prepared to admit a continuous spiritual
guidance or possession. Now, in fact, with Professor Flournoy’s
subject the whole discussion turned on this very point. There was
unquestionably a continuous and complex series of thoughts and feel
ings going on beneath the threshold of consciousness of M118 “ Hélene
Smith.” Was this submerged mentation due in any degree or in any
manner to the operation of spirits other than MHe Smith’s own?
That was the broad question; but it was complicated here by a
subsidiary question;—whether, namely, any previous incarnations of
MII6 Smith’s,—other phases of her own spiritual history, now involving
complex relationship with the past—had any part in the crowd of
personalities which seemed struggling to express themselves through
her quite healthy organism.
A detailed survey of the records of MII0 Smith’s phenomena
seemed to show that they were all or almost all explicable by an
unusually complex activity of her subliminal self.
The speaker concluded with a few general reﬂections which this
remarkable case of Professor Flournoy’s, nay, which even some of
Dr. Janet’s morbid cases,—seemed to suggest to the psychologist who
cared to look beyond either the narrowing hospital-walls or the per
plexing séance-room.
“The chief reﬂection,” he said, “is that we are as yet but in a
childish or rudimentary stage of our use of the human brain. That
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. ['JuLY, 1900.
brain is in truth (as some one has said) but ‘a virtual organ ’;—an
organ en vote ofacquisition, which man is slowly learning to use,—but
with very little notion either of how it came to be what it is, or of
what it ultimately may be.
“ No one, indeed, knows how it came to be what it is. No one has
even plausibly explained that great difference between the simian
and the savage organ which seems so incommensurate with any observ
able difference between the hairy chimpanzee and the hairy Aino.
Some naturalists argue that much of the savage’s brain-power must
lie dormant;—must somehow be a mere reserve for the later calls
of a more complex existence. If this be admitted, we must surely
go on to admit that a large proportion of the braIn’s capacity is
dormant still.
“ I do not mean to predict that our race will necessarily include in
the future individual minds more powerful than any minds in the past.
This question ultimately depends upon that unknown factor,—the
nature of the sources from which spiritual life is infused into mortal
organisms. Let us admit that judging by the last two thousand
years we have little ground for conﬁdence in any such advance of the
highest individual level. Let us not be rash enough to prophesy
that there will ever be a sculptor better than Praxiteles, or a lyric
poet better than Pindar. Yet the important fact is that the great
spirits of the past made use only of certain portions of the human
brain which had through some historic cause been the ﬁrst to be
developed. The spirits of Pindar or Praxiteles dwelt, so to say, in the
palace-chambers of their mysterious habitation; they knew nothing of
the foundations on which the City of Mansoul was builded, or of its
treasure-houses in the living rock.
“ Of course Hélene’s intellect, though serviceable enough in common
life, is not of a calibre to confer new knowledge or delight on educated
men; but for I-Iélene’s one-in-a-hundred mind substitute the one-in-a
million mind of Louis Stevenson ;—let him dream—not Héllene’s
insipid tale of “Esenale,’ but ‘Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,’ and one
sees at once the advantage of relegating voluntary ends to automatic
execution,—and so at once saving brain-centres from expensive
friction and getting the needed thing done (like those reaction-time
measurements of Dr. Janet’s during ecstasy), with a verve and a
completeness which conscious effort ﬁnds it hard to rival. May not
that effortless concurrent utilisation of all elements of the personality
hold ultimately somewhat the same relation to our present painful
thought as multiplex telegraphy holds to the old slow and single
transmission along the wire?
Jon, 1900.] General Meeting. 273
“ Let us frankly confess that we cannot in the least tell what the
brain will do till we try. The assumed balance of our faculties and our
environment is altogether chimerical. The environment is unknown
and inﬁnite, and the faculties have simply got to go as far in every
direction as they can. We have attained no position of permanent
stability, and we have nothing to tell us cipriori what will be the next
faculties which our race will evolve. And yet popular science some
times speaks as though nearly everything in human nature had been.
observed already !—as though normality had been deﬁned, aberrations
classiﬁed, a mass of experience acquired which our successors will only
have to work out in detail ! A vain conceit ! a monstrous prematurity!
Rather let us remember that only by an abiding consciousness of our
own inevitable childishness can we prevent those successors from
looking on our religions with pity, and on our science with con
tempt ;—while they analyse with a smile our rudimentary efforts at
self-realisation,—remarking ‘how hard a thing it was to found the
race of man.’ ”
PRoFEssoR BARRETT said he felt it was diﬂicult to discuss the
suggestive paper which they had listened to with so much interest
without a careful perusal of it beforehand. Perhaps it might be
found possible—following the custom of some other scientiﬁc societies
—in the case of a paper being already in type, that a proof of it
should be sent beforehand to any member who asked for it with a
view to joining in the discussion of it at a meeting.
As regards the inﬂuence of suggestion which had been referred to
in the paper, he had frequently noticed how much more potent an
indirect than a direct suggestion was in the whole group of phenomena
which came under the head of human automatism. Here he might
perhaps mention that in a letter which was published in 1875 he had
pointed out that before we could hope to study with advantage the
complex psychical phenomena of “spiritualism,” we must ﬁrst know
more of the part played by suggestion and thought-transference in
these phenomena: for at that time the action of mind upon mind,
independently of the recognised channels of sense, was ridiculed by
scientiﬁc men and not considered by spiritualists. Subsequent ex
perience had, however, shown, as the President has pointed out, the
importance of these factors in a critical study of the various phe
nomena investigated by this Society. Having referred to one or two
other points, Professor Barrett concluded by moving a warm vote of
thanks to the President for his instructive and suggestive paper.
[For some further discussion of this paper, see the “Correspon
dence” below, p. 288.]
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JuL\', 1900.
FOUNDATION OF A PSYCHICAL INSTITUTE IN PARIS.
We desire to call the attention of our readers to an important
scheme which has just been completed for the foundation of an Inter
national Psychical Institute in Paris, the intention of which is to
provide all possible facilities for the study—both experimental and
theoretical—of psychical phenomena. The programme of the Institute,
which we reprint here, is signed by Professor Pierre Janet and an
inﬁuential Comité de Patronage, among whom are to be found men
eminent throughout the civilised world for their services to psychology,
psychical research, and other branches of learning. '
SOCIETE INTERNATIONALE DE L'INSTITUT PSYCHIQUE.
Le siècle qui va ﬁnir a vu toutes les sciences qui étudient le monde
physique faire des progrès considérables, et il est impossible d’énumérer les
bienfaits de toutes sortes dont l’humanité est aujourd’hui redevable aux
découvertes de ces sciences. Mais les sciences qui ont pour objet la pensée
de l’homme, les lois de l’esprit humain, les rapports du physique et du
moral, n’ont suivi que bien lentement la marche rapide des connaissances
qui s'appliquent à. la matière.
Il est certain cependant que les sciences de l’esprit pourraient être aussi
utiles et peut-être plus précieuses encore que les sciences des phénomènes
matériels. Elles pourraient expliquer bien des lois de la société et permettre
peut-être de mieux établir les relations sociales. Elles devraient jouer un
grand rôle dans notre jurisprudence criminelle et préparer peut-être une
véritable prophylaxie du crime. Les études de pédagogie ne seraient qu'une
annexe des recherches psychologiques et celles-ci seules permettraient de
réformer, en connaissance de cause, nos méthodes d’éducation et d’enseigne
ment. Un domaine où les sciences psychologiques plus avancées rendraient
des services incalculables est celui de la médecine mentale. Si l’on en juge
par les progrès que quelques connaissances scientiﬁques relatives aux phéno
mènes du somnambulisme, de la suggestion, de la division de conscience ont
déjà. fait faire à. la thérapeutique de quelques maladies nerveuses. on peut
deviner qu'un grand nombre de névroses, de si tristes et de si terribles mala
dies de l’esprit, ne sont aujourd’hui incurables qu'à. cause de notre ignorance.
Enﬁn, n’est-il pas évident que la science de la pensée est, plus que toute
autre, capable de satisfaire la curiosité inquiète de l’esprit humain? Sans
doute il est peu probable qu'une science puisse jamais nous expliquer
complètement le problème de notre nature et de nos destinées, mais
cependant aucune ne touche d’aussi près à. ces questions insolubles que l’étude
de l’esprit. On en voit facilement la preuve dans l’intérêt passionné qu'ont
suscité certains faits qui sont en réalité des faits psychologiques, tels que les
phénomènes décrits sous le nom de dédoublement de la conscience, de
suggestion mentale, de télépathie, de lucidité, de médiumnité. Ces faits ont
évidemment préoccupé au plus haut point bien des esprits, parce qu'ils
semblèrent se rattacher aux puissances les plus profondes de la pensée. Leur
étude impartiale, quelle que soit la solution à. laquelle elle parvienne,
Jury, 1900.] Foundation of a Psychical Institute in Paris. 275
n’aiderait-elle pas beaucoup à. l’interprétation de la nature humaine ‘.1 Plus
qu'aucune autre science, la psychologie se rapproche des problèmes philo
sophiques et des problèmes religieux, c’est là sans doute ce qui fut la grande
diﬂiculté de son étude, c’est aussi ce qui en augmente l’intérêt.
Bien des eﬂbrts ont été faits, surtout depuis la seconde moitié de ce siècle,
pour aborder des études si intéressantes et si fécondes. Il est incontestable
que, de tous côtés, on a essayé d’appliquer à. la psychologie les méthodes
expérimentales et inductives qui ont amené le merveilleux développement
des sciences physiques. La mesure mathématique a été appliquée à la
psychologie dans les recherches de psycho-physique et de Psychométrie.
Sous l’inﬂuence de méthodes nouvelles, l’unatomie et la physiologie du
système nerveux se sont metamorphosées. L'étude des malades a permis
d’analyser bien des fonctions mentales. Les phénomènes du somnambulisme
naturel et artiﬁciel, ceux de la suggestion, de l’écriture automatique, beaucoup
de délires étranges, ont été soumis à une analyse minutieuse. Bien des cas
singuliers se rapportant aux phénomènes qui ont soulevé le problème de la
suggestion mentale, ont été recueillis avec précision et jusqu'à. un certain
point interprétés.
On est cependent forcé de reconnaître que ces études sont restées sur
beaucoup de points bien incomplètes. Elles sont loin d’avoir donné les
résultats pratiques que l’on pouvait en espérer et n’ont pu trancher d’une
manière sufﬁsamment précise dans un sens ou dans l’autre les problèmes qui
inquiétaient les esprits. Une des raisons qui, en outre de la diff1culté des
recherches, a considérablement retardé le progrès des sciences psychologiques,
c’est que pendant longtemps on n’a pas suﬂisalnment compris leur importance
et leur utilité et qu'elles sont loin d’avoir rencontré partout l’appui et les
ressources dont elles avaient besoin pour se développer. D'innombrables
laboratoires et instituts de toutes sortes étaient ouverts aux savants qui
s'occupaient de physique, de chimie, de sciences naturelles ; les laboratoires
de psychologie très peu nombreux, très pauvres pour la plupart, surtout en
France, ne pouvaient faire que quelques études sur des points très limités.
N’est-il pas possible d’obtenir pour ces sciences si utiles et si passion
nantes un appui du public éclairé, qui n’a jamais été refusé aux recherches
désintéressées? En Amérique particulièrement, de tels appels ont toujours
été bien entendus. Les grandes universités de l’Amérique du Nord ont
pour la plupart été fondées, entretenues et magniﬁquement développées à.
l’aide de dons particuliers. N’avons-nous pas vu l’Université de Chicago,
fondée d’hier a peine, dotée déjà. de plus de 65,000,000 de francs? N’est-ce
pas une femme de grand esprit et de grand cœur qui va consacrer 100,000,000
francs à. la fondation en Californie d’une Université modèle. pour laquelle un
projet grandiose vient d’être établi par un architecte français ? Plus près de
nous, l’Institut Pasteur, l’Institut Solvaz, le Musée social, ne Inontrent-ils
pas la puissance de semblables générosités? Sans ambitionner de telles
libéralités trop au-dessus de nos espérances, ne peut-on pas penser que
beaucoup d’esprits intelligents et curieux des problèmes psychologiques
pourront se trouver dans les dilférents pays du monde pour vouloir collaborer
à. une oeuvre éminemment internationale: le développement des sciences de la
pensée .7
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Resewrch. [Jump 1900.
C’est pourquoi nous avons voulu fonder une société qui aurait pour titre
“ Société Internationale de l'Institut Psi/chique," destinée à. recueillir et à
coordonner toutes les bonnes volontés qui pourraient apporter une
protection ou une aide eﬂicace à. ces études. Cette société réunirait des
dons, des cotisations annuelles, accepterait tous les secours, à. la seule
condition de les employer pour le développement des sciences psychologiques.
Les ressources réunies par cette société seraient employées par le Conseil
Œadministration pour établir un Institut International des Sciences psychiques,
un Institut Psi/chique, véritable centre auquel pourraient s’adresser pour
demander aide et conseil les travailleurs de tous les pays.
Suivant les circonstances et suivant le développement de la Société qui
lui donne naissance, cet Institut aura les divers objets suivants :
(1) Réunir dans une bibliothèque et un musée, tous les livres, travaux,
brochures, appareils et documents de toutes espèces concernant les sciences
psychiques.
(2) Mettre à. la disposition des travailleurs soit par des dons, soit par des
prêts, suivant les circonstances, ces instruments, ces livres, ces documents
nécessaires a leurs études, qui auront été réunis par l’Institut.
(3) Fournir des ressources à. tous les laboratoires, à. tous les chercheurs,
réunis ou isolés, qui pourraient montrer qu’ils ont besoin de cette aide pour
une recherche ou une publication intéressante. Cette œuvre si bien remplie
pour les sciences physiques par la Société pour l’Avancement des Sciences,
devrait être accomplie de même pour les sciences de la pensée.
(4) Provoquer des études et des recherches sur certains faits qui paraîtront
mériter son attention.
(5) Organiser autant que possible une série de cours et Œenseignements
sur les différentes branches des sciences psychiques.
(6) Organiser autant que possible des laboratoires permanents, une
clinique, où seraient effectuées par quelques-uns de ses membres, les
recherches jugées les plus utiles.
(7) Publier des Annales de Flnstitut psychique internatimial de Paris, qui
comprendraient tous les travaux de nature à. contribuer aux progrès de la
science et dans lesquels les membres de l’Institut auraient pris une part.
Les lignes principales de l’organisation ainsi posées ne sont d’ailleurs que
des indications très générales destinées à. être modiﬁées par la Société de
l’Institut Psychique, qui doit être constituée tout d’abord.
.
DR. PIERRE JANET.
Chargé du Cours de Psychologie Experimentale à. la Sorbonne,
Directeur du Laboratoire de Psychologie de la Salpêtrière,
Professor suppléant au Collège de France.
Programme approuvé a l’unanimité et signé par le Comité de
Patronage suivant:
MM. ŒARsoNvAL, Membre de l’Académie des Sciences, Membre de
l’Académie de Médecine de Paris; Comte ETIENNE APRAXINE, Gentil
homme de la Chambre de S. M. l’Empereur, St. Pétersbourg ;ALEXANDRE
AKsAKoFF, Directeur de la Revue Psychische Studien, a Leipzig ; BACLÉ,
JuLY, \900.] Foundation of a Psychical Institute in Paris. 277
Ingénieur; JAMEs MARK BALDWIN, Professeur de Psychologie à.
l’Université de Princeton; DT BARADUC; W. F. BARREËIËT, F.R.S.,
Profr at the Royal College of Science, Dublin; Mgr. BATANDIER, de
Rome; BERGsoN, Professeur de philosophie au Collège de France;
DT BERNHEIM, Professeur à. la faculté de medecine à. Nancy ; S. A. I. le
prince RoLAND BoNAPARTE; E. BoIRAG, Recteur de l’Université de
Grenoble; le prince GIovANNI B. BoRGHÈsE; Pr BoUCHARI), Membre
de l’Académie des Sciences, Membre de l’Académie de Médecine de
Paris; Dr EDMoND BaANLY, Professeur de Physique à. Flnstitut
catholique à. Paris ; Chanoine BRETTEs ; BRUNoT, Maître de Conférences
à- la Sorbonne, Paris ; CAILLETET, Membre de l’Académie des Sciences
de Paris; Capitaine SADI CARNoT, Paris; SIR WILLIAM CRooKEs,
F.R.S., London; Dr DUCLAUX, Membre de I’Académie des Sciences,
Membre de l’Académie de Médecine, Directeur de l’lnstitut Pasteur à.
Paris; Dr DURANT) (DE GRos); DUssAUD, Docteur ès-sciences, Ingénieur
Conseil; EFFRoNT, Directeur de l’Agence Télégraphique du Nord;
LoUIs FEINE, Architecte, Paris ; Dr FERRIER, Professeur de Neurologie
à. l’Université de Londres ; CAMILLE FLAMMARIoN, Astronome, Secrétaire
Général de la Société Astronomique de France; TH. FLoURNoY,
Professeur de Physiologie-Psychologique à. l’Université de Genève;
GARIEL, Membre de l’Académie de Médecine, Professeur à. la Faculté
de Médecine, Paris; GAsC-DESFossEs, Professeur de Philosophie, Paris;
Dr ELMER GATES, Laboratoire Psychologique à. Washington ; PRoFEssoR
JAMEs H. GoRE, Juror in chief and in charge of the International
Congresses for the Commissioner General of the United States to
the Paris Exposition of 1900; Comte ARNAUD DE GRAMoNT, Docteur
ès-sciences; BoDGAN P. HAsDEU, Membre de l’Académie des Sciences,
Professeur à. l’Université de Bukarest; D? HÉRICoURT, Chef du Labora
toire de Physiologie à. l’Ecole de Médecine, Paris ; Professeur GIovANNI
HoFFMANN, Rectore Instituto Orientali di Napoli ; CoNsTANTIN IsTRATI, '
Membre de l’Académie des Sciences. Professeur de Chimie organique à.
l’Université de Bukarest; DY PIERRE JANET, chargé d’un cours de
Psychologie expérimentale à. la Sorbonne, Directeur du Laboratoire de
Psychologie de la Clinique de la Salpêtrière, Professeur suppléant au
Collège de France; Dr PAUL JoIRE, Président de la Société de Psy
chologie Expérimentale à. Lille; Prince BoJIDAR KARAGEoRGEWITCH;
Dr LABoRDE, Membre de l‘Académie de Médecine, Directeur des travaux
pratiques de Physiologie à. l’Eco1e de Médecine de Paris ; Dr LIÉBEAULT,
de Nancy; J. LIEGEoIs, Correspondant de l’Institut, Professeur de
l’Université de Nancy; Dl‘ LLoYIJ-TUCKEY, de Londres; PRoFEssoR
OLIvER J. LoDGE, F.R.S. ; Dr CEsARE LoMBRoso, Professeur de
Psychiatrie à. l’Université de Turin; MAREY, Membre de l’Académie
des Sciences, Membre de l’Académie de Médecine; JEAN MAsCART,
Docteur ès-Sciences, Astronome a l‘Observatoire de Paris; MAXWELL,
Substitut du Procureur Général à. Bordeaux ; D. T. MENDÉLÉIEFF, Pro
fesseur émérite, Directeur de la Chambre Centrale des Poids et Mesures
de St-Pétersbourg; MENDELssoHN, Professeur de Psychologie à. l’Univer
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jun-, moo.
sité de St. Pétersbourg; Dr E. METCH.\'IKoFF, Membre de l’Académie
de Médecine, Chef de service à. l’lnstitut Pasteur; A. MEzIÈREs, membre
de l’Académie Française ; AUcUsrE DE MoRsIER, Ingénieur ; Comte V.
MoURAWEFF-AMoURsKY, attaché militaire à. l’Ambassade de Russie à.
Paris; Professeur MoUToNNIER; OsWALD MURRAY; FREDERIC W. H.
MYERs, President of the Society for Psychical Research, London;
Dr OCHoRoWICz, de Varsowie; S. A. R. le Prince HENRI UORLEANs;
Son Exc. le Prince L. OURoUssoFF, Ambassadeur de Russie à. Paris;
EDMoND PERRIER, Membre de l’Académie des Sciences, Directeur du
Muséum, Paris; PETRovo SoLovovo, Gentilhomme de la Chambre de
S. M. l’Empereur, secrétaire de la chancellerie du Ministère des Affaires
Etrangères de Saint-Pétersbourg; ARTHUR RAFFALovICH, Correspondant
de l’lnstitut, Paris ; P. I. RATCHKoWsKY, Conseiller d’Etat, Paris ; TH.
RIBoT, Membre de l’ACadémie des Sciences morales, Professeur de
Psychologie expérimentale et comparée du Collège de France, Directeur
de “La Revue Philosophique” ; CHARLEs RICHET, Membre de
l’ACadéInie de Médecine, Professeur de Physiologie a la Faculté de
Médecine à. Paris, Directeur de “La Revue Scientiﬁque" ; Colonel A.
DE RoCHAs, de l’Ecole Polytechnique à. Paris; Baronne DE RozEN
KRANTz, Rome; TH. SABACHNIKoFF, Paris; SABATIER, Professeur de
Zoologie et d’Anatomie comparée à. la Faculté des Sciences à. Mont
pellier; Dr VIsANI Scozz1, Florence; Dr Freiherr von SCHRENK-NoTzING,
Munich; EDMoND SCHURÉ; J. W. SHARPE, M.A. ; Professor HENRY
SIDGWICK, Cambridge; Professor JAMEs SULLY, Professor of Philosophy
at University College, London ; A. TARDE, Professeur au Collège de
France ; A. VAN DER NAILLEN, President of the School of Engineering,
San-Francisco; Prince NICoLAs VIAsEMsKY, Maître ès-antropologie,
Secrétaire de I’Ambassade de Russie, Paris; MARQUIs WILFRIED DE
VIRIEU, Paris; YoURIEvITCH, Gentilhomme de la Chambre de S. M.
l’Empereur, attaché à. l’Ambassade de Russie a Paris; Dr YUNG, Pro
fesseur de Zoologie à. l’Université de Genève.
Secrétaires provisoires:
MM. TH. FLoURNoY, Professeur de l’Université de Genève, 9, Florissan,
Genève.
USWALD MURRAY, National Liberal Club, London.
Dr P. VIsANI-SCozzI. Via Cerretani, 3 P. 2° Firenze.
SERGE YoURIÉVITCH, 235, Boulevard Saint-Germain, à Paris.
La Société Internationale de l’Institut Psychique se compose :—
(1) de membres fondateurs qui versent une somme de 10,000f. et
au-dessus ;
(2) de membres donateurs qui versent une somme de 1,000f. et au-dessus
ou un cotisation annuelle de 100f. et au-dessus ;
(3) de membres titulaires qui versent la somme de 250f. ou une cotisation
annuelle de 20f.
All communications are to be addressed to the Secrétaire général
de l’INsTITUT PsYCHIQUE, 19, Rue de l’Université, Paris.
Jun, 1900.] Obituary: Mary H. Kingsley. 279
OBITUARY.
MARY H. KINGSLEY.
The death of Miss Mary Kingsley, the African traveller, has called
forth a wide recognition of her remarkable qualities both of character
and of intellect ;—of her courage, her unselﬁshness, her endurance, and
of the solid services which her collections and her writings have
rendered both to natural science and to the sympathetic compre
hension of the peoples of that Dark Continent where so much of her
energy was spent. Miss Kingsley was not a member of our Society ;
but her interest in primitive beliefs brought her into contact with
one side of our subject; and the striking paper on “The Forms of
Apparitions in West Africa,” which she contributed to Part XXXV.
of our Proceedings, will be fresh in the memory of those who read it,—
and especially of those who heard it. I believe that Miss Kingsley
looked quite simply and naturally at home among the “squattering
crocodiles,” and the “ soughing hippos,” and the “miscellaneous
devils” of the Ourounougou Swamp, “ which haunts me and calls me,”
she said, “more than any other thing I have ever seen.”
But personally I met her—and preferred to meet her !—amid less
remarkable scenes ;—sceneswhere her slender modest ﬁgure,—her gentle
humorous face,—her quiet, old-fashioned dress,-all suggested a maiden
lady from Cwmford ,-———while, nevertheless, every now and then some
thing in the tone of her words or the look of her eye ﬂashed through
me the incongruous thought—“ What a mate for a hero ! ”
I should call Mary Kingsley and her uncle Charles the youngest
eminent persons whom I have ever met. Charles Kingsley’s muscular
Christianity struck Inc as a delightful kind of fourth-form swagger ;—
the small boy’s naif exultation in the glory of his great school. He
seemed to look boisterously out over human history with shouts of
“Well done, our side!” and he would talk of Christian saints and
heroes in the half awe-struck, half familiar tone in which the schoolboy
talks of “fellows in our Eleven.” And Mary Kingsley, on her part,
showed already, as quite a little girl, exactly the qualities which after
wards carried her so far ;—playing at adventures with an inﬁnite
power of make-believe ;—laying mines in the back garden, or super
intending her favourite ﬁghting cocks, whom she did not allow to
ﬁght ;—studying keenly in the midst of onerous domestic duties all
sorts of out-of-the-way things ;—and sallying forth alone into the
world when her turn came, with a mind bent upon fetish-worship
and fresh-water ﬁshes, but a heart liable to be diverted from any
study by the sight of the unsuccoured woes of men.
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jum, 1900.
Here was a soul which showed that absolute selﬂessness, unalter
able serenity, indomitable daring, are no monopoly of apostle, or
crusader, or saint. Here was a delicate lady, with no mission and no
pretensions, who would simply go anywhere and do anything from
sheer scientiﬁc ardour and human sympathy.
Her earthly end beﬁtted her career : going out to Africa to collect
her fresh-water ﬁshes, and protesting that she did not know how to
nurse, and would not think of nursing anybody,—she was drawn into
that service by the desperate need of our wounded enemies ;—and
caught the terrible fever ; and proceeded to the death-agony with her
wonted bonhomie.
Death, as death, is surely the merest bugbear;'—the young child
made portentous by ghastly trappings, as in Gareth and Lynette. If
Mary Kingsley, by sheer native courage, met the last fate with steady
soul, it would ill become those who believe that they have proof of
human survival to weep and mourn for'her now. Rather is one
disposed to wave the hand to her cheerily across the narrowing
abyss ;—with the great words of Rabbi Ben Ezra sounding in the
deep of the heart—
And I shall thereupon
Take rest, ere I be gone
Once more on my adventure brave and new ;—
Fearless and unperplexed,
When I wage battle next,
What weapons to select, what armour to indue.
F. W. H. M.
CASES.
M. Aut. 100.
The following case was sent to us a short time ago by Dr. H. D.
R. Kingston, of Macra, Eltham, Kent, an Associate of the Society,
with the explanation that he had intended to send the papers at the
time he received them, but they had accidentally been mislaid, and
only quite lately come to light. Of the narrator, Mr. F. Hodgson,
he says :—
Mr. F. Hodgson was then (1889) a photographer at Wynberg. He had
at one time been employed as photographer to the Challenger expedition
during part of the voyage, and he had also gone in the same capacity with
Mr. Palgrave on a Commission to Great Namaqualand and to Damaraland.
I have copies of many of the photographs he then took, the negatives of
which are the property of the Colonial Government. I found him a careful
and competent man in developmg some scientiﬁc photographs of my own,
JuLY, 1900.] Cases. 281
and also particularly intelligent, and I should say perfectly trustworthy as a
witness. You will see that he has made up the case with some care.
HENRY D. R. KINGsToN, M.D.
The narrative was enclosed in a letter to Dr. Kingston, dated
Wynberg, July, 1890, and is as follows :
Statement re curious manifestations in house of Mrs. Kamp, beginning on
night of June 14th, and still continuing, though greatly diminished in power.
On Saturday night, June 14th, 1890, Alida Sophia Kamp, widow,
residing in Wolfe Street, Wynberg, her daughter, Sophia Alida Kamp, and
Catherine Mahoney, who resides in the same house, retired to rest at a little
before eleven p.m., and, from the time of retiring to rest until that of
rising, were unable to sleep on account of strange and unearthly noises, for
which they could ﬁnd no explanation, although they instituted a rigorous
search for the cause. The noises, as they described them to me next morn
ing, resembled the dragging about of chairs in their bedrooms and the
dragging about of heavy boxes over an uneven ﬂoor in the loft over their
heads. This loft, which I know, having been in it, contains absolutely
nothing which could account for the noises, even had there been any one
upstairs to drag anything it contained about, but owing to the way in which
this loft is fastened up, it would have been quite impossible for any one to
enter it. I could not on the Sunday morning, from their description of
what they had heard, ﬁnd any rational solution of the mystery, and, at their
request, consented to occupy one of the bedrooms that night (Smwlay, 15th).
Before retiring, however, I suggested that we should hold a séance in
the room in which I was about to sleep. This was agreed to, and we formed
a circle consisting of Christian Kamp (son of Alida Sophia Kamp), Alida
Sophia Kamp, Catherine Mahoney, and myself, and Janet Kamp, wife of
Christian Kamp (seating ourselves around a small table). The table very
shortly showed an inclination to move about, and in fact did sway about
considerably, but this was all we could obtain, so we dropped the sitting.
We, however, decided after deliberation to hold a séance in the adjoin
ing bedroom, but this time Catherine Mahoney declined to sit, so that
we had only [four] out of the former [ﬁve] sitters. The results were, how
ever, better, as we soon had distinct raps and at once asked the communi
cating inﬂuence to rap three times if it could communicate its name to us if
we established an easy code. The three raps came at once, and I (who
acted as conductor) then asked it to give one mp at each letter forming its
name on my going audibly through the alphabet. The result was
L E W I S , which caused Mrs. A. S. Kamp to think it was her departed
husband, whose name had been Louis. This hypothesis, however, I was not
inclined to accept, as I thought her husband, if present, would not have
wrongly spelt his name. We, however, could not get the inﬂuence to
change his orthography, so we had to proceed to ask if it would spell out
any message by the same code, to which three raps responded, and we again
proceeded. The result was T O W A R N, at which stage of the pro
ceedings Mrs. Kamp showed signs of great uneasiness, thinking the message
282 Jowrnat of Society for Psycldcal Reseamclu [Juu,1900.
was a warning of her coming death, and being still persuaded that her late
husband was communicating. As I did not know positively to the contrary
and was afraid some unpleasant communication was about to be given, we
dropped the séance, I intending to resume it at some future time with sitters
not related to the family.
Shortly after we all retired to our beds, and I kept a candle burning in
my room until past midnight, as I had an interesting novel to read. I then
blew it out and was asleep in a few minutes. Shortly after two a.m.
(Monday) I was awakened by the sound of a chair being dragged over the
ﬂoor of the room in which I slept, followed almost immediately by a sound
as of some very heavy body being dragged about in a room overhead (a very
loud noise which would have awakened anybody). Miss Kamp then called
out from the adjoining room, which was only divided from mine by awooden
partition, “ Do you hear the noise? What can it be ? ” Just after she had
spoken I heard a sound like a half full box of matches falling on the ﬂoor.
I decided it was about time to get up and investigate, so sprung out of bed
and felt for the matchbox in the candlestick and [found] it was not there.
I had carefully placed it there on going to bed and was at a loss to account
for its disappearance. I had some others, however, in the pocket of my
waistcoat, and knowing where I had hung this garment, I went to it and
taking the matches out of the pocket, struck a light and lighted the candle.
I then found the other box of matches lying on the ﬂoor about two feet
from the candlestick. It seemed to me also that a chair in the room
occupied a somewhat different position to what it had done when I fell
asleep, but of this I could not be sure; but, to be sure whether it moved
again, I placed some empty scent bottles, which I found on a shelf, one
against each leg of the chair. I then went to sleep again and on again
waking, found the chair had been moved quite four inches to the N. W., as
all the legs were away from the bottles I had placed against them. Of
course, as regards the falling of the matchbox and the actual change of
position of the chair, I can only give you my unsupported testimony, but
those who slept in the next room will be able to testify to having heard the
apparent moving of the chair in my room before they heard me jump up to
investigate. This occurred on Sunday night, June 15th.
Now comes the strangest part of the affair. Up to this time none of us
could make out why any one of the name of Lewis should disturb our rest,
as none of us were or had been intimately acquainted with any one of that
name, unless we were prepared to accept the very hypothetical idea that it
was the late Mr. Kamp, who had forgotten how to spell his name properly
(a theory which would not have said much for the educational establish
ments of the shadowy land).
0n Monday morning, June 16th, I got my copy of the Cape Times as
usual, and, among other items of news found an account of the death of a
man, NAME UNKNoWN, who had been killed by an engine, on the night of the
14th, near Woodstock, at about 8.45 p.m. None of us at the time 1n
any way connected this with the noises which had disturbed us, as there
was no apparent connection.
Jum‘, 1900.] Cctses. ‘Z83
In Tuesday’s issue of the same paper there was the account of the inquest
on this man (still name 1mknoirn). On Tuesday evening I was sitting in
Mrs. Kamp’s shop, when a coloured woman came in and in the course of
conversation said, “ Did Mrs. Kamp hear of the man that was killed on the
railway on Saturday night ? ” “Yes ! ” said Mrs. Kamp, “I see they don’t
know who he was.” “ Oh, yes ! ” said the coloured woman, “ his name is
Jim Lewis. I know him, because he lived with my sister.” This set us all
on a quite new track, and we began to wonder what connection there might
be between the events. In favour thereof the facts were these :—
1. This man had been killed at 8.45 p.m. on the night of the 14th.
2. Mrs. Kamp did not close her shop till ten that night, and retired to
rest about eleven, and from that hour the noises commenced.
3. None of us heard of the accident until we read of it on the 16th.
4. Never until the night of the 14th had any nocturnal disturbances
occurred In the house.
5. The disturbing spirit on the evening of the 15th gave the name of Lewis.
I should have mentioned perhaps that on Tuesday night, 17th inst., we
held another séance, at which Christian Kamp, Mr. Hay, and myself sat.
On this night also we got the name of Lewis spelt out, and the message,
“ I am unhappy because they do not know who I am.”
further, he stated that he was the spirit of the man Lewis killed on the
railway. At the time I did not attach much importance to this séance, as
we got scarcely anything fresh, but it is as well to mention it.
Thursday’s (19th) issue of Cape Times contained the completion of the
inquest on this man, and stated that his name was RICHARD YoUNG. Mrs.
Kamp then had another interview with the woman (his sister-in-law) who
had told her (Mrs. Kamp) previously that the man’s name was Jim Lewis,
and asked her why she had said his name was Lewis, when it turned out his
name was Young. On this the woman got quite indignant, and declared
positively that his name was Jim Lewis, no matter what name the paper might
give him ; that she had known him a long time, as he was her brother-in-law.
I am ﬁnishing this on July 2-Lth, 1890, and the nocturnal disturbances
still continue in the house of Mrs. Kamp, and no amount of investigation
can assign any but a spiritual origin to them.
We, the undersigned, having read the above, declare it to be a true
account of the occurrences therein described.
FREDERICK HooosoN.
ScPHm AnnA KAMY.
ALIDA SoPHIA KAMP.
KATE MAHoNEY.
We, the undersigned, declare that we sat at a séance in the house of Mrs.
Kamp (Alida Sophia Kamp) on the night of June 15th, 1890, and that we
heard raps which spelt out the name of Lewis and the words T O W A R N .
F. Hone'soN.
ALIDA SoPHm KAMP.
C. F. KAMP.
J. S. KAMP.
On being interrogated _
28$ J0'u/rna.t of Society for Psych/teat Reseu/rch. [Jcug 1900.
We, the undersigned, sat at a séance in the house of Mrs. Kamp (Alida
Sophia Kamp) on the night of Tuesday (June 17th), and the name of
Lewis was then spelt out by raps, and the message, “ I am unhappy because
they don’t know who I am," and the communicating inﬂuence further stated
that he had been killed by an engine on the night of the 14th.
FREDERICK HonGsoN.
C. F. KAMP.
We, the undersigned, sat at a séance on the night of Wednesday, June
18th, in the house of Alida Sophia Kamp, and the communicating inﬂuence
rapped out the name of Lewis, and stated that it was the spirit of a man
of that name who had been killed by an engine on the night of June 14th.
FREDERICK HonGsoN.
J. P. ORuss.
C. A. LIETHAR.
C. F. KAMP.
M. Ant. 101.
The following account is translated and abridged from the Vessillo
Spiritista for June, 1900, where it appeared under the title of “A
Good Proof of Spirit Identity.”
On the evening of January 12th, 1900, during the usual weekly sitting,
in the presence of Sig. G. V. de Simone, his wife and two young daughters,
C. Orsini and the present writer, a good proof of identity which had been
asked for was received from the spirit of Arturo de Capua. It had been
asked for under conditions which excluded every possibility of voluntary
or involuntary, conscious or unconscious suggestion, as it was impossible
that what was unknown and always had been unknown to all present should
be suggested, and this makes it of more value than a volunteered proof,
Which might have been prepared beforehand by the medium.
This spirit of Arturo has given in many sittings many moral and intel
lectual proofs of his personality which were recognised by his mother and
brother Avo. G-. de Capua. The Neapolitan verses which he improvised
(and I say improvised, because the suggestion was made at the moment),
written with extreme rapidity through the medium Signorina 0. de S.,
resemble closely in form and matter those written by him during his life on
earth.
Proofs of this sort, however, although perhaps convincing to those
present, are of little value to strangers, who want records of facts which
exclude any such hypothesis as telepathy or self-suggestion on the part of
the medium. Therefore on this evening I asked the spirit of Arturo if he
had any precise recollections of his earthly existence and if he could give
me some fact, of his own choice.
He answered me by automatic writing thus :—“ My dear Oavalli, I have
it is true, advanced; but I recognise you, in a state of calm which I have
acquired and which formerly I did not possess; as for my remembrances, know
JCLY, 1900.] Cases. 285
that not only does it give me great fatigue to recall them. but it also causes
me great pain ; and it is for this reason that I rarely seek to revive them.”
Then I replied that I did not wish to cause him pain, and would content
myself with asking him to give the names he remembered of his dearest
friends.
None of those present had known Arturo when living, much less the
pe1sons or names of persons with whom he was acquainted. So this would
be a good proof. The spirit willingly assented. After a short time he wrote
with his accustomed rapidity :—“Emilia, Paolo, Elena, Annina, and the
lady who gave me the cigarette and whose name I cannot recall. Those are
the people of whom I was very fond, after my intimate friends, and who are
still dear to me.” “So far good, but the best part is still wanting,”—I
observed,-—-“the surnames. Do you remember them?” “Yes.” “Can
you and will you give them?” “ I cannot.” “ At least tell me if the four
names have different surnames.” He answered that the two ﬁrst had
different surnames, and the two last the same. Immediately afterwards he
expressed a desire to write again and wrote, “I add to these Carlo Ricci,
whom I still love so much; do not be so exacting, do you understand?"
The spirit insisted that all this was correct and expressed anger when I
doubted it.
As soon as I saw his brother, Guglielmo, I showed him the communica
tions. They were all absolutely correct, the names given, and the lady of
the cigarette, but Carlo Ricci struck him above everything ! “ He was
Arturo’s dearest friend,” his brother told me.
Although older than Arturo, Carlo Ricci and his father had always had
the greatest consideration for him, and Arturo was devoted to them both and
preferred their company to any other.
Arturo’s mother, whom I also questioned, conﬁrmed everything that her
son Guglielmo had said.
But to return to the communication given by the spirit of Arturo on the
evening of the l2th ;—we can add another valuable particular. He gave the
names of four persons, as we have said ; among these was one Paolo. When
asked about him at a following sitting he answered by automatic writing :
“ Paolo is the father of the lovely Nanninella.” This was correct, and
when asked for some further particulars of the lady who gave him the
cigarettes, —amongst other things, whether there were dear friends of the
lady's living in the same place with her,—he answered : “ The lady has dear
friends near her and they are of my family.” Both these facts had been
absolutely correct at the time of his death. But the interesting point is
this,—that when asked to name friends living in the same place as the lady,
he named his family. Those present at the sitting and all who knew
Arturo’s family, knew that for some months they had changed their home.
The spirit, however, apparently judging from the past, did not think of
their present changed habitation and concluded that they were still living
near the lady. V C
. AvALLI.
Naples, January 20th.
286 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [-Tum, 1900.
As witness of the facts narrated above, I aﬂirm that they are per
fectly true. C_ ORsINL
Similar testimonies are given by—
VINCENzo DE SIMoNE and
GUGLIELMo DE CAPUA.
MRS. PIPER’S PRESENT TRANCE CONDITION.
The following account of the present conditions of Mrs. Piper’s
trance was addressed by Dr. Hodgson to Dr. G. Stanley Hall, Editor
of The American Journal of Psychology, and appeared in that
periodical for April, 1900. We reprint it here for our own readers,
partly on account of its intrinsic interest, and partly because it serves
to explain why Dr. Hodgson has not thought it desirable at present
to prepare another Report on the subject, since that published by him
in February, 1898.
The following letter, written without thought of publication, is printed
by the author’s permission. It was the second addressed to the editor in
response to a second urgent letter from him requesting a sitting with Mrs.
Piper. It is printed here with the thought that it may interest and inform
other psychologists who may seek interviews.
Boston, Mass., February 24th, 1900.
DEAR DR. HALL, —In reply to your further letter of February 23rd, I fear
that my previous letter, perhaps owing to its brevity, did not suﬂiciently
explain the situation as regards Mrs. Piper. I shall describe it in further
detail as it purports to be from the point of view of the communicators
through Mrs. Piper’s trance.
In the attempt to get proof of personal identity from the Rev. W.
Stainton Moses, who died in 1893, I came into relation with certain
intelligences that claimed to have been the chief spirit instructors of
Stainton Moses for some years during his life time, and whom he called by
the names Imperator, Doctor, Rector, etc. Imperator was alleged to be the
leader and general supervisor in connection with the supernormal experi
ences of Stainton Moses, accounts of which will be found in the Proceedings
S.P.R., Parts XXV. and XXVII. Imperator, communicating through
Mrs. Piper’s trance, very soon claimed and assumed the supervision of the
trances. I deﬁnitely agreed to this supervision. For a number of years
prior to this time I practically made such arrangements as I pleased as
regards the introduction of fresh persons to sittings with Mrs. Piper.
Imperator stated that it was impossible that the best work could be achieved
from their side under such conditions, that Mrs. Piper’s organism regarded
as a machine had been “ battered and worn,” that it needed much repairing,
that the utmost care must be taken as regards the persons introduced on the
earthly side, and the persons allowed to use the machine from the so-called
JuLY, 1900.] Mrs. Pz'per’s present Townce Condition. 287
spirit side. For the purpose of securing proper conditions, Imperator
claimed that they on their side could alone decide what persons should be
allowed to communicate, as they alone could determine what conditions
might be beneﬁcial to, and what injurious to the machine. General
experimenting by persons on this side was prohibited. Opportunities
have been given for the introduction of fresh persons to the trance. These,
however, have been few in number. The introduction of fresh persons at
the present time has been absolutely prohibited. Imperator has stated
that the conditions are such that it would interfere with the work which
they have to do in improving the machine and in other matters if fresh
sitters were now introduced. All this has been explicitly laid down without
any doubt, and I am bound by my agreement.
This Imperator régime began at the latter part of January. 1897, and I
refer you to section 7 of my report in Part XXXIII. of our Proceedings,
entitled “ Recent Changes in Mrs. Piper’s Trance,” pp. 407-12.
During my year’s absence in England, from September, 1897, to
September, 1898, various fresh persons were allowed to have sittings
besides a group of persons who were previously familiar with Mrs. Piper’s
trance. Later on, however, after my return here, a much closer restriction
was exercised by Imperator. Only about half a dozen fresh persons were
allowed to go at all during last season, and at the present time no fresh
persons are allowed to be introduced.
I have had, I think, hundreds of applicants for sittings during the past
year. I have had four new applications besides your own this week.
Several persons have had the opportunity of having sittings about once a
fortnight, and Mrs. Piper goes into trance now usually only three times a
week. It is probable that later on even this small group of persons will
be restricted.
Brieﬂy, once more then, the situation is that the matter at present is out
of my direct control. I have agreed, so to speak, to let Imperator manage
the machine. Absolutely explicit instructions have been laid down by
Imperator that no persons shall be admitted to the sittings except as
appointed by him. It is not likely that any fresh persons will be allowed to
have sittings in the future at any time, except such as are in special grief for
the recent loss of near friends or relatives.
As to the general wisdom of this management by Imperator, I have
myself personally no doubt. It would, however, take me too long to explain
my view of the situation at length in a letter. I refer you again to section 7
of my report in Part XXXIII. for some suggestions in this direction, which
I expect to work out more fully in later reports.
From my own point of view, Mrs. Piper’s organism as a medium of
communication from the other side to this represents an extremely delicate
machine, which is likely to get out of order unless the utmost care is taken
as regards the conditions. This is not realised by the ordinary person ; and
yet we know well that even in cases which are probably enormously less
complex, absolute exclusion is necessary. There are, e.g., machines used in
physical experiments which are isolated in such a way that observers are not
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jcm’. 1900.
permitted to even enter the room in which the machine is placed. And yet
persons who are completely ignorant of the conditions, both general and
special, under which the communications through Mrs. Piper come, actually
feel aggrieved that they cannot in succession try their apprentice hands and
the apprentice hands of their spirit friends at the working of such a com
plicated and delicate machine as Mrs. Piper’s organism.—Yours sincerely,
R. HonosoN.
CORRE SPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions ea;pressed by Correspondents.]
The following letter has been received from an Associate of the
Society, Miss H. A. Dallas, in reference to the paper read at the
General Meeting on June 22nd and reported above.
PsEuDo-PosSESsIoN.
(To the Editor of the JoURNAL oF THE SoCIETY Foe PsYCHICAL REsEARCH.)
No one who listened carefully to Mr. Myers’s paper on “Pseudo
Possession,” and who has given thought to it since, can have failed to be
impressed by a sense of its value, and its profound suggestiveness and
signiﬁcance. There is one question which arose out of it and which I
should like to have asked, but with so many present whose ideas were so
well worth hearing, one grudged to occupy time with a question of more
elementary character. Perhaps I may be allowed to state it in the pages of
the Journal, in the hope of eliciting some reply.
On the hypothesis that many forms of automatism claiming spiritistic
origin (including M\\e Smith’s) emanate from the subliminal consciousness,
we ﬁnd ourselves confronted by an unexplained anomaly. Mr. Myers’s
remarks lead us to the conclusion (which we know is amply justiﬁed by
evidence) that the mediumistic faculty is a healthy faculty of high order;
and that the subliminal self is in contact with a wider ﬁeld of knowledge
than is the supraliminal ; that it seems to be capable of forming clearer and
correcter judgments than does the latter; so much is this the case that I
believe medical diagnoses and prescriptions given in trance have been
accepted and found correct.
But if I understand our President aright, he also attributes to this
subliminal self the statements concerning the Martian language, concerning
previous incarnations as Marie Antoinette, etc., and also presumably, the
assertions so generally made in automatic script claiming that it origmates
with discarnate entities. Are we then to believe that the subliminal self is
both wiser and more foolish, truer and more false, more understanding and
more ignorant, more reliable and more untrustworthy than the normal self ?
The mere statement of the question turns one mentally a little giddy, so that
one feels in danger of losing one’s bearings, and not knowing which way one
is facing ; but that may be due to weakness of head.
The spirit hypothesis offers diﬂiculties too, but not quite of this bewilder
ing nature. On the spirit hypothesis we may presumably regard the
Jum, 1900.] Correspondence. 289
medium’s organism as comparable to a piano at the disposal of any performer
who can unlock and manipulate it. I say unlock and manipulate, because
the organism is by no means free to all comers, and the limitations which
restrict its use are probably of more than one kind.
If the medium’s organism is thus, within certain limits, freely accessible,
there would be nothing surprising in the fact that the operations of the
control should at one time result in messages above the normal capacities
and moral character of the medium, and at another in messages below both.
Secret aspirations, lofty ambitions and admirations would give access to
spirits of superior quality, and latent weaknesses might render him acces
sible to the inﬂuence and suggestions of those of inferior attainments,
mental and moral.
The advantage of this hypothesis is that it is simple (too simple, some
may think) and that it presents no inexplicable anomalies. What explana
tion can be offered of the seeming anomaly which confronts us with the
other hypothesis? Perhaps it exists only in seeming and may be cleared
by a few words. H A DALLAs
[In reply to the above, Mr. Myers writes :—]
THE RANGE oF THE SUBLIMINAL.
The difﬁculty which Miss Dallas’s letter points out is a very real one;
and although her questions can, I think, be in some measure answered, the
answer cannot be as short or as simple as I could wish.
I must begin by pointing out that the distinction between supraliminal
and sublimiIial,-—between intra-marginal and extra- marginal ;—in short
between the thoughts and sensations which fall within our ordinary waking
consciousness and those which ﬁnd place beneath or outside it,—cannot
possibly be a distinction at once applicable to practical ends ;—as though
(for instance) one were able to say at once that the subliminal idea or
impulse was always wiser than the supraliminal. On the contrary, the basis
of the distinction is a purely psychological one: it is founded on the attempt
to analyse the relation of one chain of memory to another chain of memory,
of one type to another type of human perception and faculty. Our simplest
observation indeed must be that that which extends beneath the threshold,
beyond the margin of a ﬁeld of consciousness specialised for our ordinary
needs, will probably be both more extensive and more miscellaneous than
that which is contained within those limits. The spectrum of our subliminal
mentation, (to recur to an old metaphor,) is more extended than the
spectrum of our supraliminal. At one end of the scale we ﬁnd dreams,—a
normal subliminal product, but of less practical value than any form of sane
supraliminal thought. At the other end of the scale we ﬁnd that the rarest,
most precious knowledge comes to us from outside the ordinary ﬁeld,—
through the eminently subliminal processes of telepathy, telaesthesia, ecstasy.
And between these two extremes lie many subliminal products, varying in
value according to the dignity and trustworthiness of the subliminal menta
tion concerned.
290_ Journal of Society for Psychical Resea/rch. [Jun, 1900.
This last phrase,—inevitably obscure,—may be illustrated by reference
to that hierarchical arrangement of supraliminal action and perception
which Dr. Hughlings Jackson has so used as to clear up much previous
confusion of thought. Following him, we now speak of highest-level nerve
centres, governing our highest, most complex, thought and will ; of middle
level centres, governing movements of voluntary muscles, and the like; and
of lowest-level centres (which from my point of view are purely subliminal),
governing those automatic processes, as respiration and circulation, which
are independent of conscious rule, but necessary to the maintenance of life.
We can roughly judge from the nature of any observed action whether the
highest-level centres are directing it, or whether they are for the time
inhibited, so that middle-level centres operate uncontrolled.
Thus ordinary speech and writing are ruled by highest-level centres.
But when an epileptic discharge of nervous energy has exhausted the
highest-level centres, we see the middle-level centres operating unchecked,
and producing the convulsive movements of arms and legs in the “ ﬁt.” As
these centres in their turn become exhausted, the patient is left to the
guidance of lowest-level centres alone ;—that is to say, he becomes comatose,
though he continues to breathe as regularly as usual.
Now this series of phenomena,—descending in coherence and co-ordina
tion from an active consensus of the whole organism to a mere automatic
maintenance of its most stably organised processes,—may be pretty closely
paralleled by the series of subliminal phenomena also.
Sometimes we seem to see our subliminal perceptions and faculties acting
truly in unity, truly as a Self ;—coordinated into some harmonious “inspira
tion of genius,” or some profound and reasonable hypnotic self-reformation,
or some far-reaching supernormal achievement of clairvoyant vision or of
self-projection into a spiritual world. Whatever of subliminal personality
is thus acting corresponds with the highest-level centres of supraliminal life.
At such moments the subliminal represents (as I believe) most nearly what
will become the surviving Self.
But it seems that this degree of clarity, of integration, cannot be long
preserved. Much oftener we ﬁnd the subliminal perceptions and faculties
acting in less co-ordinated, less coherent ways. We have products which,
while containing traces of some faculty beyond our common scope, involve,
nevertheless, something as random and meaningless as the discharge of the
uncontrolled middle-level centres of arms and legs in the epileptic ﬁt. We
get, in short, a series of phenomena which the term dream-like seems best to
describe.
In the realm of genius,—of uprushes of thought and feeling fused
beneath the conscious threshold into artistic shape,—we get no longer
master-pieces but half-insanities,~not the Sistine Madonna but Wiertz's
Vision of the Guillotined Head ;—not Kubla Khan, but the disordered
opium dream. Throughout all the work of William Blake (I should say) we
see the subliminal self ﬂashing for moments into unity, then smouldering
again in a lurid and scattered glow.
In the realm of hypnotism, again, we sink from the reasonable self
suggestion to the “platform-experiment,”—the smelling of ammonia, the
JuLY, 1900.] Correspondence. 291
eating of tallow-candles ;—all the tricks which show a profound control, but
not a wise control, over the arcana of organic life. I speak, of course, of the
subject’s own control over his organism; for in the last resort it is he and
not his hypnotiser who really exercises that directive power. And I com
pare these tricks of middle-level subliminal centres to the powerful yet
irrational control which the middle-level centres ruling the epileptic’s arms
and legs exercise over his muscles in the violence of the epileptic attack.
And so again with the automatisms which are, one may say, the subliminal
self ’s peculiar province. Automatic script, for instance, may represent
highest-level subliminal centres, even when no extraneous spirit, but the
automatist’s own mind alone, is concerned. It will then give us true tele
pathic messages, or perhaps messages of high moral import, surpassing the
automatist’s conscious powers. But much oftener the automatic script is
regulated by what I have called middle-level subliminal centres only ;—and
then, though we may have scraps of supernormal intelligence, we have con
fusion and incoherence as well. We have the falsity which the disgusted
automatist is sometimes fain to ascribe to a devil ;—though it is in reality not
a devil, but a dream.
And hence again, just as the epileptic sinks lower and lower in the ﬁt,—
from the incoordinated movements of the limbs down to the mere stertorous
breathing of coma,—so do these incoherent automatisms sink down at last
through mere fragmentary dreams, or vague impersonal bewilderment, into
the minimum psychical concomitant, whatever that be, which must co-exist
with brain-circulation.
Such is the apparent parallelism ; but of course no knowledge of a
hierarchy of the familiar forms of nervous action can really explain to us the
mysterious ﬂuctuations of subliminal power. When we speak of the highest
level and other centres which govern our supraliminal being, and which are
ﬁtted to direct this planetary life in a material world,—we can to some
extent point out actual brain-centres whose action enables us to meet those
needs. What are the needs of our cosmic life we do not know ; nor can we
indicate any point in our organism (as in the “solar plexus,” or the like),
which is adapted to meet them. We cannot even either aﬂirm or deny that
such spiritual life as we maintain while incarnated in this material envelope
involves any physical concomitants at all.
For my part, I feel forced to fall back upon the old-world conception of
a soul which exercises an imperfect and ﬂuctuating control over the organ
ism ; and exercises that control, I would add, along two main channels, only
partly coincident ;—that of ordinary consciousness, adapted to the main
tenance and guidance of earth-life; and that of subliminal consciousness,
adapted to the maintenance of our larger spiritual life during our conﬁne
ment in the ﬂesh.
We men, therefore, clausi tenebris et carcere coeco, can sometimes widen,
as we must sometimes narrow, our outlook on the reality of things. In
mania or epilepsy we lose control even of those highest-level supraliminal
centres on which our rational earth-life depends. But through automatism
and in trance and allied states we draw into supraliminal life some rivulet
292 Journal of Society for Peychz'cul Re.»-earcl1.. [Jur1, 190».
T.=?_,,.._~, . ._
from the undercurrent stream. If the subliminal centres which we thus
impress into our waking service correspond to the middle-level only, they
may bring to us merely error and confusion; if they correspond to the
highest-level, they may introduce us to previously unimagined truth.
And ﬁnally, though this be explaining obscumm per obscm'ius,—I think
that we can trace the same ﬂuctuation in a spirit’s control of an organism
when that spirit is no longer that organism’s habitual denizen, but an invader
from without. Observing the trances of Mrs. Piper or of Mrs. Thompson
(of which latter lady I hope shortly to offer some account to our Society), I
seem sometimes to see highest-level centres kept in operation by a clear
controlling power. Sometimes that control weakens, and one must watch
the spiritual grasp slipping downwards to middle-level centres alone. Then
comes the dream-like incoherence of speech, the inchoate or meaningless
gesture. When “ Phinuit,” or whoever the “ control" may be, sinks into
nonsense; when the sensitive's own ideas interfere with the utterance; when
the inspired vision or message degener-ates into grotesque triviality ;—in
all such cases we are experiencing the operation of middle-level subliminal
centres ;—whether those centres be set in motion by our own or by some
extraneous spirit.
From all this it follows that there is and can be no infallible criterion by
which we can guess what intimations are wisest, what internal or external
promptings we had best obey. Nay, we cannot even feel sure that there
exists only one true solution of any complex problem of our life. We do
not know whether all even of our sanest and clearest impulses are directed
towards the same end. The objects of the subliminal may legitimately
dilfer from the objects of the supraliminal self. I am not here speaking of
the two conﬂicting wills in man, ——the one making for immediate pleasure,
the other for a more distant and truer good. I say that the intimate dissi
dence may be on a higher level still. Man is even now living in two worlds;
and who shall atlirm that either his supraliminal or his subliminal intelli
gence can always reconcile the earthly with the spiritual ideal? He must
choose as best he may among his own essential elements; sometimes,
perhaps, he must obey a guidance which leads him he knows not whither.
Maior agit dens, atqne opera in maiora remittit. F‘ W. H‘ M.
THE FOURTH INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF
PSYCHOLOGY.
As announced in the Journal for June, the Fourth International
Congress of Psychology is to be held in Paris, August 20th to 25th,
under the presidency of PaoFsssoR TH. RIBoT.
PRoFEssoR PIERRE JANET writes to us that he will be very glad
to furnish information about the Congress to any of our members or
associates who may wish for it. Applications for membership of the
Congress should also be addressed to him at
21, Rue Barbet de Jouy, Paris.
No. GLXXII.—VoL IX. OCToBER, 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHICAL RESEARCH.
®bituarxg.
PROFESSOR HENRY SIDGWICK.
Henry Sidgwick, born May 31st, 1838, died August
28th, 1900 ; Knightbridge Professor of Moral Philosophy
in the University of Cambridge; President of the Society
for Psychical Research, 1882—1884, and l888—l892.
The next Part of the Proceedings will consist of a com
memorative address which the Council have invited the
President, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, to deliver on October 29th.
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Member and Associates .. .. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. 293
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 293
General Meeting 294
The International Psychological Institute at the InternatI-onallllongress oI.Psyc.liol0gy:
ByOswa1d.Murray . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 296
Cases .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 298
NEW MEMBER AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of ll./[embers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
MCLEAN, MRs., Hyde Park-court, Albert-gate, London, S.'W.
Perdicaris, Ion, El Minzah, Tangier, Morocco, North Africa.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
CLARKE, MRs. ALICE J., 506, North 7th-street, Vincennes, Ind.
EMERsoN, C. W., Emerson College of Oratory, Boston, Mass.
JoNEs, FRANCIs R., 27, State-street, Boston, Mass.
TowRR, MIss ELLEN M., Lexington, Mass.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the Rooms of the Society, 19, Buckingham
street, W.C., on July 16th. The President occupied the chair. There
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OcT., 1900.
were also present :—Dr. Richard Hodgson, Mr. St. George Lane Fox
Pitt, Mr. H. Arthur Smith and Dr. A. Wallace.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
One new Member and one new Associate were elected. The
election of four new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Names and addresses are given above.
Some presents to the Library were on the table, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donors.
After the discussion of some other matters, it was agreed that a
General Meeting of the Society be held at the Westminster Town
Hall, on Monday, October 29th, the chair to be taken at 4 p.m.
The next meeting of the Council was ﬁxed for October 5th, to be
held at 19, Buckingham-street, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 107th General Meeting of the Society was held in the West
minster Town Hall on Monday, July 16th, at 8.30 p.m. ; the President,
MR. F. W. H. MYERs, in the chair.
THE PREsIDENT read a paper on “Trance-utterance and other
Phenomena observed with Mrs. Thompson,” giving a general account
of her trances, with a few illustrations of information given at
sittings, the full reports of some of which we hope to publish shortly.
DR. R. HonGsoN said that he had not yet had any sittings with
Mrs. Thompson, and could not speak of their evidential value from the
point of view of personal experience. He had, however, had the oppor
tunity of reading over a large number of records of her manifestations,
and had been impressed especially by what seemed to be the later
developments of her trance phenomena, though he had not been able
to study the records in detail. The earlier phenomena of Mrs.
Thompson, chieﬂy physical, had not been performed under very
stringent conditions, according to the accounts which appeared in Light,
but the records of her later trances suggested resemblances to Mrs.
Piper’s phenomena as they were some years ago under the re'gime of
the control known as Phinuit. The speaker then proceeded to
enumerate several points, general and special, in which the utterances
of “Nelly,” the control of Mrs. Thompson, seemed to resemble those
of Phinuit. The information supplied to the sitter was apt to be given
somewhat fragmentarily; it concerned both living and deceased persons ;
it tended, perhaps, to prove the existence of supernormal faculty of some
kind; but there was lacking the clearer evidence for the personal
identity of a speciﬁc communicating friend or relative of the sitter.
0012, 1900.] General Meeting. 295
There seemed, however, to be more of this “ personal identity” quality
in a few of the most recent sittings, and he hoped that there might be
a rapid development of Mrs. Thompson’s phenomena along this line.
According to the records, Mrs. Thompson had experiences of several
types which had never been exhibited by Mrs. Piper. Mrs. Piper had
no experiences in her ordinary waking state, obtained no manifestations
of the ordinary “physical phenomena” type, and recollected no
experiences of her own during the trance state. Passing over Mrs.
Thompson’s experiences on these lines, and taking the records of her
ordinary trance utterances, it seemed that there were occasional com
plete failures with sitters, there was often a mixture of correct and
incorrect statement, and there were apparently statements which
suggested disturbances by previous communicators; analogous cases
were found in the records of Mrs. Piper’s earlier trances. The speaker
gave speciﬁc instances of the diﬂiculty in getting proper names, and in
ascertaining the precise source of apparently supernormal information,
as where knowledge seemed to be shown of events occurring elsewhere
at the time of the sitting,—mentioning cases from the records of Mrs.
Thompson in connection with cases which had come under his own
experience with Mrs. Piper. He referred also to some statements that
he had noticed in the records of Mrs. Thompson as made by the control
“Nelly” concerning her own use of the left side of Mrs. Thompson’s
brain, and the use by other controls of the right side of the medium’s
brain. He thought it was desirable to keep in mind that in connection
with trance manifestations generally, problems of the utmost import
ance arose from an empirical point of view concerning the relations
between mind and body, and entirely independent of such questions
as that of a future life or the spiritistic hypothesis. The primary con
sideration for us was to understand more of the conditions of such trance
manifestations, to ascertain more deﬁnitely the causes of incoherence
and obscurity and failure, and, as far as possible, to remove them.
MR. ST. GEoRGE LANE Fox PITT said that the evidences of super
normal agencies shown by the phenomena of Mrs. Piper, Mrs.
Thompson, and others seemed to be absolutely overwhelming, and the
investigations of Mr. Myers and Dr. Hodgson were of great interest
and value; but he urged that the use made by them of the “Spirit
hypothesis ” was unfortunate, inasmuch as it offered no real explanation
of the phenomena, while, on the contrary, it might tend to prejudice
scientiﬁc inquiry by shirking diﬂiculties instead of explaining them.
It was as though, in answer to a question as to how something was
produced, we were told that it was “made by machinery.” This kind
of answer, although it might satisfy the average mind, was, of course,
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [0cT..1900.
no explanation at all. The use of words and phrases to cover our
ignorance of the modus operandi of phenomena was a danger against
which we ought to be constantly on our guard. It should be born in
mind, too, that “telepathy,” “ clairvoyance,” “ the subliminal con
sciousness,” and “ spirits” were not of necessity mutually exclusive
theories ; but were merely indicative of certain aspects of the phenomena,
or the psychic processes that were involved in them. Thus it might be
that the agencies underlying the phenomena might include all these ;
and that the “intelligences” manifesting might be the outcome of a com
bination of psychic inﬂuences, just as were the creatures of our dreams.
The fact that they appeared to have an independent existence beyond
the limits of certain conditions was no proof of such independence.
In spite of Mr. Myers’ voluminous and lucid expositions of the
subject, the idea of a subliminal consciousness or mind was usually quite
misunderstood, for it was really a most complex and comprehensive
idea. Broadly it might be said to include that over-shadowing destiny
of the individual with all its immense ramiﬁcations and aﬂinities, as
well as that mere fragment of its potentiality which happened to come
under observation on some particular occasion. One function of the
subliminal mind was comparable to that of a reservoir for the conscious
self,—to take in and give out memories and inﬂuences, increasing the
resources and preventing waste of mental eﬂ'ort. Now the derangement
of this function might well account for many of the eccentricities and
contradictions of its manifestations.
MR. OoLLINGWooD said that according to certain physiological
investigations in connection with localisation of functions in the brain,
the centres for language were located in the left hemisphere of the
brain in the third frontal convolution, and it might be interesting
to inquire what occurred when the alleged control was using the right
hemisphere only.
One or two other questions were asked, and the President read a
brief account of another sitting with Mrs. Thompson.
The meeting then adjourned.
THE INTERNATIONAL PSYCHOLOGICAL INSTITUTE AT
THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF PSYCHOLOGY.
Paris, August, 1900.
BY OswAw MURRAY.
DR. OCHoRowwz delivered an address at the third meeting of the
Congress, on the International Psychical Institute, the foundation of
001, 1900.] The International Psychological Institute. 297
which was noticed in a previous number of this Journal. Dr.
Ochorowicz gave a rapid sketch of the growth of psychology during
the last century and referred to several abortive efforts that had been
made on different occasions to establish a centre for comparative study
in the several branches of this science The only successful achieve
ment in this direction consisted in the International Congresses that
had been held, at the fourth of which he was then speaking. These
Congresses only met, however, at intervals of four years, and during
the intervening period no permanent centre existed where the
collective work which constituted so valuable a feature of the
Congresses could be carried on. Dr. Ochorowicz then referred to the
Institute which had been recently founded in Paris for the purpose of
eeting this requirement and of facilitating research in the several
ranches of experimental psychology. This Institute already had the
support of most of the leading psychologists and philosophers of
France, as also of several other countries. He urged the members of
the Congress to give their support to this movement.
PRoFEssoR RICHET supported the appeal made by Dr. Ochorowicz
in an eloquent speech, in which he urged the members of the Congress
to give their support to the Institute, to make its foundation known in
all the countries they represented on their return to their respective
homes, and to endeavour to obtain adherents to it.
PRoFRssoR SEAILLEs dwelt on the utility of the project from the
point of view of speculative philosophy.
PRoFEssoR FLoURNoY stated that, being looked upon as an “ ofﬁcial
scientist,” students often came to him with the request that he would
express an opinion with regard to problems pertaining to the domain of
the “supernormal.” It would be unscientiﬁc for any man to express
an opinion under such circumstances with regard to phenomena of that
nature which he had not had an opportunity of examining. “ We
want opportunities of research,” said Professor Flournoy. “ Experi
mental observation should be facilitated. Our ignorance of to-day
might then become replaced by some degree of knowledge.”
MR. F. W. H. MYERs remarked that the S.P.R. already aimed at
being international in its humble way, but that in the things of the
mind it was desirable that everybody should be as international as
possible, and he heartily wished success to the new venture.
The Committee of the Institute held a reception the same evening
in the rooms of its temporary oﬂices. Over two hundred members of
the Congress attended, and the object and aims of the Institute were
further discussed.
298 Journal of Society for Peg/chical Research. [OcT.,1900.
A meeting of the International Council and the executive
committee was held subsequently.
It was decided to alter the title of the Institute to “ the Inter
national Psychological Institute,” in order to meet the views of many
members of the Congress, expressed during the discussion of the address
by Dr. Ochorowicz and subsequently at the reception.
It was also decided to undertake no experimental work and not to
publish a journal till a fund commensurate with the importance and
international character of the enterprise had been raised.
CASES.
G. 242 (continued). Apparition.
Readers of the Journal may remember an account given by Miss
M. W. Scott, of Lessudden House, St. Boswell’s, Roxburghshire, of an
apparition seen several times by herself, and occasionally by others, on
a country road near her home. (See the Journal S.P.R. for November,
1893 ,- Vol. VI., p. 146.) Her ﬁrst experience was in May, 1892, when,
walking down a short incline on her way home, she saw a tall man
dressed in black a few yards in front of her. He turned a corner of
the road, being still in view of her, and there suddenly disappeared.
On following him round the corner, Miss Scott found a sister of hers,
also on her way home, who had just seen a tall man dressed in black,
whom she took for a clergyman, coming to meet her on the road. She
looked away for a moment, and on looking towards him again could
see no one anywhere near. Miss Scott on overtaking her found her
looking up and down the road and into the ﬁelds in much bewilder
ment. It appeared that they had not seen the man at exactly the
same moment nor in exactly the same place, but from their description
of the surroundings it seems impossible that it could have been a real
person, who had contrived to get away unnoticed.
In July of the same year at about the same place, Miss Scott
walking with another of her sisters saw approaching them a dark
ﬁgure dressed in black, with a long coat, gaiters and knee-breeches, a
wide white cravat and low-crowned hat ; the sister also saw the upper
part of the ﬁgure, which seemed to fade away into the bank by the
side of the road as they looked at it.
Again, in June, 1893, walking alone on the road in the morning,
Miss Scott saw a dark ﬁgure some way in front, which she recognised
as the apparition when she got nearer to it. She made a de
termined eﬂ'ort to overtake it, but could not get nearer than a few
yards, as it then seemed to ﬂoat or skim away. At length, however,
OcT., 1900.] Cases. 299
it stopped, turned round and faced her ; then moved on a few steps,
and turned and looked back again, ﬁnally fading from her view by 'a
hedge. She was able to notice fully the details of the dress,—knee
breeches, black silk stockings and shoe-buckles,—like the dress of
Scottish clergymen about a century ago.
The apparition was also said to have been seen at different times by
some children and other persons in the neighbourhood; but of this
no ﬁrst-hand accounts were forthcoming. There was also a legend
that a child had been murdered close by; “but,” Miss Scott wrote,
“this fact is quite beyond the recollection of the oldest inhabitant of
the neighbourhood,” and it seems not unlikely that it was invented to
account for the ghost.
Since the narrative was printed we have received several other
accounts of a similar apparition having been seen by various persons
at different times in the same place ; and we now give all the further
evidence on the subject that has so far reached us.
The ﬁrst account is given in a letter from Miss Louisa Scott—the
sister who shared Miss M. W. Scott’s ﬁrst experience—to Miss Guthrie,
the lady through whose kindness we received the original narrative in
1893. This letter is as follows :—
Lessudden House, St. Boswell’s, August 14th, 1894.
DEAR MIss GUTHRm,—As Iknow you are interested in the movements
of our ghost, I am writing to tell you another little anecdote about him.
A young lady, who is a governess in this neighbourhood, told me this after
noon of a meeting she had had with him this spring. She was returning home
along the haunted road at about a quarter past four in the afternoon, when
she was attracted by seeing in front of her a rather tall old man, dressed in a
long black cloak, with one cape which came to a little below his shoulders ;
his hat, as on the occasions when my sisters and I saw him, was low-crowned,
and the brim slouched over his eyes. My informant was much interested in
this peculiar-looking person, and did not take her eyes off him, whilst she
watched him walk backward and forward between the turn of the road and
a heap of stones about a hundred yards lower down; he repeated this six
times, the last time stopping as if he were speaking to a man who was cutting
the hedge at the time. What struck Miss Irvine as peculiar was that the
man who was hedge-cutting did not look round, and seemed quite unconscious
of the other’s presence. Miss Irvine walked on, and was going to pass the
old man, when, to her astonishment, he vanished when she was only about
three yards from him.
I know that you will think it foolish of Miss Irvine not questioning the
hedger to whom the apparition looked as if he were speaking. I asked her
why she had not, and she answered that she had not liked doing so, as the
labourer would undoubtedly have thought her mad, as he clearly did not see
any one.
300 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1900.
I am sure you will think this story most interesting, knowing all our
experiences in days gone by. The extraordinary part of this man is that he
always frequents the same part of the road, and yet does not vanish twice
on the same spot ; when my sister and I saw him he became invisible on the
left side of the road, and when Miss Irvine saw him he vanished on the
right. Miss Irvine is most positive about all she told us, and says she will
be delighted to send her account to Mr. Myers.
I do wish we could see “our man” again. I have passed along that road
hundreds of times since he was ﬁrst seen, and at all hours of the day. I think
he cannot have liked the way I stared at him the last time. Another thing
we think funny is the variety of coats which he seems to possess, and all of
an antique cut. He has the long black cloak with the cape in which Miss
Irvine saw him, and the clerical-looking cloak with the large deep pockets in
which we met him ; then on the other occasion, when the village girls saw
him, he had round him the ﬁlmy-looking sheet. My sister has written to
Sir George Douglas to ask him if he can tell her the exact spot on this road
where an old man was murdered by gipsies coming from St. Boswell’s fair
many years ago. Sir George Douglas tells his story among a number of
other old border tales, which no doubt you have read. I hope some day to
be able to tell you more about the ghost. At present I am afraid he is
underground. With kind regards, yours sincerely,
LoUIsA SCoTT.
In reply to our inquiries, Miss Irvine sent soon after her own
account of her experience. By an unfortunate accident, the ﬁrst sheet
of her letter was lost and has not been recovered ; but we print here
thedatter part, which gives some of the details at ﬁrst-hand.
Greycrook, St. Boswell’s, Roxburghshire.
This seemed to me stranger than ever and I wondered what I had seen,
for he was nowhere in the ﬁeld. On returning home I described the old
gentleman to some friends who were likely to know if a person answering
my description lived in the neighbourhood, but was told, “No.” He was
dressed rather like a clergyman, wore a long black cloak with cape and
slouched hat, his hands in his coat pockets. I had never seen anything of
the kind before, though I had frequently walked the same road and at all
hours. This happened about four o’clock in the afternoon. I have not
again seen him.
MARY BLAMIRE IRvINE.
In August, 1898, Miss M. W. Scott wrote to Mr. Myers as
follows :—
. Our apparition . . . is still seen . . . My latest
experience was about a fortnight ago, when coming down the haunted
road in the dusk I distinctly heard footsteps walking beside me, but
could see nothing, though I am sure there must have been an unseen
presence around from the state of nervous terTor which generally makes
itself felt on such occasions.
OCr., 1900.] Cases. 301
Last autumn, and again in the dusk, I was walking down the little wood
adjacent to the road with my sister. We were both talking upon indifferent
subjects and putting the ghost as far from our thoughts as possible, when
suddenly I was carried spell-bound by distinctly seeing the apparition
walking alongside of us on the other side of the hedge. My sister saw me
gazing vacantly on space when I suddenly exclaimed “ The man!” When we
came to the gate which divides the wood from the road there was no one to
to be seen either way, though “ he ” had walked within three feet of me the
whole time; he was invisible to my sister. It is a strange phenomenon
altogether. He had the same countenance we have always seen, but I did
not seem to have the power to look beyond his face. This ghost always
appears when our thoughts are bound up in something else, but if the
opposite, then we are sure not to see him, and many persons who have
accompanied up [and] down the road in hopes of seeing him have, like our
selves, failed to do so. . . . M W SCoTT
In answer to inquiries made later, Miss Scott writes .
Lessudden House, St. Boswell’s, N.B.,
October 16th, 1899.
In reply to your ﬁrst question, it was my second sister Susan,
(the one who had only seen the apparition in a vague way before) who was
with me in the autumn of 1897. In this instance we both saw it distinctly,
as also did a lady friend who was further down the road at the same time. I
sent an account of this before, so doubtless you will have seen the
particulars.
About the other question ; my sister Louisa and myself positively affirm
that we were both looking at the same object ; it was perfectly visible to me
at the very moment that it was invisible to her, and standing only a few
yards distant; it was bright daylight, I think between ﬁve and six on a
May afternoon. and the road perfectly clear and dry. At the place where we
saw the man, no one could possibly escape without our perceiving it, except
by supernatural ways. There were two gates further down ; had he been a
real man he must have passed where my sister was, as no one would ever
think of attempting to jump over the hedges ; they were both far too high.
A Miss Irvine, once a resident in St. Boswell’s but now married, sent an
experience she had with this same ghost to Mr. Myers, and was so much
upset by the incident that she went into the house not far off and took
hysterics. Her story varied a little from ours in point of detail as regarded
costume ; still I believe we all saw one and the same person. This ghost is
now well authenticated and our friends often greet us with the question,
“ Well, have you seen the man lately ? ” To this I can only add in conclusion
that none of my family have seen him for some time. . .
M. W. SCoTT.
In later letters, Miss Scott says that she thinks she was mistaken
about the date of the ﬁrst occasion mentioned above, when she and her
sister Susan and another lady saw the apparition, as on making further
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1900.
inquiries from her sisters, it appeared that neither of them had seen it
since 1893. Not having kept any notes of the accounts which she
sent to us, her recollections of the diﬁ'erent occasions had—not
unnaturally—become a little confused; and it seems likely that this
was the occasion, previously described, of July, 1892. The other
witness was an old lady, who was a long way down the road, and who
declared in December, 1899, that she certainly remembered having
seen a dark ﬁgure in the distance between them and herself. She was
too far off to distinguish it clearly, but took it for a woman dressed in
black going to the churchyard. She promised Miss Scott to write her
recollections, but owing to illness and troubles in her family, has
hitherto been unable to attend to the matter.
There appears to be another legend of a murder in the neighbour
hood, which, however, there were no grounds for connecting in any way
with the apparition, and it was also said that a clergyman of the parish
—since dead—had “ seen something.” Miss Scott afterwards met one
of his daughters, but could only learn that he had objected on con
scientious grounds to speaking of his experience.
In December, 1899, Miss Scott sent the following fuller account of
the second incident described in the letter given above, when she was
accompanied by her sister Louisa. Here again her recollection of the
dates seems to vary ; but the main features of the two accounts
correspond closely, except that in the ﬁrst she says that it was bright
daylight and in the second that it was beginning to be dusk.
. . Our experiences [of 1892 and 1893], after having become the
talk of the town and a nine days’ wonder, gradually subsided, and, per
sonally, we had no further manifestations till the spring (April, I think)
of 1897. My sister and myself were paying an afternoon visit at a friend’s
house situated near the haunted road, and having rather overstayed our
time, the dusk was just beginning to fall over the landscape around; it
being then suggested that we should take a shorter out home, we gladly
availed ourselves of the permission to walk through the park and wood
which open out of and enter the evil-reputed road. Upon coming to the end
of the park, there is a small gate and narrow pathway, separated from the
road by a hedge and some trees ; the space between being only a few yards,
a pedestrian on the other side is distinctly visible. At the other end of the
wood, again, there is another gate, which [leads to] the small incline and
angle of the road, and, looking either way, the whole expanse is clearly
deﬁned. Just about this time we had nothing supernatural in our thoughts.
and were talking and laughing gaily together. Suddenly by some magnetic
inﬂuence our conversation seemed gradually to cease, for when we were
quite half-way down the wood, I noticed a man’s ﬁgure walking alongside
of me between the hedge on the other side, which, either real or unreal,
I was determined not to lose sight of. As though cast over by a spell
OcT., 1900.] Cases. 303
my gaze became ﬁxed, as in a moment I recognised the ghastly features
of the apparition. I cannot tell how he was clothed, or if he wore a hat;
my eyes seemed ﬁxed only on the proﬁle from just below the forehead.
Instinctively I felt he moved beside me, but heard no sound or footsteps of
any kind. My sister saw nothing, and not being equal to the occasion,
I made no remark, until we had almost reached the end of the boundary,
then exclaimed in French, “L’homme!” At that moment the ghost must have
vanished, for when we opened the gate to pass through, not a living soul was
there ; had it been a person of either sex, we were perfectly certain to have
met. It was very strange my companion should perceive nothing unusual,
though she remarked about me “ staring into space." It is quite impossible
to account for this phantom—it is no illusion formed by a disordered brain
or based upon imagination or defective light ; the sun had certainly set, the
dusk slightly fallen, but giving quite sufficient power for mutual recognitions.
The man had walked calmly on, looking straight in front of him, never
appearing to notice anything, as though engaged in deep meditation.
The remainder of the account describes again in fuller detail Miss
Scott's hearing the footsteps walking beside her on the road, when
she could see no one there, as described in her letter of August, 1898.
She gives also a'rough plan of the locality (see below, p. 305).
On August 17th, 1900, Miss Scott wrote to say that she had
recently seen the apparition twice, the most recent occasion having
been “only last night.” She describes it as follows :—
July 24th, 1900.—I am writing to let you know the dates that I have
again seen the apparition that haunts a road near St. Boswell’s. The locality
has been described before, so that it is not necessary for me to enter into
further details regarding it. On the evening of July 24th I was standing
speaking to a friend, exactly upon the part known as the property of that
“ mysterious he.” I had forgotten the very existence of our supernatural
neighbour, and while we conversed upon indilferent subjects, I inadvertently
glanced carelessly down the expanse beyond, when I perceived the tall black
ﬁgure walking on in advance with his back towards us. How he came to be
there I had not the faintest idea, not having remarked his advent. I made
no comment to my companion, but, wishing her a hasty adieu, hurried away
as quickly as possible to try and make up upon him, but he instantly
vanished ;—there was no one to be seen either high or low. It was just
eight o’clock in the evening, as I heard the hour chime in the village
almost at the same time. He was dressed in the same way, namely, all in
black, and was only proceeding about twenty yards away.
I have not since ascertained if my companion at the moment saw any one,
as she is an unbeliever in such manifestations, and says it is all imagination,
and often laughed me to scorn when I said anything about the ghost on the
road ; but, believing or not believing, it is certainly an unpleasant sensation
to see a long ﬁgure clothed in sable raiment appear and so quickly vanish
again without any apparent reason on a lonely thoroughfare.
.304 Journal of Society for Psych/icat Research. [0cT., 1900.
My second illustration of last night, August 16th, 1900, can tell you
something more deﬁnite than the previous one, for I certainly believe the
man to be a clergyman of the ancient school, but why this “Father of the
Church” frequents that road is an unexplained mystery. On this occasion
the outline of his head and shoulders were completely visible—all black,
with a wide white mufﬂer-looking thing wound round his throat; his hair
seems light, face clean-shaven and very pale, but he was not quite near
enough for the features to become clearly deﬁned; the hat looked like an
ordinary clerical wide-awake, only the crown seemed much higher than those
used in the present day. The lower part of his body [was] overshadowed,
as he was advancing towards me up the incline, while I was on the level
above.
There was a man with a pony and trap cutting grass by the roadside
within a few feet of where I saw the apparition appear, who had his back to
the worker ; yet, the most wonderful part of it all is that when I questioned
the man, he declared he had seen “ no one.” “ But,” I said, “ he was close
beside you.” He still declared he saw “no person there,” so I let the
matter end, though I expect that he, like the whole village, knows well the
reputation of the road, for he looked slightly nervous and remarked “it
was not a safe place to come down alone.”
This completes the tale of my latest encounter .
M. W. SCoTT.
The following letter gives some further details of this last occasion,
in answer to questions :—
August 26th, 1900.
. Last evening I went down the road with my two sisters and some
friends, but the “ ghost ” did not make his presence apparent ; neither did
he upon our return ; so I had time to make a few more deﬁnite observations
which will form the answer to your question. The apparition and I were
walking towards one another. I was too much taken up watching the
proceedings of the supernatural to notice the operations of the working man,
until the vision of the other had died away, when I then turned my atten
tion to the real subject, who was then facing the road and actually looking at
the place where the spectre had disappeared a few seconds before. The
pony and trap had evidently moved on a little from the part where the owner
was occupied and afterwards stood still; the movements of all being such
that the entire expanse beyond was an unobstructed view to any person
coming or going upon it ; thus, the animal was really nearest the apparition,
whose back was close to its head as he advanced. It may only have been a
coincidence, but the pony gave itself a violent shake in its harness just at
the time. Horses have been known to exhibit signs of fear on such
occasions, but as they frequently go through such antics for other causes,
this fact can be no criterion for judging the point.
If you are in possession of the letter written to Mr. Myers by a Miss
Irvine, Who used to live in St. Boswell’s a few years ago, you will remark
that this incident is almost on a parallel with her account of seeing the
apparition standing beside the man cutting hedges, yet, when questioned, he
Fmm‘Wm 908
swno
Lane
Fields
Phth
Fields
Fields
Fields
PLAN
oF
LoCALITY.
L
2,
3,
respective
positions
of
Miss
M.
\V.
Scott,
Miss
L.
Scott,
and
the
apparition
in
1897.
The
other
ﬁgures
refer
to
the
positions
on
August
16th,
1900.
4,
Miss
Scott;
5,
the
apparition,
its
head
and
shouldeIs
appearing
above
the
incline;
6,
man
on
road
;
7,
his
pony
and
trap;
8
and
9,
gates
into
the
ﬁelds
on
either
side.
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1900.
too declared that he had seen nothing. We have interTogated different
persons employed on the road, and one in particular who has occasion to
pass along that way every morning and evening and to the village in all
seasons, but he has never noticed any one answering to the description
given. . . . M. W. SCon.
The accompanying rough plan is a combination of two sent by
Miss Scott to show the localities where she and her sister saw the
apparition in 1897 and where she alone saw it in August, 1900. From
the house at which they were calling in 1897, a footpath leads through
the park and wood, the part through the latter having a gate at each
end as shown, and passing out into the “haunted road.” This part of
the road is an incline, the arrow in the plan pointing up the slope.
Out of the road opens a lane, in which the child is said to have been
murdered by gipsies. The ﬁelds on each side of the road are bordered
by high hedges. The numbers on the plan show the positions of the
various persons as explained underneath it.
L. 1121. Ad P" Apparition.
The following account was sent to us by an Associate of the Society,
Mr. W. B. Fotheringham, of 19,' St. John’s-road, Westcliffe-on-Sea,
Essex. It will be seen that the case is not ﬁrst-hand, and cannot now
be improved on, since the percipient—Mr. Phillips—is no longer
living. But it is an instance of what was called in Phantasms of the
Living, “the sort of second-hand evidence which can on the whole be
placed on a par with ﬁrst-hand,”—the evidence, namely, of a person
who knew of the experience of the percipient while the latter was still
unaware of the corresponding event, and had had equal opportunities
with the percipient for learning the truth of that event and conﬁrming
the coincidence.
It is remarkable that few or no narratives of apparitions seen at
the time of death have reached us during the last few years. This can
hardly be because the incidents no longer occur ;—it seems probable,
therefore, that our members are under the impression that we have
published enough evidence of the kind, and do not care to have any
more of it. This, however, is very far from being the case ; it is, on
the contrary, highly desirable to keep up a constant supply of such
evidence, so long as it is well authenticated, and especially when it
relates to recent occurrences. It is partly in the hope of impressing
this on our readers that we print the narrative sent by Mr. Fothering
ham. He writes :
19, St. John’s-road, Westcliffe-on-Sea, July 24th, 1900.
I do not know that the enclosed statement has any evidential value, but
am sending it to you for what it is worth. Mrs. Phillips is a sister of my
Ocr., 1900.] Cases. 307
housekeeper, and, as the latter has been with me more than fourteen years,
I know the family very well, and can vouch for their being entirely trust
worthy. Still, with the most reliable of witnesses, it is, of course,
necessary to make some allowance for possible errors of memory.
Although Mrs. Phillips has not been able to recall the exact date at'
which this occurrence took place, she is conﬁdent that the month was either
April or May, and she believes that the time of day was early in the after
noon. At all events she is quite sure the apparition was seen in broad
dayhght W. B. FoTHERINGHAM.
The statement enclosed is as follows :—
July 20th, 1900.
The following occurrence took place about three years ago, but it has
not been possible to ﬁx the date with greater precision. Mr. Phillips, the
immediate percipient, has since died, but I have received the statement
personally from Mrs. Phillips who, it will be clear from the circumstances
attending the case, knew of the apparition at the time of its appearance and
before there could have been any knowledge of the actual death.
Mrs. Robotham and her husband had lodged for four years with Mr. and
Mrs. Phillips at their house, No. 4, Underhill Street, Camden Town, which
they had occupied for more than forty years, and which is still tenanted by
Mrs. Phillips. Mrs. Robotham was, consequently, particularly well known
to Mr. and Mrs. P., who were the less likely to be mistaken in her identity.
Some three years before her death, Mrs. Robotham and her husband left the
house of Mr. and Mrs. P. and took rooms elsewhere, but the intimacy
between the parties still continued, Mrs. Robotham frequently coming into
the shop kept by her former landlord. Finally, upon one occasion
Mrs. Robotham called at the shop to say good-bye, her husband having
obtained work in the country and wishing her to go to him. She was seen
upon that occasion by Mrs. Phillips, who says she then looked very ill, and
seemed quite unﬁt to travel.
About a fortnight later, Mr. Phillips was at work in his shop, being
at the time alone, when, happening to look up, he distinctly saw the face of
Mrs. Robotham, who seemed to be standing outside in the passage and
looking round the edge of the door. The face disappeared almost imme
diately, but Mrs. Phillips says that her husband was absolutely convinced
that Mrs. Robotham had actually been there. To put it as nearly as
possible in her own words :—
“ He (Mr. Phillips) came out and asked me whether Mrs. Robotham had
~' come into the kitchen, as she had just looked into the shop and gone away
again. I said I had not seen her, and that he must certainly be mistaken,
as we knew she had gone away into the country. He was quite positive,
however, that she had looked into the shop, and said he was certain he could
not have been mistaken. So sure was he that he went to the street door and
looked up and down the street in the full expectation of seeing her some
where about. I asked him how she was dressed and he said, ‘Like she
always is—in her black bonnet.’ He had only seen the head and face. We
308 Jolu/rnal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1900.
waited several hours, expecting her to come back. When we found she did
not do so, I said to Mr. Phillips that if he had really seen her it must have
been her spirit and she must certainly be dead, as I knew she would never
come to Camden Town without coming to see me.
“About a week afterwards Mr. Robotham came into the shop. I saw
that he was in mourning, and at once said, ‘You need not tell us. We
knew a week ago that Mrs. Robotham was dead. We saw her spirit.’ Mr.
Robotham told us when his wife had died, and we reckoned that we had seen
her on the same day or the day after.”
I have read the above statement, and certify it to be in every way correct.
(Signed) M. A. PHILLIPs.
I remember hearing from my sister and brother-in-law of the above
occurTence shortly after it happened. They were both much impressed by
it at the time. (Signed) E- HUTCHINs
Ki it he n
N
U
2
O.
X 9.’
o
5
Shop Passage 3
Underhill Street
Mr. Fotheringham sends a rough plan of the shop, which we repro
duce. He writes :—“This was originally a private house, and access
to the shop is obtained only through the passage.” The place where
the apparition seemed to stand is indicated by the cross (x).
No. CLXXIII.-—Von. IX. NovEMBER, 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RESEARCH.
CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 309
Meeting of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 3I0
Obituary: the Marquis of Bute .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 310
Fire-Walking Ceremonies in India .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 312
Correspondence :— '
Dr. Lehmamfs Criticisms of sir William Crookes’ Experiments with D. D. Home 322
NEWT MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of rllernbers are printed in Black TYPC.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
AsHER, MIss KATE, High Laggary, Row, Dumbartonshire, N.B.
HoME, MRs. RoBERT, Beaufort House, Cheltenham.
HosKING, WILLIAM H., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Masterton, New Zealand.
MILLER. REv. J. PRIEsT, Surlingham Vicarage, Norwich.
PALLISER, ARTHUR, JU‘N'R., 52, Mount Ararat, Richmond, Surrey.
Raikes, His Honour Judge, Q.C., The Leat House, Malton.
RoWE, ALFRED, 5, Crossley-terrace, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
SMITH, W. JoHNsoN, Godmanstone Manor, near Dorchester.
SPENCER, CYRIL E., Nicosia, Cyprus.
STANsFELD, MIss, The Sesame Club, Dover-street, Piccadilly, W.
WALKER, MIss MADELINE J., 28, Norfolk-st., Hyde Park, London, W.
WILLIAMs, J. FIsCHER, 7, New-square, Lincoln’s Inn, London, W.C.
Worsley-Roberts, M1‘S., c/o Messrs. Lewis and Newton, 14, South
square, Gray’s Inn, London, W.C.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BURGEss, DR. 0. 0., 373, Geary-street, San Francisco, Cal.
CARD-CATLIN, MRs. LowsA, 726, French-street, Erie, Pa.
OI-IARD, R. J., 347, West 87th-street, New York, N.Y.
Cox, Mes. RoWLAND, 310, West 7th-street, Plainﬁeld, N.J.
DonGR, EDWIN L., 6 and 8, Friend-street, Boston, Mass.
DoNALDsoN, JAMEs W., Ellenville, N.Y.
PACE, PRoF. E. A., Catholic University of America, Washington, D.C.
310 J0-amal of Society for 1)6:l/Clti(;(.Lt l‘i686(-tr'alL. [Nov., \900.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the Rooms of the Society, 19, Buckingham
street, W.C., on October 5th. The President occupied the chair. There
were also present :—Sir William Crookes, Dr. Richard Hodgson, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Dr.
C. Lloyd Tuckey, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Two new Members and eleven new Associates were elected. The
election of seven new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Names and addresses are given above.
Under a deep sense of the loss which the Society has sustained, the
Council recorded the death of Professor Henry Sidgwick, who ﬁlled
the oﬂice of President from the formation of the Society in 1882 to
1884, and again from 1888 to 1892. A letter was read from Professor
Oliver J. Lodge, in which he said :—“ It must be a universal feeling
among the active members of the S.P.R. that it is impossible adequately
to express our indebtedness to the extraordinary wisdom and guiding
power of Henry Sidgwick.” Professor Lodge proceeded to urge that
Mr. Myers be asked to prepare a commemorative address to be de
livered at an early meeting of the Society. In pursuance of the
general view expressed by Professor Lodge in his letter, it was
resolved, on the proposition of Sir William Crookes, seconded by Dr.
Hodgson, that the Council invite the President to deliver a commemo
rative address at the Meeting to be held on October 29th. The Presi
dent expressed his willingness to carry out the wishes of the Council.
The Council also recorded with regret the death of Viscount
Encombe, of the Rev. B. J. Clarke, S.J., and of Mrs. Bullock, all of
whom had been Associates of the Society for some years.
Some presents to the Library were on the table, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donors.
Various other matters having engaged the attention of the Council,
it was agreed that the next meeting be at 3 p.m., on Monday, October
29th, at the Westminster Town Hall, previous to the General Meeting
arranged for that day.
®bituarg.
THE MARQUIS OF BUTE, K.T. (VICE-PREsIDENT S.P.R.)
Jllagnus civic obit. The death of the Marquis of Bute has removed
from earth a great chieftain, a great magnate, a great proprietor, yet
withal a ﬁgure, a character, which carried one back into the Ages of
Faith. Many will mourn the close of that life,—magniﬁcent at once
Nov.,1900.] Obituary: the Marquis of Bute, K.T. 311
and muniﬁcent ;—far-governing, and yet gently thoughtful in minute
detail. Some will miss in more intimate fashion the massive simplicity
of his presence ;-the look in his eyes of trustfulness at once and
tenacity ;—that look which we call doglike, when we mean to imply
that dogs are nobler than men. The youth whose vast wealth and
eager religion suggested (it was said) to Lord Beaconsﬁeld the idea of
his Lotha/ir had become constantly wealthier and more religious as
years went on. Amid the palaces of his structure and of his inherit
ance he lived a life simple and almost solitary; a life of long walks
and long conversations on the mysteries of the world unseen. To a
fervent Roman Catholicism he joined a ready openness to the elements
of a more Catholic faith. That same yearning for communion with
the invisible which showed itself in his Prayer-books and Missals, his
Byzantine Churches restored, his English Churches built, showed itself
also in the great crystal hung in his chapel at St. John’s Lodge ;—as it
were the mystic focus of that green silence in the heart of London’s
roar ;—and in the horoscope of his nativity painted on the dome of his
study at Mount Stuart ;—and in that vaster, strange-illumined vault
of Mount Stuart's central hall.
[iv SE 1'1‘: relpca. 1rd1rra Ta 1'’ obpavds e’0'1'6¢civro1'aL.—
Hardly had such a sight been seen since Hephaestus wrought in
ﬂaming gold the Signs of Heaven, and zoned the Shield of Achilles
with the ﬁrmament and the sea. For in like manner at Lord Bute’s
bidding was that great vault encircled with a translucent zone which
pictured the constellations of the Ecliptic ;—-the starry lights repre
sented by prisms inserted in that “dome of many-coloured glass.”
Therethrough, as through a ﬁctive Zodiac, travelled the sun all day ;
with many a counterchange of azure stains or emerald on the broad
ﬂoor below, and here and there the dazzling ﬂash of a sudden-kindled
star. It seemed the work of one who wished, by sign at least and
symbol, to call down “an intermingling of heaven’s pomp” upon that
pavement which might have been traversed only by the pacings of
earthly power and pride.
Through such scenes their fashioner would walk; weary and
weighted often with the encumbering ﬂesh; but always in slow medi
tative brooding on the Spiritual City, and a house not made with
hands. “A cruel superstition!” he said once of those who would
presume to fetter or forbid our communication with beloved and
blessed Souls behind the veil. A cruel superstition indeed! and
hardly with any truer word upon his lips might a man pass from
the company of those who listen, to those who speak.
F. W. H. M.
312 Journal of Society for Psycluical Resewrch. [Nov., 1900. _
t_:==¢____ ﬁg :___ti 7 W >
FIRE-WALKING CEREMONIES IN INDIA.
Mr. Andrew Lang’s article on “The Fire Walk ” in Proceedings,
Part XXXVI., pp. 2—15, will be fresh in the memory of our readers ;
and since its publication we have received the following account of the
same ceremony in India from Mr. Henry K. Beauchamp, M.R.A.S.,
F.R.H.S., Fellow of the University of Madras. Mr. Beauchamp lives
in Madras, having edited the chief daily paper there—the Madras
1l[ail—for the last twelve years.
Colonel Welsh, in his Reminiscences, published early in the present cen
tury, has a long and detailed account of ﬁre-walking as performed by the
Sepoys of his regiment. They passed safely over glowing ashes strewn in a
pit, and also carried their children across with them. One small child
actually fell in amongst the ashes, but was quickly pulled out by his
relatives. When examined, it was found that the little fellow had sustained
no injuries, nor did he give any evidence of suffering after his ﬁre-bath.
Fire-walkers claim exemption from burning, and, as do all other miracle
workers in the East, claim to be able to perform their wonders through the
supernatural powers conferred on them on account of their merit. Such
merit is acquired and accumulated by multitudinous acts of self-denial, by
fastings, pilgrimages and various religious ceremonies. Hence a ﬁre-walker
claims exemption from burning not only for himself, but also for others by
his self-acquired, miraculous virtue, of which he has a suﬂicient stock for
himself and others.
A curious fact about ﬁre-walking in India is that it is countenanced and
thought much of even amongst the higher castes of Hindus, whose attitude
towards rites of an extravagant and public nature, such as the hook-swinging
and devil-dancing ceremonies of the South, is usually marked by a certain
haughty tolerance and studied aloofness. The particular ﬁre-walking per
formance which attracted so much attention in India some months ago took
place at the very hub of the Brahmin universe, in the Sacred City of Kasi,
c'.e., Benares.* It was under the direct patronage, too, of Maharajah
Bahadur Sir Jotendro Mohan Tagore, K.C.S.I., a Brahmin of the Brahmins,
who traces his descent back for over 1,000 years to one of the ﬁve famous
Brahmin prophets of Kanauj. It was in his palace that the Agni Yajua, as
the ceremony is called, took place, and a brilliant gathering was present,
including a party of Europeans, who had been specially invited. From the
account given by one of the latter, it appears that the ﬁre-pit was, as usual
in India, an oblong trench about 27 feet long, 8 feet wide, and 4 feet deep
not a circular pit as in the Fiji ceremony. Furthermore, only about a-third
* This appears to be the ﬁrst of the three occasions described by Dr. Th. Pascal,
under the title of Les Domptcurs du Feu, in the Annalee des Sciences Psychiques for
July—August, 1899. The date of that occasion was October 26th, 1898; the two
other cases described by Dr. Pascal occurred in the same place on December 7th,
1898, and in February, 1899.
Nov.,1900.] Fire- Walking Ceremonies in India. 313
of the entire length of the pit-ﬂoor lay at the full depth of 4 feet, as the
sides at the two extremities sloped gently inwards from the outside ground
level in order to enable the ﬁre-walker to enter and leave the pit glidingly
instead of plungingly.
Another marked difference between the Fijian and Indian paraphernalia
is that in India no big stones are placed in the pit. The Hindu ﬁre-walker
merely passes across incandescent cinders more or less quickly, and does not
perambulate slowly and deliberately over big red-hot water-worn boulders,
as the Fijian is described as doing. Indeed, as suggestive of the super
natural element the Indian ceremony does not bear comparison with the
Fijian, if the description of the latter can be implicitly trusted. At Benares
the actual length of the ﬁre layer was not more than 10 feet ; its width was
the full width of the pit ; and, being very thin, its surface was quite 3§ feet
below the outside ground-level. Shielded in this way from all currents of
air, with no natural breeze or artiﬁcial draught to animate the embers, the
ﬁre is described as having become somewhat inert, though undoubtedly alive.
Moreover the layer was nicely smoothed and then beaten down, so as to
present as clean and as ﬁrm a surface as possible to the sole of the foot.
The ﬁre-walking proper was preceded by an elaborate ritual of incanta
tions and solemn pantomime, including sword brandishing, idol parading,
circuit processioning, incense scattering, cocoanut smashing, plume waving:
all intended to subdue and render temporarily harmless the demon of the
ﬁre. Then, when all the grotesque rites had been ﬁnished, the chief per
former, attired in gorgeous silks and a huge turban, and holding a sword
aloft, walked barefooted, calmly and with apparent ease, down the entrance
slope, across the glowing ﬂoor of the pit, and then up the exit slope. His
pace was quick and his step light, but it was a deliberate walk. '
But the interest of the Agni Yajna is not primarily in the immunity
which the conjurer claims for himself, but in the immunity which he
guarantees to any one following him through the ﬁre—pit. In the Benares
performance, according to the eye-witness’s account, unfortunately not a
single individual followed the leader at a walk. Each dark-skinned venturer
before coming into contact with the ﬁre, took pains to acquire a swift momen
tum by dint of a ﬂying start down the sloping side : hence the run over the
incandescent layer was the work of three seconds—a mad rush. Each foot
touched the surface of the ﬁre not more than three times; and when it is
remembered that a running man moves on the ball of the foot, the extent
and the duration of the actual ﬁre contact may be easily judged. As a matter
of fact, however—hasty and light as the touch upon the red charcoal was—
not every runner escaped quite unhurt, though it was, of course, impossible
for the scamperers’ feet, with thick horny soles half insensible from lifelong
wear on rough ground surfaces, to feel acute pain under such conditions. It
was noted also that the crowd was for the most part under the inﬂuence of
religious excitement, and runners were therefore in no frame of mind to
notice, or at any rate make a fuss about, small burns.
At last one or two of the European visitors expressed a desire of “trying
it,” but when at length, as soon as the general excitement had partially
314 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1900.
abated, they were able to make this wish known, they were greatly dis
appointed to be informed that they were too late; the sacred inﬂuence having
ceased to be operative ! However, one gentleman, a Frenchman, labouring
under linguistic diﬂiculties, was somehow led to understand that the ﬁre was
still ready to receive him, and baring his feet he quietly ran the gauntlet.
In the result he was burnt—though not at all badly ; the duration of contact
was too momentary for that; but he promised himself some blisters next
day. It was then apologetically explained to him that the magic inﬂuence
laud evaporated a quarter of an hour previously ; and “ walkers ” could no
=longer enjoy immunity. Nevertheless. many natives, who had only just
managed to elbow their way to the front, continued for quite ten minutes
afterwards to run over the still incandescent charcoal—with exactly the same
result to all appearances as when the magic inﬂuence was fully operative ;
that is to say, most of them showed no consciousness of pain, while a few
who put their feet down awkwardly while traversing the ﬁre-zone sustained
slight burns.
The eye-witness who testiﬁes to the above facts does not attempt to
explain or hazard conjectures upon the cause of the imnnmity from burning.
Other eye-witnesses of similar ceremonies elsewhere in India have, however,
given various possible explanations. Thus, an English Missionary who was
present at a similar ceremony in a village near Madras not long ago—the
object of the ceremony in this case being to secure the favour of the village
goddess Varakhiyamman—found that at each end of the trench there were
small puddles of wet mud, which the devotees stepped into both before and
after cTossing the glowing embers. These opportune mud-puddles, and the
dust round the ﬁre-pit, to say nothing of the fact of the soles of their feet
being as tough as leather, must have been some protection to the devotees in
their short journey across the ﬁre. Moreover, there were no ﬂames to scorch
the more tender skin of their legs; and no doubt, the excitement of the
occasion, and their own professional pride, helped them to bear witho.ut
wincing any burns that they might receive. That they did not feel pain was
clear from the conduct of the leader, who, with a great sacriﬁcial jar balanced
on his head, went over thrice, as coolly and deliberately as though he was on
a made road.
Another explanation of the immunity from burning is that a decoction of
the Aloe -indica is used. It is said that the ﬂeshy part of the leaves is taken
and bruised and then squeezed through a piece of ﬂannel. A glutinous juice
is thus extracted not unlike castor oil in consistency. This is rubbed well
into the skin on the soles of the foot and the palms of the hands. The hair,
beard and eyebrows are also well saturated with it. After a careful and
thorough anointing the devotee is able to pass over glowing embers—there
must be no ﬂame—and he will suffer no hurt. He is even able to drag a
red-hot chain through his hands, to comb his hair and heard with a red-hot
metal comb, and take other liberties with the dreaded element which, under
ordinary circumstances, would assuredly cause his permanent injury. Those
who wish to “ pass through the ﬁre ” under his protection are similarly pre
pared beforehand. He, of course, mutters mantras. or incantations, over them
Nov.,1900.] Fire- Walking Ceremonies in India. 315
as he anoints them with the magical medicine, and they believe that highly
inﬂammable oil is under his divine inﬂuence able to render them ﬁre-proof.
I must leave it to my readers to choose which they like of these explana
tions; and if they believe that none of them is satisfactory, to account for
the phenomenon in their own way, be it natural or supernatural.
On the night of Sunday, July 23rd, [1899] I was present myself at a ﬁre
walking ceremony in connection with a small Hindu temple, dedicated to the
goddess Draupati, at St. Thomas’ Mount, a Military Cantonment eight miles
south of Madras. The scene of action was a large open piece of ground
within a stone’s throw of the Cantonment railway station. In the middle of
this open space there was a raised platform of earth, about 4 feet high and
about 12 yards square, which I learned had been erected many years ago for
the express purpose of the ﬁre-walking ceremony, which takes place nearly
every year. The arrangements for the performance were extremely simple.
A shallow trench had been dug at one end of the platform. In this a ton of
wood and two cartloads of charcoal were burnt until the whole was one big
mass of glowing embers. The embers were then raked out of the trench and
spread evenly to a depth of 3 or 4 inches over a space, some 5 yards square,
marked out for that purpose in the centre of the platform. The trench, when
cleared of the embers, was partially ﬁlled with water, and all round the area
of red-hot cinders water was sprinkled freely. Just when everything seemed
ready, the noise of the procession of the idols from the temple was heard,
and soon the temple cars, with attendant priests and worshippers, were seen
wending their way amidst the braying of brass instruments and the vivid
glare of torches, across the railway line and through the dense crowd that
surrounded the platform. Arrived at the platform the cars were placed in a
row close alongside at the further end, where the ﬁre trench had been dug.
From here the idols, decked in gorgeous apparel, fanned by little acolytes,
and surmounted by huge yellow and gold umbrellas, overlooked the whole
scene of action. Then, when all the spectators were on the tiptoe of expecta
tion, the pujari, or chief priest, after seeing that everything was in order,
walked through the glowing embers towards the idols in measured steps and
quite calmly, dipping his feet in the water in the trench at the other side.
Almost immediately afterwards there was a stir on the outskirts of the
densely packed crowd beneath, and a way was cleared for a band of some
50 devotees, who approached, chanting and shouting, up to the platform.
These men had all been preparing themselves for the ordeal for days before
hand—fasting and bathing and worshipping under the guidance of the priests
of the Draupati temple. The light of religious fervour was in their eyes and
their gestures and attitudes and cries all suggested the utmost nervous
excitement and enthusiasm. Ascending the platform by a ramp left for that
purpose, they paused for a moment at the edge of the ﬁre, and then, headed
by the pujari, they surged into the embers, some walking slow and some
fast, but none of them rushing through. At the farther side the ﬁre-walkers
dipped their feet in the trench and then put on new cloths which had been
brought for them by their relatives, who were waiting ready to receive them.
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1900.
The ﬁre-walkers were of all ages and several different castes. An interesting
feature of the performance was that a boy of about eight years also walked
over the ﬁre, while a still smaller child was hurried over, hanging on the
hand of its father. A few other performers, too, carried children across on
their shoulders. It was certainly a weird sight, and one that I shall never
forget. I saw every single incident of the performance, for there was a full
moon at the time, and ﬂaring torches also lit up the scene. I stood, too, on
a bench close to the ramp of the platform, above and not more than a few
yards from the ﬁre area itself. After the performance I went and stood over
the embers, and the heat was absolutely unbearable for more than a second
or two. What struck me most was that the glowing embers were loose, not
beatened down or ﬂattened in any way ; and the feet of the ﬁre-walkers, as
they went through, actually sank into the bed of loose ﬁre. This was par
ticularly noticeable in the case of the pujari during his ﬁrst cahn and
deliberate passage. Neither he nor any of the devotees lifted their feet
high : they seemed rather to wade through the ﬁre, as through shallow water.
I confess I was completely nonplussed ; for the theory that the protection is
due merely to the hardness of the soles of the devotees’ feet was obviously
untenable under the circumstances.
A few of those who took part in the ceremony were interviewed subse
quently as to whether they felt any pain in walking over the ﬁre, or whether
they protected their feet by rubbing them with any juice of plants, as
asserted by some people. The suggestion was received with resentment and
considered profane. One young man asked in astonishment what greater pro
tection could be needed than the protection of the goddess. He explained,
however, that the majority of the performers at the time of the actual ﬁre
walking are beside themselves with religious fervour and feel absolutely no
burning sensation while crossing the ﬁre. In the fulness of their faith any
mishap in the process is attributed by the devotees to their own frailties
rather than to any want of saving power in the goddess, and they gave
instances of accidents in past years to peoplewho did not abide by all the
rules necessary to be observed for a safe fulﬁlment of the vow.
An account of the Fire Walk at St. Thomas’ Mount almost
identical with the above appeared in The Mission Field for February,
1900, under the title of “Fire-Walking in Madras. By a Brahmin
Eye-witness.” From a foot-note it appears that the account was
reprinted from the Madras Mail of July 24th, 1899, of which paper,
as already stated, Mr. Beauchamp has been Editor for many years.
In reply to inquiries about this account and the cases referred to at
the beginning of his own article, Mr. Beauchamp writes :—
Teignmouth, S. Devon, August 1st, 1900.
MADAM,—I have received your letter re my ﬁre-walking experiences.
The date of the ceremony I witnessed was July 23rd, 1899.
The similarity between my paper and the account of the Brahmin arose
in this way. The Brahmin in question is one of my shorthand reporters on
Nov,. 1900.] Fire-Walking Ceremonies in India. 317
the Madras Mad staff—a man of remarkable intelligence and learning. I
took him with me when I went to the ceremony, and being very busy myself
told him to write an account for next day’s issue of the Madras Mail. This
he did, and I “ touched up” the style of his MS. and added a few sentences
of my own, though all the facts were correctly stated by him, and I did not
alter them in any way, as we were both in absolute agreement about all of
them. In writing my own paper, about three weeks later, I drew upon his
account to the extent noticed by you.
I cannot give you the exact references to the account of the Benares
ceremony: but it appeared in the Pioneer newspaper, published at Alla
habad, “from an eye-witness,” and was written, I believe, either by Dr.
Pascal or by some other member of the Theosophical Society, several of the
leaders of which were then at Benares, including Colonel Olcott, who on
subsequent inquiry from me, conﬁrmed the facts as stated. I wrote to
Colonel O. asking him if there any photos of the ceremony to be had, as I
wanted to write an illustrated paper, and enclosed I send his reply, which
please return to me.
With regard to the English missionary’s account, it appeared in the
Madi~as Mail shortly after the Benares ceremony, and was written by a well
known and very intelligent Wesleyan, who has made a close study of
Hindu customs. I enclose the full account that he sent me for the Madras
Ildail.
I also send another account of another ﬁre-walking ceremony near
Madras, witnessed and described by the same Brahmin who described the
one at Alandur (St. Thomas’ Mount).
I may mention that my wife was with me at the ceremony; also Captain W.
E. Norris (Suffolk Regt.), now secretary of the Madras Club, and Mrs. Norris.
I shall be glad to answer any further questions you may wish to ask.—
Yours truly’ HENRY BEAUCrmMP.
The following is the missionary’s account sent by Mr. Beauchamp :
From certain paragraphs which have appeared in some of the papers in
the North-West Provinces, I see that the minds of some people have been
not a little exercised by the performance of some devotees, who not only
walked over ﬁre themselves, but led some of the spectators to do the same.
I cannot enter into the question of what really took place on that occasion,
because there is a want of prosaic matter-of-fact about the accounts that I
have seen, and it is risky to criticise the statements of enthusiasts. But
even the Madras Presidency has its ﬁre-walkers, and not very many years
ago, nor very far from Madras, I saw a spectacle that was very interesting ;
but the onlookers discreetly took no part in the performance.
In a village called Sélei, in the Tiruvallur Taluq, or else at the next village
called Dundkanpettei—I forget at which of the two—there was a little Saivite
temple that lacked name and fame, and it was to secure these and the favour
of the goddess, Varakhiyamman, that the ﬁre-festival was held. I remember
riding over with the idea that I was about to see a palpable fraud, but just
outside the village, by the temple, there was such a bonﬁre blazing, that it
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 190 .
was clear that there was to be very genuine ﬁre. The hearth was a six-sided
and shallow excavation, and seemed to be fourteen or sixteen feet across.
When I reached it, about four o’clock in the afternoon of a hot July day, a.
great pile of logs was ﬂaming in the centre of this pit. There was a long
delay before the ceremonial commenced, and we were told that the ﬁre
walkers were preparing themselves for the ordeal. At last, about half-past
ﬁve or six o’clock, a procession emerged from the courts of the temple. This
consisted of the usual drums and clarionets and a most skilful dancer. This
man poised a huge painted jar on his head, and danced backwards and
forwards, whirled round on his toes, and even climbed on to the shoulders of
his attendants, keeping the great pot most beautifully balanced on his head
all the time. Every moment it seemed as though a hasty movement must
bring it to the ground with a crash, but the dancer’s skill was perfect, and
the jar remained in equilibrium, no matter how his body swayed. This man
was supposed to be ﬁlled with the spirit of the goddess, and the crowd was
immensely impressed. A priest of the temple then recited some long and
tedious psalms in praise of the goddess, and besought her to protect her
devotees in the penance they were about to perform. The dancer with the
jar on his head never stopped at all.
Meanwhile some of the temple servants had broken up the ﬁre of logs,
and spread the glowing ashes over the whole of the hearth, so that it looked
like a little lake of ﬁre. Over this they scattered powdered charcoal, and.
then, taking the leaves of the palmyra for fans, they vigorously fanned the
glowing surface till it quivered almost at white heat. Others poured jars of
water on the earth at each side of the hearth, so that on each side of the
hearth there was a pool of wet mud. Then with a frantic blare of horns and
a great crash of music and drums, a new procession came from the little
Saivite temple. This contained the man with the jar, who still poised it on
his head, several others dressed in the dirty salmon-coloured dress of the
professed devotee, and the veiled image of the goddess riding on a car shaped
like a griﬂin, and shaded by great scarlet umbrellas. This procession was
the one for which there had been so much waiting, and the crowd edged in
towards the hearth to get as clear a view as possible of what took place.
The devotees and the attendants of the goddess marched round the glowing
hearth once, partly to allow the multitude to see them all, and partly, as I
thought, that they might step in the mud puddles that had been so thought
fully prepared. In this way a thin coat of mud formed on the soles of their
feet. Having completed their circuit of the ﬁre, the whole party, including
the man with the jar, and the image of the goddess, rushed across the glow
ing surface, starting from the mud on one side, and landing in the mud on
the other. I noticed this, and I noticed, too, that they darted over as
quickly as possible. Again they went round, and amid great enthusiam and
immense shouting from the excited crowd, and with the name of the goddess
on their lips, they ﬂed across a second and a third time, and then went back
to the temple. As far as I could tell, none of them were hurt.
Now, I do not think that there was any fraud or deception about what
was done; but on the other hand, there was not anything very wonderful
Nov., 1900.] Fire- Walking Ceremonies in India. 319
about it, and owing to the courtesy of a Hindu ofﬁcial, I had a very good
opportunity of seeing all that was to be seen. It is very unlikely that any
one of those who passed over the ﬁre had ever worn shoes in his life. The
soles of their feet were as tough as leather. Moreover, their long journeys
on white dusty roads—roads so hot under the Indian sun that a European’s
foot would be blistered from toe to heel before he had walked a furlong on
them—had necessarily deadened the sense of heat. And the opportune mud
puddles, and the dust round the hearth, must have been some protection to
them in their short, very short, journey across the ﬁre.
We give next the account of the Brahmin eye-witness, dated August
21st, 1899.
“FIRE-WALKING” AT PERALUR.
Last evening another interesting “ ﬁre-walking ” ceremony took place in
the village of Peralur, within a furlong of the Perambur Railway Workshop,
the goddess in whose honour the ceremony was observed being known as
Thanthoni Amman, the tutelary deity of the village of Peralur. Though, as
was recently explained by a Brahmin correspondent in these columns, “ ﬁre
walking” is generally held in honour of Draupati, still in several South
Indian villages the saving power of the heroine of the Mahabharata is
attributed by people also to their respective local goddesses, and ﬁre-walking
ceremonies are held also in their honour periodically. Since the mytho
logical origin of these ceremonies has already been described in connection
with the ceremony held recently at Alandur, near St. Thomas’ Mount, there
is no need to repeat it here.
The “ ﬁre-walking ” itself was done at Peralur in much the same manner
as at Alanpur. A large piece of level ground opposite the Thanthoni Amman
temple was formed into an enclosure, in the middle of which a shallow pit
nearly 16 feet square was dug. In the centre of this pit over three tons of
fuel was formed into a heap and set ﬁre to about 4 o’clock in the afternoon,
the ﬂame being kept well fed from this hour till near the hour of the actual
ceremony. A Dubash of a leading ﬁrm of European merchants in Madras
provided a ton of fuel for this ceremony, as a vow he had taken in the name
of Thanthoni Amman was fulﬁlled to his entire satisfaction, through the
power, he believes, of the goddess.
From an early hour in the afternoon hundreds of village folk began to
gather about the scene of the ceremony, and about 9 o’clock the procession
of the goddess, who was‘ seated on a grandly decorated conveyance, started
from the temple to where the ﬁre-walkers—otherwise known as kumara
makkal—were assembled, to conduct them to the ﬁre pit. The party of
ﬁre-walkers, who, it must be remarked by the way, were in no sense “pro
fessionals,” met the procession about half-way in advance and escorted the
goddess to the ﬁre pit, accompanied by hundreds of villagers. A noteworthy
feature of last night’s ceremony was that the party of ﬁre-walkers included
among them a product of modern English education. Mr. Rajagopal
Moodelliar, who is well known as an excellent cricketer and tennis player in
Madras, and who till recently was a teacher in Pachaiyappa’s College, was
among those who took part in the actual ﬁre-walking. He was, as it were,
320 Journal of Society for Psychlca-l Research. [Nov., 1900.
leader of the party and carried a koragam, or gorgeously decorated pot, over
his head. The procession ﬁrst went round the enclosure and then entered
it by an opening on the western side. The goddess, seated on the convey
ance and supported by a number of bearers, stood at the entrance, while the
ﬁre-walkers went round the pit to a spot just opposite the place where the
goddess was seated. From there they entered the pit, which had by this
time been well ﬁlled with the glowing cinders evenly spread over it about
three inches deep, and walked over them to the other side, where, however,
unlike at Alandur, there was no puddle of water to wet their feet in. They
again went round to the other side, walking over the ordinary ground by the
side, and crossed the ﬁre pit again. They repeated this for a third time,
after which the goddess left the place and was carried in procession round
the principal streets of the village.
There were twenty-ﬁve people in all who walked over the ﬁre yesterday,
about ten of whom were boys ranging between ten and sixteen years of age,
who went through the ﬁre unaided by their elders. There was also one
old man nearly seventy years of age. While at Alandur the party were
reported to have gone over the red-hot cinders only once, at Peralur they
walked through the ﬁre not fewer than three times. A young boy, however,
tripped and fell down, but succeeded in getting up immediately and was
found to be none the worse for the accident. Within a few minutes after
the ﬁre-walking was over, one of the party, when questioned about the effect
of the ﬁre on his feet, replied with quite a cheerful face that it had had
absolutely no effect, a statement amply supported by an examination of his
feet, which bore no marks of burning.
Another important point of difference between the Alandur ceremony
and the Peralur one was that, while at Alandur the permission and sanction
of the goddess to conduct the ceremony was obtained or ascertained by
means of several tests, at Peralur a direct appeal was made to the goddess
by the pujcwl in the presence of the assembled villagers. The pujari sang
the praises of the goddess for some hours before she (as it was said) de
scended on one of her favourite devotees, and through his mouth gave them
words of assurance that all would go well with them in connection with the
ﬁre-walking. At one stage of the Peralur celebration the people had almost
abandoned the idea of performing the ceremony, as it was feared that the
goddess would be slow to sanction it, owing to some hitch in the perform
ance. To the immense satisfaction and relief of the villagers, the goddess,
however, gave them assurance of protection a few hours before the actual
ﬁre-walking and enabled them to bring the ceremony to a successful
termination.
From the ﬁre pit to the cricket ﬁeld is a long jump, and Mr. Rajagopal
Moodelliar, who took part in last night’s ﬁre-walking, plays at to-day’s
cricket match at Chepauk. His ﬁre-walking performance is one instance
which goes to establish the truth of the observation often made, that the
average Hindu, while keeping abreast of modern times and beneﬁting by
the civilising agencies of the West, holds fast to his ancient superstitious
practices.
Nov.,1900.] Fire-Walking Cereonontes in India. 321
Of the numerous accounts of the Fire Walk in different countries
which have been published, a few are provided with illustrations repro
duced from photographs of the scene. That these are not, however,
always to be relied on as infallible testimony of what was taking
place at the moment is suggested by Colonel Olcott’s reply to Mr.
Beauchamp’s inquiry about photographs, which was as follows :—
Theosophical Society, Adyar, -Madras, July 6th, 1899.
DEAR MR. BEAUCHAMP,—I have never seen a photo of the ﬁre-treading
ceremony, and I fancy there is none. It would have to be taken by ﬂash
light. But Harmsworth’s people can easily make up one from the descrip
tions given in the press. A trench with ends sloping upward, a bed of
glowing embers reﬂecting its light upward on the bronzed faces and ﬁgures ;
a wild, naked yogi, naked to the langouti, ﬂinging his arms about and con
torting his face like a lunatic, dancing through the brasier and followed by
an equally excited throng of Hindus, some rushing through and kicking up
the embers as they run, some walking quietly and observing their sensation
(like Dr. Pascal, of France, who did just that and without being scorched).
The scene, as we saw it at Benares, is most picturesque and would make two-
or three ﬁne illustrations. Let the artist remember that there is no smoke
nor ﬂame at the time of the ceremony, nothing but live coals. It just
happens that we have a good article on this subject in the July Theosophist
by an Australian veteran journalist, so I send you a copy. If Harmsworth
will pay the cost, he can have a ﬁre-treading function almost any time and
arrange locally for photographing it by applying to Professor A. Richardson,
Principal, Hindu Central College, Benares. R. is a well-known English
professor of chemistry, for twelve years at Bristol University College. . .
The same Hindu gentleman who got up the tarosta for us last October might
be induced to do it for Harmsworth and you if you asked.—Yours truly,
H. S. OLCoTT.
A vivid description of the rite as practised in Japan is given by
Mr. Percival Lowell in his book, Occult Japan (pp. 48—62). On the
occasion when he witnessed it, the ﬁre was sprinkled with a large
quantity of salt by the priests, and a mat at either end of it was
spread with salt, in which they rubbed their feet before entering the
ﬁre. After the priests had passed through, many of the bystanders
followed them. The salt, no doubt, as the priests admitted, mitigated
the heat to some extent, and, as Mr. Lowell observes, “the far
Oriental inherits a much less sensitive nervous organisation than is
the birthright of a European, and his cuticle is further calloused to
something not unlike leather by constant exposed use.” Still, he says,
“ it is not open to [the looker-on] to doubt the difference of perception
of that heat in the man’s normal and abnormal states of conscious
ness,”—the feat being performed in a state of abnormal excitement.
322 Journal of Society _for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1900.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by Corresponde-nta]
DR. LEHMxnrfs CRITICIsMs oF SIR WILLIAM CRoomzs’ EXPERIMENTs
wrTH D. D. HoME.*
38, Sergievskaia, St. Petersburg, September 8th, 1900.
A foot-note in Professor Flournoy’s book, Des Indes (1 la planéte Mars,
having called my attention to some criticisms of Sir W. Crookes’ celebrated
experiments with Home, made in Professor Lehmann’s Aberglaube nnd
Zauberei (pp. 271—273), I have found these critical remarks of suﬂicient
interest to lay them in an abridged form before the readers of our Journal ;
—not, be it understood, because I must be supposed to agree with them,
but merely because it seems to me highly desirable that an authoritative
reply should be, if possible, made to them by persons more competent than
myself.
Sir W. Crookes’s experiments with D. D. Home have hitherto been
justly considered as the foundation stone of the evidence in support of the
reality of the so-called “ Physical Phenomena," and it is noteworthy that
not even so severe a critic as Mr. F. Podmore (in Studies in Psychical
Resea/rch) does ﬁnd fault with them. Therefore it is the more to be wished,
it seems to me, that an authoritative refutation of Dr. Lehmann’s criticisms
should be forthcoming.
The Danish savant begins by quoting from the Quarterly Jonmml of
Science for 1871 Sir W. Crookes’ account of his ﬁrst experiments (on the
alteration in weight of a partially suspended board and of the accordion
experiment), and says that, as then described by Sir W. Crookes, they
seemed to have been rigorously scientiﬁc and most carefully planned. The
apparatuses had been devised and applied by Sir W. Crookes himself, D. D.
Home merely playing the part of a dynamic machine which can be placed
hither and thither so as to be tried under different conditions. The room
seemed to be suﬂiciently lighted for everything that was going on to be
visible, and many competent scientists were apparently watching the course
of the experiments.
“ There seem to be here evidently all possible guarantees that the results
-obtained were perfectly reliable,” adds Professor Lehmann ; and he further
says: “Such a supposition [that of fraud] seems to be altogether out of
place so far as the experiments here described are concerned, if it be
admitted that this description be corTect.
“But this is precisely not the case. On the contrary, so much is it the
production of Crookes’ fancy, that it could be adduced as evidence of the fact
-that a scientist who is prominent in his own sphere may become the victim
of self-delusion when he dares enter another which he does not know.
Such an assertion might, of course, seem very rash had not Crookes himself
supplied us with proofs of its justice. Eighteen years after this ﬁrst account
* For further discussion of the same subject, see Mr. F. C. S. Schillor’s review of
Dr. Lehmann’s Aberglaubc and Za/uberei in Proceecltngs, Part XXXVIIL, p. 437.
Nov., 1900.] Correspondence. 323
he gave another description of those same experiments, from which it
appears that the whole thing looked somewhat different. Every one who
reads the above quoted accounts of 1871 will be under the impression that
the said experiments were made at a few séances where everything went on
quite smoothly. Men of science are superintending everything; there are
no intervals, no hindrances, no unsuccessful experiments, no suspicious
movements on Home’s part; his psychic force is acting as exactly as if it
were not proceeding from a man, but from a well-arranged machine. But
when you read Crookes’ notes on these experiments in his diary, the
impression will be undoubtedly different. These notes, which were partly
made during the sittings, partly directly after, were published by Crookes in
the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, Part XV. (Vol. VI.),
1889. A small extract only from his notes is published there; but the
sittings mentioned are described in every detail.”
Professor Lehmann then reproduces Sir W. Crookes’ account of a part
of the sitting of June 21st, 1871* (Proceedings S.P.R., Part XV., pp. 110,
111, up to line 12) and proceeds as follows :—
“ Some other remarkable things took place at the same séance, but they
have less interest; for us it is only important to know under what conditions
the experiments with the above-mentioned apparatus were made. As for
that, we have received suﬂicient indications, which are very instructive, in
one respect at least. I shall only add that the sitting just described has
been chosen from among others at random and may be considered quite
typical. What happened there had happened at all previous séances, notes
of which have been published by Crookes. It is easy to see that the notes
of this diary present us with an altogether different picture of the experi
ments from the previous accounts. Many of the sittings, or at least some
parts of them, were almost dark séances ; this term may be applied to them,
as only those sitting nearest [to the medium] could watch what was going on.
We see further that it was by no means Crookes, but Home, who directed
the experiments by his orders. Crookes and the other sitters only obey and
keep the seats which have been assigned to them until something takes place.
Home, on the contrary, walks freely about, comes to the apparatuses of his
own accord, moves his chair, etc.” ~
Professor Lehmann also points out that now the gas is turned low, now
the reverse ; that the hands of the sitters have to be sometimes on the table
and sometimes not, and concludes: “All this shows that these famous
Crookes’ séances are in no wise different from other spiritistic séances.
. . . This is at any rate true (he further says) with regard to those sittings,
the original notes of which have been published by Crookes. It is possible
that he may have made other experiments besides which were carried on
under more reliable conditions. Still it is improbable that he should have
chosen from among his notes those least convincing, whilst omitting the con
clusive ones. We are therefore fully entitled to conclude that all his experi
ments were made at séances which were of a character completely similar to
* Apparently the one described in the Quarterly Journal of Science for October,
1871.
324 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov-, 1900.
those described above. Consequently his ﬁrst account, that of 1871, is no
exact description of what really occurred, but merely an abstract in which
only certain deﬁnite phenomena are mentioned, all accompanying accessory
circumstances being omitted. We shall not examine here precisely how far
those things which Crookes thought it possible not to insert in his account
may have been important. . . . _Here we note two facts only : (1) Crookes’
experiments are not strictly scient1ﬁc lnvestigations; they were made at
common spiritistic séances, and precisely in such a way as suited the medium
who played the leader’s part. . . . (2) Crookes had hardly suspected all the
importance of the circumstances which he passed under silence in the
account of 1871. Otherwise he could never have given the description
above quoted without committing an act of conscious deception.”
Believing, as I do, that Sir W. Crookes did observe supernormal phe
nomena with the late D. D. Home, I cannot but see with much regret such
criticisms as those of Professor Lehmann approvingly quoted by other savants
otherwise favourably disposed even towards the “ Physical Phenomena of
Spiritualism,” like, e.g., Professor Flournoy. Surely this is enough to show
that those criticisms have not passed unnoticed ; surely it is worth while for
those most concerned if possible to kill in the bud the rising legend of the un
reliability of Sir W. Crookes’ experiments with D. D. Home—that alpha and
omeqa of the scientiﬁc evidence in the question of mediumistic phenomena.
Professor Lehmann’s criticisms have more than once proved unfounded * ; I
trust they will prove once more so in the present case.
[To Mr. Solovovo’s letter, Sir William Crookes allows us to add the
following note :—]
M. PrrTRovo SoLovovo.
For nearly twenty-ﬁve years I have been attacked on account of these
experiments, and 1 have not replied. All the attacks I have seen have been
criticisms of one or two isolated experiments or statements I made, with an
entire avoidance of other passages which would explain the former. They
have been written more with the object of showing I was wrong and
untrustworthy than with the object of getting at the real truth. From what
I have read, Dr. Lehmann’s criticisms appear to be of the same character.
When the “ higher criticism” appears, in which all I have written on the
subject is compared, collated and reviewed, I have no anxiety as to the result.
WILLIAM CRooKEs. .
_—————_——~_~
* I may refer the reader, e.g., to Proceedings, Vol. XII., pp. 298-314, where
certain criticisms of his directed against Professor and Mrs. SidgwIck’s thought-trans
ference experiments are concluswely disposed of by Professor Sidgwick. And to
return to the subject that concerns us now : it is obvious that Professor Lehmann s
disparaging remarks cannot aﬁect Sir W. Crookes’ very first experiments (those
described in the July number of_the_Qum-terly Journal of Science for 1871) since no
reference to them isto be found in SIr VV. Crookes’ Notes published in Proceedings,
Vol, V1,, Part XV.,_1889, and smce we have for the sitting in question Serjeant
0o,55 and Dr. Huggms’ corroboration. Still this does not ap arently prevent Pro
fessor Leh1nann from considering that his criticisms apply to t at sitting also. An
instance of the same savanfs inaccuracy is afforded, by the way, by another passage in
Aberglaubc und Zauberie, where he incidentally remarks that Slade has himself
admitted the fraudulent character of all his manifestations, including the Leipzig experi
ments, and refers the reader to I_"r0cecd1"ngs S.P.R., Vol. V., p. 261 (which I ﬁnd is
Mr. Myers’ quotation of a passage In_the Seybert Commission’s Report on Spiritualism).
I have no particular sympath With Slade, but I still think that here Professor
Lehmann’s statement on a su ject so calculated to impress the reader's mind is
strangely inaccurate.
No. CLXXIV.—VoL. IX. DECEMBER, 1900.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYGHIGAL RESEARCH.
_ CoNTENTS. PAGE
New Members and Associates . . .. .. . . . . .. .. .. . . .. 325
Meetings of the Council .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 326
General Meetings .. .. .. . . .. . . . . . . .. .. .. . . 327
A Novel Use of the Dowsing Rod. By Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.s. . . . . . . 328
Case .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 381
Automatic Phenomena in a Case of Hysteria .. . . .. . . . . .. . . . . 333
supplementary Library Catalogue .. . . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. 339
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Mernbers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALs.
BANNoN, MRs., 1, Hyde Park-terrace, London, W.
Barclay, Edwyn, Urie Lodge, Ridgway, Wimbledon.
BEHRENs, HARoLD L., West View, Victoria Park, Manchester.
BEsT, MRs. J. RYCRoFT, 7, Royal Well-terrace, Cheltenham.
BHIsE, SHANKER ABAJI, F.S.Sc., A.S.A.(Lond.), c/o the Society of
Architects, St. James’s Hall, Piccadilly, London, W.
CoWAsJEE, BoMANJEE, 62, Avenue-road, Crouch End, N.
CoXE, HENRY R. H., Indian Civil Service, United Service Club,
Calcutta.
GREENE, REv. HENRY, M.A., St. John’s Vicarage, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
HUNT, G. ANGUs, M.R.C.S. (Eng.), Stoneleigh House, Clissold Park,
London, N.
LEIGHToN, D. E. W., Madras Club, Madras.
MoULTRIE, MIss AMY J. C., 4-4, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
PEACoCK, EDWIN, Hazlemere, Nuneaton.
RICKARD, VVILLIAM T., 14, Maitland-street, Beeston Hill, Leeds.
Rumsey, Mrs. Almaric, 1, Allison Gardens, Dulwich Common, S.E.
WHITE, MRs., 133, Lordship-road, Stoke Newington, N.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BRooKs, M1ss T., Box 176, Farmington, Conn.
BUTIN, DR. J. L., B-street, Madera, Cal.
OARRINGToN, HERE\VARD, 622, Nicollet-avenue, Minneapolis, Minn.
CoLL1Ns, WILLIAM G., 330, West 108th-street, New York, N.Y.
DEs IsLETs, PRoFEssoR C. M., 69, VVilson-avenue, Allegheny, Pa.
326 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Reseu/1'cl1.. [Dmc., 1900.
Donns, W. H., 518, Fourth-avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.
}RAN'r, MRs. LINCoLN, 223, Aspinwallavenue, Brookline, Mass.
HANNA, CARL L. 64, Chandler-street, Boston, Mass.
HEBARD, CHARLEs, M.D., Mondori, Wis.
HoTCHKIss, MRs. E. HUBBELL, 4, Arch-street, Norwalk, Conn.
HUsTED, A. D., M.D., 73, Allen-street, Pittsburg, Pa.
JoNEs, C. H., c/o J. P. Willis and Bro., Galveston, Texas.
NEELI), A. D., 1300. Locust-street, Allegheny, Pa.
SMITH, W. J., 345, Sixth-avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.
TAYLoR, REv. ELBERT B., The Rectory, Westminster, Maryland.
TUCKER, JAMEs W., Cooperstown, New York.
WADswoR'rH. E. A., Grinnell, Iowa.
WEEKS, RvFUs W., Pocantico Hills, NJ.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
Meetings of the Council were held at the Westminster Town Hall
on Monday, October 29th, and on Friday, November 16th. At the
ﬁrst, Mr. H. Arthur Smith was voted to the chair, and there were
also present, Professor W. F. Barrett, Dr. Oliver Lodge, Mr. C. F. G.
Masterman, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. Geo. Lane Fox Pitt, Mr.
F. Podmore, Dr. C. L. Tuckey, and Dr. A. Wallace. At the meeting
on November 16th, the President occupied the chair, and there were
also present, the Hon. E. Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F.
Podmore, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Dr. C. L.
Tuckey, and Dr. A. Wallace.
At each meeting the minutes of the previous one were read and
signed as correct.
At the two meetings two new Members and thirteen new Asso
ciates were elected ; and the election of eighteen new Associates of the
American Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given
above.
The Council recorded with great regret the death of the Marquis
of Bute, who was a Vice-President of the Society, and who had taken
a deep interest in various bTanches of its work. An Obituary Notice
has already appeared in the Journal.
PRoFEssoR BARRETT brought forward a suggestion that it would be
desirable that Local Centres of S.P.R. work should be formed, and
that the Council should approve of the reading of Papers at the
meetings of such Local Centres before they were read at the General
Meetings of the Society. The subject was informally discussed, and it
Dsc., 1900.] General Meetings. 327
was suggested that Professor Barrett should bring forward a deﬁnite
proposal for Dublin.
Dates were provisionally ﬁxed for four General Meetings, subse
quent to that already arranged for December 14th at 8.30 p.m., subject
to the completion of the agreement with the newly constituted West
minster City Council.
It was agreed that the next Meeting of the Council should be held
at 19, Buckingham-street, on Friday, December 14th, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 108th General Meeting of the Society was held in the West
minster Town Hall on Monday, October 29th, at 4 p.m. ; Mr. H.
Arthur Smith in the chair.
The papers announced for this meeting were postponed on account
of Mr. Myers being prevented by illness from coming to London and
of diﬂiculties caused by the march of the City Imperial Volunteers
through London on that day.
At the request of the Council, therefore, PRoFEssoR W. F. BARRETT
kindly gave an account of some of his investigations into the Divining
Rod, quoting a few of the most striking cases of the ﬁnding of water
by this means which have appeared in his paper on the subject in the
Part of Proceedings just published.
A brief discussion followed, in which Mr. F. W. Hayes, Mr. Bishop,
Mr. E. Feilding and others took part.
The 109th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
November 16th, at 4 p.m., the PREsIDENT, MR. F. W. H. MYERS, in
the chair.
A paper entitled “A Case of Multiple Personality,” by DR.
MoRToN PRINCE, was read by MR. J. G. PIDDINGToN. This paper
embodies the results of several years’ careful and detailed study of one
of the most remarkable cases of alternating personalities on record.
The subject is a patient of Dr. Prince’s, and some of her experiences
in crystal-visions are related in his paper on the “ Experimental Study
of Visions,” extracts from which were given in Proceedings, Vol. XIV.,
pp. 366 to 372. The present paper will, it is hoped, appear before the
end of the year in Proceedings, Part XL.
The PREsIDENT then gave an address “In Memory of Henry
Sidgwick,” which will be published at once in a small Part of Proceed
ings. This was followed by some remarks communicated by DR.
OLIvER LoDGE.
328 Journal of Society for Ps;z/ch1lca,t Research. [Dsc.,1900.
A NOVEL USE OF THE DOWSING ROD.
BY PRoFEssoR W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.
The following interesting case of the use of the dowsing rod for
the discovery of a leak in an underground water-pipe reached me too
late for insertion in my recently published monograph on the so-called
divining rod. Those of my readers who may have read that paper
will remember that the general conclusion arrived at was that the
success of a good dowser depended upon his possessing a faculty
analogous to clairvog/once ; a subconscious transcendental perceptive
power, which manifests itself through the involuntary motion of the
dowsing rod, or by a peculiar malaise (a psycho-physiological disturb
ance), of the dowser. This being so, We should not be surprised if
the dowser were able to discover the position of a leak, or other
hidden object, as well as an underground mineral lode or water supply.
The following case conﬁrms this supposition.
My informant, Mr. Young, whom I know personally, is a member
of the S.P.R. and a very successful amateur dowser, animated with
a truly scientiﬁc spirit. Mr. Young writes to me as follows :
New Road, Llanelly, South Wales, September 26th, 1900.
A well-known local physician (Dr. Roderick) has recently removed to a.
new house (an old mansion partly rebuilt) named “ Vaux Hall.” Ever since
he has taken it there has been an escape of water from some pipe bursting,
which produced a hissing sound, as the water pressure is great. Though the
sound was heard, neither the doctor nor the workman could locate where the
leak was, and as the hissing was heard wherever a pipe was laid in the house
it became a constant annoyance. One day Dr. Roderick suggested that the
rod might locate the leak and asked me to try. I did so, and walked along
the carriage road, trying ﬁrst with my hands and afterwards with the rod.
Both indicated the same spot.* Upon opening the road at the place indicated
it proved to be correct, a branch pipe being partly broken away from the
inlet pipe at the joint. I daresay Dr. Roderick would give you conﬁrmation
of this if it will be of any service to you. J F YoUNG
In reply to my inquiries, Dr. Roderick writes to me as follows :—
V-aux Hall, Llanelly, South Wales, October 12th, 1900.
The plumbers in order to ﬁnd the leak in the water pipe took one w.c. to
pieces, and not ﬁnding it here cut the main pipe in two places and were still
unsuccessful. They contemplated tracing the whole length of pipe for
a distance of about 20 yards, but Mr. Young came to my assistance,
fortunately.
* Mr. Young, like several other dowsers, can dispense with the use of the rod
altogether, the indication being afforded by the particular sensation he experiences.
—W. F. B.
DEc., 1900.] A Novel Use of the Dowsing Rod. 329
I told Mr. Young the course of the pipe to my mind, but in this I was
wrong, for he located the possible leak some feet away to one side. I was not
satisﬁed and dug down close to a tap where the sound of rushing water could ’
be heard distinctly—this would be about 4ft. from the place located by Mr.
Young. We found water trickling into the dug hole and coming from the
direction of the marked place.
At this stage a disturbance took place between Mr. Young and the
plumbers, the latter persons holding that the leak was some distance off.
I, being the chief interested party, ordered the ground to be dug at the
mark made by Mr. Young, with the result that a big leak was discovered.
There was a very slight depression on the surface where the leak was,' but
Mr. Young located the spot by night and again in the morning.
The surface indication of the leak neither I nor the plumbers noticed till
the digging commenced, and I am certain Mr. Young could not have felt
it in the dark.
I used to be very sceptical regarding water divining, but I have seen so
many evidences in its favour that I have convinced myself there is some
thmg in it‘ SYDNEY J. RonRR1CK.
I wrote to Mr. Young to inquire whether it was possible to have
been guided to the position of the leak by a conscious or subconscious
detection of the sound made by the issuing water: or whether the
slight surface depression, referred to by Dr. Roderick, could have led
to its discovery. Mr. Young replies as follows :—
Llanelly, October 15th.
No amount of listening could have ever found the leak, as the sound
ceased outside the building or as soon as the pipes were under the soil. It
was very loud in the box containing the stopcock from street main, but
ceased as it entered the soil. Then as to outward indications, the road was
rough, loose, thoroughly out of repair, not having been used for two years ;
and although plumber and man searched for signs they failed. Their reason
for failing to ﬁnd any outward evidence they asserted was because it was
“ made ground,” viz., made up of débris, such as slag, rubble, etc.
But supposing there were surface indications, [when I tried] it was dark,
and if there were any I could not have seen them. In fact it was so dark that
the doctor cautioned me not to fall into a hole which was left in the road, so
that neither sight nor hearing had anything whatever to do with the result.
J. F. YoUNG.
I also wrote to Dr. Roderick to ask if it were possible to have
detected the position of the leak by conduction of sound, and whether
I might publish his letters : he replies as follows :
Vaux Hall, Llanelly, South Wales, Oclober 19th, 1900.
You may make what use you like of the letter I wrote you respecting the
leak in the water pipe at my house.
330 Jowrnal of Society for Psych/teal .R68e(1/I'C}L. [Dnc., 1900.
The town water inspector in his usual rounds notiﬁed a leak, and said it
was in the w.c., with the result I have stated. He used an iron rod, placing
one end to his ear and the other on the pipe. The sound of rushing water
could be heard clearly at any portion of the pipe from the main to the cistern
at the top of the house. N0 sound could be heard by placing the iron rod or
stethoscope on the ground where Mr. Young located the leak.
SYDNEY J. RoDERICK.
If the foregoing case stood alone the most probable explanation of
it would be chance coincidence—a “lucky hit” on the part of Mr.
Young. But there are several cases of a similar kind. Mr. Young
himself some years ago found the position of a leak in the reservoir
of the town in which he lives, and the same spot was independently
indicated by another amateur dowser. The Chairman of the Quarter
Sessions for Herefordshire, Sir Richard Harington, Bart., happens to
be a successful amateur dowser, and has used the rod for the same
purpose. In front of his house a piece of artiﬁcial water runs parallel
to a brook, which is at a lower level, and Sir Richard Harington
informs me :—
Whitbourne Court, Worcester, October 29th, 1899.
It has occasionally happened that leakage into the brook has taken place
through rat holes and the like, the locality of which my servants have been
unable to discover. When this has been the case, I have used the divining
rod, which has always told me correctly where the leak was.
In my recent paper on the so-called divining rod, fuller particulars
of this case are given (Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXXVIIL, 2l4—2l6)
together with the following. “Mr. Westlake, F.G.S., has recently in
formed me of another case, Where the dowser, R. Pavey, of Cheddar,
did the same thing at the moat round the Bishop’s Palace at Wells.
An engineer was ﬁrst employed, and had spent £20 in trying to ﬁnd
the leak,' but failed. Pavey, though a stranger, found the leak at once,
and it was then stopped at a cost of a few shillings. Mr. Westlake
visited the place and ascertained the facts ; he states the engineer was
much impressed by Pavey’s success, as he, after careful and costly
examination of the place, had failed.”
As experiments of this kind afford a much easier test of the
dowser than the search for underground water, they are worth careful
repetition under strict supervision, and I hope some of our members
will be able to carry out similar tests and let me know the result. It
must, however, be borne in mind, as I have several times pointed out
in my Report, that the involuntary twisting of the forked rod which
occurs in the hands of certain persons is no proof that that person is a
good dowser. The automatic motion of the rod may be due to some
wholly misleading auto-suggestion, just as in automatic script the
DnC., 1900.] Case. 331
writing may be merely the unconscious expression of the automatist’s
own ideas. The automatist, whether he holds a forked twig or a
pencil, usually improves by practice; the conscious self becomes
more easily placed in abeyance, and the subconscious self learns
to respond to the proper stimulus, and to become oblivious of sug
gestion from normal sources. But the fact of fundamental importance
in a good dowser, if my suggested explanation be correct, is that he
should possess some transcendental perceptive power, that is, possess
more or less a clairvoyant faculty ; and this is a case of nascitu/r non
ﬁt. Only through some form of automatic action can the evidence of
this faculty be revealed; how far it exists among persons in the normal
state, experiments such as I have suggested with the rod may perhaps
enable us to ascertain. From the fact that really famous dowsers
during the whole of the past century can be numbered on the ﬁngers
of one hand, the rarity of this faculty might be inferred, were it not
that, so long as dowsers are considered either knaves or fools, the
number of persons likely to enter the lists is sure to be limited.
CASE.
L. 1122. Simultaneous Dreams.
The following case comes from an Associate of the Society who has
long been actively interested in psychical work and who is well known
to Mr. Myers and to the Editor. He prefers that his name should not
appear in connection with this case, which—it will be noted—was
recorded immediately after it occurred. The fact of the husband and
wife both dreaming of the same subject might, of course, be attributed
to a common preoccupation with it. But this does not account for
their dreaming of it at the same time. Mr. writes :—
October 11th, 1900.
I beg to send you a small but rather deﬁnite experience of thought
transference, which has just occurred to us. I have collected a number of
other people’s cases, but never had one of my own till now.
The account enclosed is as follows :— '
Sunday, October 7th, 1900.
I woke abruptly in the small hours of this morning with a painful con
viction upon me that my wife, who was that night sleeping in another part
of the house, had burst a varicose vein in the calf of her leg, and that I
could feel the swelled place, three inches long. I wondered whether I ought
to get up and go down to her room on the ﬁrst ﬂoor, and considered whether
she would be able to come up to me ; but I was only partly awake though in
acute distress. My mind had been suddenly roused, but my body was still
332 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dnc., 1900.
under the lethargy of sleep. I argued with myself that there would sure to
be nothing in it, that I should only disturb her, and so shortly went off to
sleep again.
On going to her room this morning I said I had had a horrid dream,
which had woke me up, to the effect that she had burst a varicose vein, of
which just now care has to be taken. “Why,” she replied, “ I had just
the same experience. I woke up at 2.15 feeling sure the calf of my leg was
bleeding, and my hand seemed to feel it wet when I put it there. I turned
on the light in alarm, noticing the time, and wondered if I should be able to
get up to thee, or whether I should have to wake the housekeeper. Thou
was in the dream, out of which I woke, examining the place.”
Though I did not note the hour, 2 o’clock is about the time I should have
guessed it to be; and the impression on my mind was vivid and terrible,
knowing how dangerous such an accident would be. It is the ﬁrst certain
case of thought-transference I have had. My wife’s account is being written
independently of this. -I regard her as the agent, myself the percipient,
and some pain in the leg the original source of the impression.
The other witness concerned in the case writes :—
[On the] night of October 6th, 1900, I went to bed about 11.0 ; the veins
of my left leg which are varicose were rather more painful than usual,
and the whole calf felt and looked lumpy.
I felt twinges of pain in it off and on in my sleep without being entirely
roused till about 2.15 a.m. Then, or just before, I dreamt or had a vivid
impression that a vein had burst, and that my husband, who was sleeping in
another room up another ﬂight of stairs, was there and called my attention to
it. I thought it felt wet and trickling down the leg as if bleeding, passed
my hand down and at ﬁrst thought it seemed wet, but on gaining fuller
consciousness found all right, and that it was not more painful than often
when I got out and stood on it. Thought over the contingency of its actually
bursting and whether I could so bandage it in that case as to make it safe to
go up to my husband’s room, and thought I could do so.
Looking at my watch found it about 2.20.
Almost immediately on my husband’s coming down, about 7.30 a. In., he
told me that he had wakened early in the night (about same time would be
early to him) with an impression that the vein in my leg had burst and was
bleeding ; that he had wondered if he should come down and thought over
whether I should be able to bandage it and go up to him, had decided I
could. “ It was just here,” he said, pointing on his own left leg to the
exact spot at the top of the calf where I have the most trouble.
In answer to a question as to the accuracy of Mrs. ’s recollec
tion that he had at the time debated within himself whether she
would be able to bandage her leg (a detail not mentioned in his own
account), Mr. writes :
October 22nd, 1900.
In response to your query, I certainly thought of my wife coming up
with her leg bandaged. It was part of my idea of her difﬁculties.
Dsc., 1900.] Automatic Phenomena in a Case of Hysteria. 333
AUTOMATIC PHENOMENA IN A CASE OF HYSTERIA.
The case here described was reported in an Italian pamphlet—now
extremely rare—written by Dr. Niccolo Cervello with the title, Storia
di un Caso d’Isterism0 con Sognazione Spontomea (Palermo, 1853),
being an account of his own observations of a hysteric patient. Mrs.
Whitaker, of the Villa Malﬁtano Palermo, Sicily, an Italian lady, well
known to Mr. Myers, has kindly furnished an abbreviated translation
of the pamphlet, which we print here.
The amenability of the patient to self-suggestion—as shown by the
accuracy with which her symptoms followed the course of her own
predictions—though very marked, is of course one of the most familiar
and characteristic features of the disease, and is only recorded here to
Complete the account of the case. Suggestibility was further shown
in the so-called “ transposition of the senses,” supervening on a remark
of one of her doctors on the subject. But the special interest of
the case from our point of view lies in the phenomena verging on the
supernormal—the alleged clairvoyance and speaking with unknown
tongues. It will be seen that the evidence for these phenomena is by
no means conclusive; since there is unfortunately a great lack of
detail in the record of them,—only two of the actual foreign words
said to have been used by the patient having been recorded, while the
-conventional dramatisations of the supposed different nationalities are
obviously within the normal capacity. We must, however, assume at
least a marked heightening of the ordinary faculties from the way in
which some of the parts were sustained throughout the time that
they were played, and the case is an interesting contribution to the
literature of “ pseudo-possession.”
Mrs. Whitaker prefaces her translation with the following note :—
I will ﬁrst say that the name of Dr. Niccolo Cervello is so well known in
Palermo,—as are also those of the many people both of note in the world of
science, and of good social standing, who bore testimony to the case,—as to
put any doubt of the veracity of the record beyond question. It is with
the most scrupulous care that each phase was noted. I may here mention
that Dr. Niccolo Cervello was the father of Professor Vincenzo Cervello,
who at the recent Congress of Berlin claimed to have found the cure of
tuberculosis, and whose discovery has been already recognised by the
French Académie des Sciences, of which he was made an honorary member.
The account of the case now follows :—
Ninfa Filiberto, of a respectable well-to-do family, well-educated, aged
sixteen, was ﬁrst seized with violent convulsions on December 26th, 1849;
she had from childhood been of a singularly nervous and sensitive tempera
ment, but had enjoyed good health, and had until then shown no signs of an
334 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dsc., 1900.
abnormal condition of mind. From that day she was troubled with ﬁts of
somnambulism, and from being of a bright joyous nature, she became
extremely melancholy, to such a degree that by the month of April she had
become very pale and emaciated, and complained of great pain in the region
of the liver, having also swollen feet. It was at this point that Dr. Cervello
was sent for, and seeing her extreme pallor, treated her for chlorosis. On
May 22nd she was again seized with convulsions, which generally left her
without consciousness. These convulsions lasted on and off for three days,
after which they ceased; to the disease of the liver, however, was added
pain at the heart. A violent attack of convulsions and pain, on June 27th,
was followed by a state of lethargy which lasted 20 hours. At the end of
this time the doctors thought it advisable-to wake the patient with a dose of
ammonia; this produced the wished-for result, but the poor girl was again
seized with such fearful convulsions as to put her life in jeopardy. Pains
between the shoulders, cough, and spitting of blood supervened; suddenly,
towards the end of July, in 24 hours all signs of illness disappeared ; she
again became gay and bright, and on August 9th Dr. Cervello received a
visit from her, with her parents, to thank him for all his kindness during her
very serious illness. Thus is brieﬂy recapitulated the ﬁrst or initiatory stage
of this curious malady.
Second Stage.
On August 10th the patient showed signs of melancholy, and towards the
afternoon was seized with violent pains in the left arm, which, however, did
not last long, but left the arm paralysed. On the following day, the same
thing happened, ﬁrst to one leg then to the other; delirium set in, and by
the 13th she no longer recognised her parents and relatives and only the
right arm could move freely. A consultation of ﬁve doctors was held, and
they agreed that it was a nervous disease, but all remedies failed to give
relief. On August 20th, after a ﬁt of abstraction, she said that she wished
to write ; at ﬁrst nothing could be made of her writings, but it was soon dis
covered that she wrote backwards, and this with a rapidity which astonished
all those present. Everything possible was done to brighten and cheer the
poor girl, and on the 22nd one of her brothers gave her some sweets, which
she immediately began counting backwards; on his giving her a great
number she at once begun counting from 28, which proved to be the correct
number. During this period she saw everything upside down, and when
given a watch to tell the time, she placed it upside down. During this time
she was much given to ﬁts of abstraction, her eyes ﬁxed and glassy, and
about the 22nd she was seized with inability to swallow. On the 26th she
gave a piercing shriek and it was found that she had lost the use of her right
arm also !
About this time a Dr. Raﬁaello was brought to see her and he announced
that, in a similar case which he had followed, there had been “ transposition
of the senses” to the hands and feet. As soon as the unfortunate girl had
one of her attacks of abstraction, her brothers at once tried speaking very
softly to her at her extremities; she at once answered back, and they
immediately asked how she was,—if she would have other paroxys1ns that
Dmo., 1900.] Automatic Phenomena in a Case of Hyster'la. 335
day and how long they would last. From that time the doctors were able to
help the patient according to her own prescriptions, and when in trance, she
was able to foretell unerringly all the different phases her malady would
take. For instance, on one occasion Dr. Cervello was able to learn that at a
certain hour for a short time, after several days’ fasting, she would be able to
swallow, and he was thus able to have food ready to sustain her.
Hearing was not the only sense transposed to her hands and arms, but
also those of smell and sight; when assafoetida was applied to her nose she
remained indifferent, but on its being brought near her elbow, she at once
complained of the unpleasant smell. She was also able while her eyes were
ﬁxed in a strong stare to tell Dr. Calandra what was contained in a small
packet at her elbow.
All the remainder of August, and up to September 10th, was passed in
great suffering; but the most fearful convulsive ﬁts were diminished in
intensity by her own prescriptions given when in trance, and by her power
of predicting the exact hour and minute that she would be seized with them,
and of indicating the least remedies that would give relief. On the 10th she
again began writing, and it was found that she used numbers instead of
letters, and this (as when she wrote the letters backwards) with the most
marvellous rapidity.
[The next portion of the narrative is translated in full.]
On the 12th, taking up her pen, she began a new sort of writing. It
was not numbers but an entirely unknown alphabet. We took great pains
to discover the connection of this alphabet with our letters, and after many
inquiries, it was made clear to all, and that day we understood what she
wrote. But on the 13th she changed to another alphabet and we could not
understand her. She wrote in vertical lines and was provoked that we could
not understand her writing. Also, she did not understand our pronuncia
tion, and when she spoke it was in an entirely new tongue. Luckily she fell
into frequent trances during which she spoke French and Italian. Later on
in the day we gave her a Greek grammar; she glanced hastily over the
Greek alphabet and seemed pleased with it, and presently began to use these
letters, and for all the rest of the day did not change her alphabet, although
she wrote Italian phrases, and for the ﬁrst time since August 20th she did
not write backwards.
Meanwhile she did not speak or understand Italian, and the only way in
which she could be got to understand a few phrases was by calling out the
Greek names, one by one, of the letters of which the phrase was composed.
At the same time she spoke to us with such rapidity that we could not follow
her, in a language entirely unintelligible to us, as if she were speaking her
own language. We supposed that it must be Greek, as, when she again fell
into a trance, she wrote : “ I have been to Athens ; I have seen that lovely
city; the people there speak as I do.” She ended by imagining herself a
Greek woman; she put on a proud and resolute expression, and seemed
with diﬂiculty to repress a deep and silent anger. She hid a dagger in her
belt and often brandished it, announcing that she wished to plunge it into
somebody’s breast, nor would she suffer it to be removed. With this dagger
336 Journal of Society for Peychical Research. [Dsc.,1900.
she tried to pierce a little child, whom she saw in her paroxyms, and whom
she asked for bread. She was accustomed to see this vision when fasting ;
and from the morning of this day she had begun a third fast, which she said
would last 45 hours. That day she was very excited, and in a trance said
that she could have spoken any language, and that that day she would feel
and speak in Greek, the next day in French, and the next in English, and
for those two days would not write. On the 14th, she did not understand
Greek or Italian but spoke and understood only French.
Her mood was very different from that of the preceding day: she was
gay, witty, and amiable; she conversed briskly and comprehended very
rapidly. She could not read the clock which was numbered in the Italian
fashion. Given an Italian-French grammar, she read the French phrases,
but could not understand or pronounce the Italian. When asked what she
had done the previous day, she replied that she remembered nothing about
it. When told that she had spoken Greek, she laughed at us, and said she
had never been taught Greek or any other language,—that she was a
Parisian, living in Palermo. She was amused at our accent and pronun
ciation not being pure, and lamented that she had no voice to show us how
it was done in Paris, etc. She frequently complained of confusion in her
head which was dissipated by music. Thus the 14th passed.
Our great expectation was for the morrow, when she had foretold that
she would speak English, for she had been taught a little French, but of
English she had not been taught even the ﬁrst elements, nor had any of the
family,—from whom she might have picked up a few words or phrases,—
ever learnt it.
The father, conscious of this, considered that, however bad our French
accent had been, we had been able to converse with the patient that day,
but that the next we should not understand her and that the scene of the
13th might be repeated. So he decided that for that day alone he would
break his resolution—rigorously maintained hitherto—not to introduce any
stranger into his daughter’s room, and begged some of his friends to come
who were either English by birth or who spoke the language very ﬂuently.
Early on September 15th, Professor Cavalier Tineo [the uncle of the
patient], who had almost every day observed the wonderful phenomena of
the illness of his niece, arrived and remained with her from the early morn
ing until 3 p.m. to satisfy his inexpressible curiosity. Two Englishmen,
Mr. Wright and Mr. Frederick Olway, were present, besides six Sicilians
. . [names and occupations given] who understood English well, and
took it in turns to spend the day with her.
On her awaking, they talked to her in Italian and French, but she looked
blankly at them and understood nothing of what they said.
Then, speaking in excellent English, she expressed her surprise that they
delayed so long in bringing her her tea.* Then Mr. Olway began to talk to
her and she carried on an easy conversation with him. When asked to write
" Note by the Tmnslator.—I must here note that tea is never taken by Sicilians
in the morning. Indeed, 50 years ago, it was only used as a decoction to be taken at
night to ward off a chill.
DEC,, 1900.] Automatic Phenomena in/a Case of Hysteria. 337
something, she refused, but when pressed again for a word or two at least,
she thus wrote the date : “Fifteen September.” At 9 a.m., having accom
plished the 43 hours of her fast, she ate, as she had predicted ;—her face
was serious ; she talked gravely and gesticulated little.
Her voice this day was almost inaudible, and occasionally completely
gave way. At these times, when she could not make herself understood by
gestures, she had; recourse to an ingenious artiﬁce. She procured an English
book and, holding it in her hand, pointed with her ﬁnger to different words,
and thus succeeded in composing the sentence which she had thought of.
In her paroxysms, she scolded the [visionary] child and threatened him with
her ﬁsts after the English fashion. She said that she was born in London,
but living in Palermo.
When the two Englishmen talked between themselves, she gave undeni
able signs of understanding what they said, and congratulated herself on the
lucky chance of having found two compatriots in a foreign land.
When the Sicilians spoke English, she noted their foreign accent and
deplored her weak voice which would not allow of her teaching them
properly the correct accent. Towards evening she informed us that the
next day she would speak Italian, and she then discussed with the two
Englishmen which of the Sicilians spoke the best English. Thus, this day
full of wonders not only to us, but to the strangers present, came to a close.
We were longing for the 16th that we might again speak Italian to our
dear invalid. . . . She announced to us, however, that she was of Siena
and described to us minutely the works of art of that city, I do not know
if it will seem so to others, but to me the talking in pure Tuscan was as
marvellous as the English. It is impossible to modulate the voice to this
soft tongue without being born there, and the girl herself seemed to enjoy
the beautiful expressions she was able to use.* She herself had entirely
forgotten the Sicilian dialect, excepting the few words like Italian.
She remained in this state until the 18th.
[The next part of the account is again abridged]
The invalid having predicted that on the 18th the paralysis would entirely
leave her, this happened; a curious fact was that as the paralysis disappeared,
the patient, who until then had spoken pure Tuscan, passed, actually in the
mvkist of a phrase, into the Sicilian dialect, which was her natural language ;
nor did she at all remember afterwards any of the languages she had spoken
so wonderfully.
In a moment of trance she wrote to Dr. Cervello that she would be
assailed by frightful convulsions on the 22nd; this of course in her normal
state she did not know, and on the 19th and 20th—ignorant of what she had
predicted—she gained strength and spirits and on the 21st was so well that
she was able to go out.
* Note by the Translator.-—The Sicilian dialect which is always spoken by the
middle classes is indeed like a different language from Tuscan, and the accent totally
different. Fifty years ago, there was so little intercourse between the two countries,
that it is improbable Ninfa had ever met a Tuscan.
338 Journal of Society for Psych/icut lteseurch. [Dsc., 1900.
Third Stage.
This last stage of the malady Dr. Cervello divides into seven periods ; the
ﬁrst, lasting from the 22nd to the 27th, comprised the most violent form of
convulsions, which reached such a degree that a padded room had to be
prepared for the patient. Somnambulism was also a feature of this period,
and she was able to hem a pocket handkerchief, most perfectly, with closed
eyes. The second period began on the 28th, after 24 hours’ truce, and was
characterised by great clairvoyance, but inability to recognise all those
around her. At this point Dr. Raffaello was able to give her some help, by
what was then called animal magnetism, and she obtained relief by this
means, and the artiﬁcial sleep rested and restored her. Of course this
science was then in its infancy, and was indeed mostly in the hands of
charlatans ; so much so that Dr. Cervello in his pamphlet thinks it necessary
at this point almost to apologise for permitting the treatment.
It is curious to note that, some of the symptoms of this curious malady
remaining quite inexplicable, Dr. Cervello was at last reduced to acceding to
the urgent request of the patient’s confessor, and allowing the priest to
exorcise her, as being possessed of devils. This curious ceremony took
place, and—needless to say—gave not the slightest relief.
On October 4th, the girl Filiberto had the ﬁrst paroxysm of the third
period during which she again experienced “transposition of the senses,”
and had also long cataleptic attacks. When in trance she continued to
prescribe the medical remedies to be used ; for instance, she predicted that
the senses would only respond in the middle ﬁnger of each hand. To
diminish the duration of the cataleptic ﬁts, she said, “ Give me small doses
of syrup of turpentine; after ﬁve minutes of the paroxysm press my forehead
and blow behind my ears.”* During this period the patient had a paroxysm,
when her body became burning hot, and all red as if with scarlatina ; violent
convulsions seized her, and with her face blistered and swollen, her hair all
standing on end like a Medusa, Dr. Cervello says the sight of her was
appalling! The fourth period began on October 9th, on the morning of
which poor Ninfa seemed quite calm—indeed, bright and happy; quite
ignorant of having predicted, when in trance, that she would at midday of
that day be seized with most terrible paroxysms. She had predicted also
that for 48 hours she would fast, being unable to swallow ; that she would
lose all her senses, and in moments of trance would only be able to hear
through her spine. All came absolutely true. She also predicted that the
ﬁfth and sixth‘ periods would be mild and not involve intense suffering, and
would both be chieﬂy marked by somnambulis1n. During this time, under
magnetic inﬂuence, she predicted a most terrible seizure on October 31st ;
also that her clairvoyance would end on that day, when death would eusue.
It would take too long to describe the skilful way in which Dr. Cervello
combated this idea, and how, in continued sittings, he gradually succeeded
in modifying her conviction of death, and extracting from her some remedies
" This was done in a similar case at Lyons, in 1787, by Professor Pététin; yet this
girl in Palermo could not possibly have read of this case, which was only known to the
medical faculty. —N. C.
l)nC.,l900.] Supplementary Library Catalogue. 339
to be used, to avoid it. Suﬂice it to say that, with the help of Dr. Raffaello,
who had, as I have already mentioned, been accustomed to use his magnetic '
power, the violence of the attack of the 31st was diminished, and after most
terrible spasms of the heart, and convulsions, an absolute calm set in, and
then gradually, instantly helped by magnetism, a restorative sleep set in; and
complete recovery was not far o11'.
Fourth Staye and Decline of the Terrible Malady.
All through November and until December 21st, there was a gradual and
steady improvement, only interrupted occasionally by paroxysms of pain at
the heart, convulsions, and slight paralysis; she was able often to go out.
On December 21st (according to her prediction) she entered on a period of
ﬁve days’ suffering, and on the 26th,—exactly one year from the day she was
ﬁrst affected,—she entirely recovered.
Here ends Dr. Cervello’s report ; I can only add that the lady still lives,
has been happily married, and is a mother and grandmother, and has always
since enjoyed good health and absolute freedom from any of the extra
ordinary symptoms which accompanied her very remarkable illness.
Palermo, 1899. T. WHITAKER.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last list (JoURNAL for December, 1899).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
BART}! (George), Mesmerism not Miracle. (3 Parts, bound together)
London, 1853—4
BmRT (A. ), On Double Consciousness.............................. ..Chicago, 1898
»—“The Psychology of Reasoning. ............................... ..Chicago, 1899
BRAID (Dr. J.), Hypnotism. Edited by A. E. Waite......... ..London, 1899*
BRAMWELL (J. Milne, M.B.), The Phenomena of Hypnotism and the
Theories as to its Nature. (The British Medical Jourrud) London, 1898+
-— Hypnotism. A Reply to Recent Criticism. (Brain)....L0nd0n, 18991L
—— Hypnotic and Post-Hypnotic Appreciation of Time ; Secondary
and Multiplex Personalities. (Brain, Part XC.) ........ ..London, 1900+
Dipsomania and its Treatment by Suggestion. (From the Proceed
ings of the Suciety for the Study of Ineln-iety, June, 1900)...London, 1900+
CREED (Hon. J. M., M.R.C.S.. L.R.C.P.), My Experience of
Hypnotic Suggestion as a Therapeutic Agent....Sydney, N. S. W., 1899§
FLoURNoY (Prof. Th.), From India to the Planet Mars. From the
French by D. B. Vermilye ...................................... ..London, 1900
KANT (Immanuel), Dreams of a Spirit Seer. From the German by
E. F. Goerwitz...................................................... ..London, 1900
SEELYE (H. H., M.A., M.D. ), Psychotherapy. Suggestion as a Cause and
Cure of Disease. (Medical Record, September 2nd, 1899) New York, 1899
SKEAT (W. W.), Malay Magic ........................................ ..London, 1900
* Presented by Dr. Bramwell. § Presented by the Hon. E. Greville.
T Presented by the Author.
340 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Dsc.,190o.
TUCKEY (C. Lloyd, M.D.), Treatment 'by Hypnotism and Suggestion.
4th Edit.............................................................. ..London, 19001‘
CHABANEIX (Dr. Paul), Le Subconscient chez les Artistes, les Savants,
et les Ecrivains ........................................................ ..Paris, 1897
FLoURNoY (Prof. Th.), Des Indes a la Planete Mars........... ..Genei:a, 19001‘
RocHxs D'AIGLUN (Lt.-Col. de), Le Fluide des Magnétiseurs....Paris, 1891
LEHMANN (Dr. Alfred), Aberglaube und Zauberei. From the Danish.
By Dr. Petersen.................................................. ..S'tuttgart, 1898
MULLER (Rudolph), Naturwissenschaftliche Seelenforschung, Vol. III.
Leipzig. [1900]+
VERvoRN (Dr. Max), Beitréige zur Physiologie des Centralner
vensystems. Erster Theil. Die sogenannte Hypnose der Thiere
Jena-, 1898
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
AUToMATICALLY WB.IT'rRN, Various Tracts................ ..London, 1899—1900+
BR1osMm (Laura D.), The Education of......................... ..[U.S.A., N.D.]*
DRURY (B. S.), Neo-Christian Epistles............................ ..Lonclon, 1900+
EsTLAKE (Allan), The Oneida Community ....................... ..London, 1900§
EvANs (H. R.), Hours with the Ghosts .......................... ..Chicag0, N.D.'i'
FAIRFAX (Edward), Daemonologia : A Discourse on Witchcraft (1621).
Introduction by William Grainge ......................... ..Harrogate, 1882
FIsHBoUGH (William), The End of the Ages ................. ..New York, 1899§
FLAMMARIoN (Camille), The Unknown. From the French ...London, 1900
GIBIER. (Paul, M.D.), Psychism. Analysis of Things Existing. 5th
Edit....................... ........................................ ..New York, 1900+
GoooR1CH-FRssR (Miss A.) and the late MARQUEss oF BuTR, The
Alleged Haunting of B— House. New Edition ....... ..London, 1900+
HoUGHToN (Miss G.), Evenings at Home in Spiritual Séance. 1st
Series .................................................................. ..London, 1881
HYsLoP (Prof. J. H.), Life After Death. (Harper's .Zl[agazine, June) 1900
JoLY (Henri), The Psychology of the Saints..................... ..London, 1898
LEADBEATER (C. W.), Tracts........................................ ..London, 1895—9
“ LIGHT,” Vol. for 1899................................ ............ ..London, 18991
LoWELL (Percival), Occult Japan; or, The Way of the Gods
Boston, U.S.A., 1895
PoWELL (J. W.), Truth and Error, or, The Science of Intellection
Chicago, 1898
SAvAGE (Rev. Minot J.), Life Beyond Death.................... ..L0ndon, 1899
V1srTs FRon THE Worms oF SPIRITs.............................. ..London, 1791
DURvILLE (H.), Magnétisme, Théories et Procédés. Vol. I.....Paris, 1898+
Du PEEL (Carl, Dr.), Die vorgeburtliche Erziehung als Mittel fiir
Mensch-entziiehtung................................................. .. Jena, 1899
HUGHEs (Henry), Die Mimik des Menschen . ...... ..Frankfurt, A.M, 1900§
ACsvsno (Otero), Los Espiritus..................................... ..Madm'd, 1895+
* Presented by Mr. F. \V. H. Myers. § Presented by the Publisher.
1; Presented by the London Spiritualist Alliance. '1' Presented by the Author.
JOURNAL
oF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME IX.
1899—1900.
A
ALEXANDER, PRoF. A., Cases contributed by... 151, 238
Cure of Paralysis by Hypnotism 238
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research, List of Members
2, 18, 49, 81, 97, 129, 145, Nil, 201, 221, 237, 253, 269, 293, 309, 325
Angus, Miss, Experiments in Crystal Vision 30, 45, 78, 218, 219, 229
Animal Apparitions... 42, 43,44
Animals, Apparently affected by Psychical Phenomena 43, 245, 304
Animals, Cure of Warts in—by “ Charming” .. 99, 100-103
Annual General Meetings 18, 202
Anonymously Contributed Cases... 27, 55, 73, H9, l54, 155, 191, 193, 317, 331
Arensburg Disturbances, The 28, 93
Auguez, Paul, Case recorded by 15
Automatic Phenomena in a Case of Hysteria 333
B.
B., MR., A Case of Alternating Personality ' ...87-89
Banchory Disturbances, The 27, 92
Barcellos, Dr. A., Cure of Paralysis by Hypnotism .. 238
Barker, Mrs., Correspondence on “ Clairvoyance and Poltergeists” 72, 91
Barkworth, T., On the Phenomena of the “ Fire Walk ” I76
Barrett, Prof. W. F., On the Divining Rod 149, 328
,, ,, ,, ,, anovel use of 328
,, ,, ,, The Fire Walk 148
,, ,, ,, Pseudo-Possession 273
,, ,, ,, a Supposed Case of Spirit Photography, Further
Discussion of 138, 181, 183, 188, 251
Bates, Miss E. K., Sittings with Mrs. Piper 225
Bealings Bells Case .. 27, 91
Beauchamp, H. K., On the Phenomena of the Fire Walk in India 312
Bedingﬁeld, Lady, Case contributed by... 76
Bennett, E. T., Articles Translated by 83, 89
Blum, Dona Maria do Carmo, Case contributed by 152
Boirac, Prof., Hypnotic Researches of .. ._ 54-56
ii Index to Volu/me IX.
Briggs, Mrs., Cases collected by .. 241, 244
Bringhurst, Dr. W. L., Case contributed by . 87
Bristow, Mr., Case recorded by .. .. 31
Browne, E., Note on Dr. Morton Prince’s Case of Multiple Personality... 96
Bute, The Marquis of, Case collected by 80
,, ,, Obituary Notice .. 310
C.
C., MR., Case contributed by .. .. 73
C., Mrs., Case contributed by 12
Carberry, H., Cure of Warts by “ Charming" 104
Cases :
“G.” Cases 12, 76, 122, 123. 150, 154, 241, 298
“L." Cases 32, 101, 125, 127, 128, l37, 151, 227, 246, 306, 331
“L. : Cl." Cases .. 14, 47
“M." Cases .. 87
“M. : Ant." Cases 280, 284
“ M. : Cl." Cases 78, 87
“P." Cases 15, 60, 73, 79, 80, 134, 195
“S.” Cases 58
Catherine, Sister, Case recorded by 80
Cavalli, V., Case recorded by 284
Cervello, Dr. Niccolo, Automatic Phenomena in a case of Hysteria 333
Chance-Coincidence, Prof. W. Romaine Newbold’s Investigation of Mr.
Willson Roberts‘ Alleged Telepathic Experiments 197
“ Charming," Cure of Warts by .. _ 99, 100-4, 121, 122, 223, 225
,, (See also under Suggestion).
Chase, Lt. G. N., Case contributed by 47
Chattock, Prof. A. P., On Experiments in Telepathy 9
Child Percipients ' .. l04-109, 124, 126, 127
Cideville Disturbances, The .. 29, 93
Clairvoyance, Experimental 22-24, 37, 47, 48, 100, 333, 338
(See also Crystal Visions.)
, Telepathic .. 60, 105-112, 152, 153, 227
,, and Poltergeists, Correspondence concerning (See Polter
geists) '
Clanny, Dr. Reid, Evidence as to Poltergeists. .. 28, 92
Coghil], C. P., Cure of Warts by Suggestion 100
Coincidences, A Further Paper on, by Miss Alice Johnson 83
Coleman, W. E., On “ Slate Writing" Phenomena 12, 57
Colles, Dr. A., Case cont1ibuted by .. 158
Committees—Elections on—l899 .. 20
,, ,, 1900 .. 203, 204
“ Compact” Cases 123
Congress, Second International Congress of Hypnotism 261
,, Fourth ,, ,, Psychology 256, 292
Corbet, Miss S. R., A case of Supposed Spirit-Photography 137, 177, 178,
188, 232, 251
Correspondence, Miscellaneous, 9, ll, 22, 30, 36, 37, 51, 56, 57, 71, 72, 91,
95, 143, 144, 158, 159, 176, 268, 288, 289, 322, 324
Council Meetings 2, 19, 50, 82, 98, 130, 146, 161, 203, 222, 238, 254, 269,
293, 310, 326
Index to Volume IX. iii
Council Meetings, Elections on 19, 20, 82, 130, 202
Cones, Prof. Elliott, Evidence on Slate-Writing Phenomena .. 12, 36, 57
Crookes, Sir William, Experiments with D. D. Home and others 11, 147
322, 324
,, ,, Prof. Lehmann’s Criticisms of... 322, 324
,, ,, On the Fire W'alk 146, 147
,, ,, Presidential Address 33
Crystal Visions—
,, Clairvoyant .. 78
,, Premonitory .. 15
,, Telepathic 30, 45, 78, 229
Cumberland, Stuart, Case of possible Telepathy with 3, 4
Cure of Warts by Suggestion (or “ Charming") 99, 100-164-, 1217122, 223, 225
D.
D., MR. AND MRs., Cases contributed by 241, 242, 245
-Dallas, Miss H. A., On Pseudo-Possession 288
Dariex, Dr., Experiments in Physical Phenomena 11
Dead, Phantasms of the 123, 151, 241, 242
Death Signs
,, Apparitions 126, 127
,, “Death Watch” ._ 135, 138, 159
,, Dreams, Symbolic... .. 128, 154
,, Knockings 195,196
,, Peculiar to Certain Families 126, 127, 128, 134, 135, 138, 159
Death Watch (or Ticking), A Subjective Hallucination of 158
Didier, Alexis, Alleged Clairvoyance of... 22-24, 37, 38, 10()
Discovery, by Divining Rod, of—
,, ,, ,, Coins... 84,85,150
,, ,, ,, Leaks in Pipes and Drains 328-330
,, ,, ,. Metals .. 84, 85, 86
,, ,, ,, Minerals 150
,, ,, ,, Miscellaneous Objects 84, 85
,, ,, ,, Water 84, 85, 86, 149, 328-330
Divining Rod, Prof. W. F. Barrett, on . . .. 149, 328
(See also Discovery, Dowsers, Dowsi-n-g, Folk-lore,
Localities, Materials, Movements, Water.)
,, Literature of .. 83
,, Motor Automatism of .. 84, 86
,, Sensations described by Dowsers 86
,, Experiment_s with, described by—
Barrett, Prof W. F., 149; D'Outrepoint, Prof., 83; Harington,
Sir R., 330; Roderick, Dr., 328-330; Taylor, Lt.-Col. G. A. M.,
150; Westlake, E., 150, 330; Young, T. F., 328-330.
Documentary Evidence, ConteInporary—Extant 79, 134, 136, 137
D’Outrepoint, Prof. Dr., A Contribution to the History of the Divining
Rod .. ..
Dowsers, Names of [Amateurs in Italics]
Brayer, J. P,, 83-86; Hm-ington, Sir R., 330; Jones, J. H., 149; Pavey, R, 330;
Stone, \V., 149 ; Young, J. R, 328-330.
Dowsing, Intention or Set of Mind in 84, 85, 86
Dreams, Clairvoyant .. 15
83
iv Index to Volume IX.
Dreams, of Flying 95
,, Memory revivals in 15
,, Recurrent 95,128
,, Simultaneous .. 331
,, Symbolic of Death (or Illness) 128, 154
Drewry, W. F., M.D., A case of Duplex Personality recorded by.. 265
E.
E., MR., Sittings with Mrs. Piper 220
Ecstasy, Phenomena of 8, 312-322
,, (See also under “ Fire Walk.”)
Eclitorship of the Pr0ceedz'n_qs and Journal, Change of . 98
Espin, J. E., Experiments as to the Production of “Spirit” Photiigraphs
141, 189, 192, 193, 194, 232
F.
F., MR., Case contributed by 241, 243
F. G. S., On a supposed case of Spirit Photography 193
F. R. A. S., On a supposed case of Spirit Photograph 139-143, 190-193
Faith Healing, Possible Case of 69
Fay, Mrs., Alleged Mediumship of 11
Feilding, Hon. Everard, on Prof. Hyslop’s Experiments in Identiﬁcation 166
Felkin, Dr. R. W., Case recorded by 60
Filiherto, Ninfa, Case of 333
Fillebrown, Dr. T., Cure of Warts by Self-Suggestion 121
,, Some Notes on Self-Suggestion 120
“ Fire Test," The, Alleged Phenomena of 32, 146-149
Fire Walk, Phenomena of—
,, ,, Beauchamp, H., on ' 312
,, ,, Ecstasy, indications of, during... 312-322
,, ,, Heredity, indications of, in 147
,, ,, Lang, Andrew, on 146, 176, 312
Fisher, Mrs., Case contributed by ,.. 3
Flournoy, Prof., “ Des Indes a la Planete Mars,” Discussion of, by
F. W. H. Myers 270
,, on the Foundation of a Psychological Institute (Con
gress of Psychology) .. .. 297
Folk-lore of the Divining Rod 84
Fotheringham, W. R, Case communicated by... 306
Fox Family, Alleged Mediumship of 205
Francis, Mrs. , Alleged Mediumship of 12, 36, 57
G.
GENIUs, The Mechanism of, F. W. H. Myers on 272, 290
Glardon, Rev. Aug., Cases contributed by .,. 95, 144
,, on Experimental Telepathy 9
,, a Note on Self-Suggestion 144
Glanvil, Rev. Joseph, Casesrecorded by _ 25, 39, 205, 206
Goldenstubbé, Baron, Case recorded by... 28, 93
H.
H., F. N., NoTE on the Yoga-Trance among Southern Slavs 6
Hallucination, Collective, as an Explanation of the Physical Phenomen
of Spiritualism .. .., 31
Index to Volume IX. v
Hallucinations—
,, Collective 90, 125, 136, 246, 248
,, ,, Haunting .... 298, 301
,, Recurrent... 90, 168
,, Subjective ... 40, 124, 125, 126, 127, 158
Haunts—
,, Apparitions... ...42-44, 76, 123, 245, 246, 298-306
H ,, Collective 298, 301
,, Poltergeists, Phenomena connected with .. 25, 26, 39, 40-45
,, Reports of alleged 48, 143
,, Sounds 13, 14, 25-27, 40-45, 123, 124, 154-158, 245, 246, 300
,, Touches _ 13, 14, 26, 27. 42
Hansen and Lehmann, Messrs., On the Telepathic Problem 113
Heysinger, Dr. I. W., on an Incorrect Version of a Supposed Case of
Spirit Photography 139, 142
Heredity, as possibly hearing on the Phenomena of the Fire Wa1k 147
Hodgson, F., Case contributed by 280
Hodgson, Mrs., Case contributed by 227
Hodgson, Dr. R., Experiments with Eusapia Paladino 4, 5, 35
,, ,, Experiments with Mrs. Piper .. 162
,, ,, Mrs. Piper’s Present Trance Condition 286
,, ,, Resignation of Editorship of Proceedings and Journal 98
,, ,, Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson 294
Home, D. D., Alleged Mediumship of 11, 31, 32, 146-149, 322
Hopcroft, Mr., Alleged Mediumship of 148
Houdin, R., Evidence as to the Clairvoyance of Alexis Didier 23, 24, 37
Howard, Dr. W. L., Case communicated by 88
Hugo, Victor, Cass recorded by 195, 196
Huxley, T. H., Case recorded by .. .. 219, 229, 230
Hyndman, Mrs. J. E., Case contributed by .. 32
Hypnagogic Illusions 121
Hypnotism. Second International Congress of (Paris 1900) 261
,, ,, ,, ,, Organisation of 261-264
,, ,, ,, ,, Subjects... 264, 265
,, Phenomena of-—Miscellaneous 149, 290, 291
,, ' ,, Clairvoyance, Experimental 55
,, ,, Curative 10, 120, 121, 238, 270I 338, 339
,, ,, Extensions of Faculty (Musical) 21, 22
,, ,, Magnets, Experiments with .. 52-56, 71
,, ,, Memory, Conditions of under... 88
,, ,, Moral aspects of 270, 271
,, ,, Personality in the Light of 88, 96, 270, 290, 291
,, ,, Suggestions, deferred 239, 240
,, ,, Theories of 51-56, 71, 120, 121
,, ,, Will-Power of the Subject 239
Hyslop, Prof. J. H. , Ex eriments in Identiﬁcation 162-165, 166-169, 177, 268
,, on mmortality and Psychical Research 131, 162
,, The Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper 132, 162, 223, 268
Hysteria, Automatic Phenomena in a case of 333
I.
IDENTIFICATIoN, Prof. Hyslop’s Experiments in, with Living Distant
Agents ... ... ... ... 162-169, 177, 268
vi Index to Volume IX.
India, Phenomena of the Fire Walk in .. 312
Indian Fakirs, Alleged Yoga-Trance of .. H 7
Irvine, Miss, Case contributed by 299, 300
International Congress of Hypnotism 261
,, ,, Psycholog' ' 256, 292
J.
JAMEs, Prof. W., Controversy with Prof. Titchener on Messrs. Lehmann
and Hansen’s Experiments in Unconscious Whispering... 113
Janet, Prof., Cases recorded by .. 231, 270
,, “ Névroses et Idées Fixes,” Discussion of, by F. W. H. Myers 270
,, Programme of the Psychological Institute 274
Japan, Phenomena of the Fire Walk in 321
Jobson, Mary, Case of 28, 92
Johnson, Miss Alice, Appointment as Editor of the Proceedings and
Journal S.P.R. 98
,, A Further Paper on Coincidences 83
,, ,, A Further Discussion of a Supposed Case of
“ Spirit"-Photography 177, 232, 234, 235
“ Jones Brothers," The, Exposure of a Trick Code used by... 61
Joumal and Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research—Change
of Editor 98
,, ,, Indexes of—Ampliﬁcation of .. 222
K.
K., MR., A Case of Alternating Personality 265
Kamp Family, Disturbances in 280
Kane, John, Cure of Warts by “ Charming" 100-104
Kerner, Dr. J., Cases recorded by , 26, 39, 56, 91
Kingsley, Miss Mary H., Forms of Apparitions in West Africa 51
,, ,, Obituary Notice 279
Kingston, Dr. H. D. R., Case collected by 280
,, ,, on a Case of supposed Spirit Photography 179
Koupreyanoff, Ivan, Case recorded by 58
Krajinoe, Milija, The Prophet, Alleged Supernormal Powers of 7, 8
Krauss, Fr. S., On the Yoga-Trance and Kindred Phenomena 6
L.
LANG, Andrew, On the Fire Walk 146, 176, 212
,, Poltergeist Correspondence, Replies to Mr. Podmore 30, 45
,, Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper 31, 45, 212, 228
,, ,, Reply to Prof. Lodge 228
Lee, Dr. Edwin, on the Clairvoyance of Alexis Didier 23, 24, 37, 38
Lel1mann, Prof.—
M Petrovovo-Solovovo on, Criticism of Sir W. Crookes’
Experiments 322
,, and Hansen, on the Telepathic Problem .. 113
Leigh, Dr. H. G., A Case of Duplex Personality, recorded by .. 265
Leir-Carleton, The Hon. Mrs., Case contributed by 79
Library, Supplementary Catalogues—
,, ,, ,, Edmund Gurney Library 159, 339
,, ,, ,, General Library ... 160, 340
Index to Volume IX. vii
Lina, Mlle- A Musical Sensitive 21
Leuba, Prof. J. H., An Inquiry Concerning Sudden Moral Transformations 5
Levitation, Alleged Phenomena of 31, 32
Localities, Divining Rod used in—
Llanelly, 328; Somerset, 150; 1rVawremont(Malmedy), 84; Whitbourne Court
(Worcester), 330; Wicklow, 149.
Lodge, Prof. Oliver, Experiments with Eusapia Paladino 4-5, 35
,, ,, Further Reﬂections on Mrs. Piper and Telepathy 212, 228
,, ,, on the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper 162, 166, 168,
212, 228
Lowell, Percival, on the Fire Walk in Japan 321
Luys, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 52-56, 71
M.
M., MRs., Experimental Telepathy with 9
Macalister, Prof., Sittings with Mrs. Piper 212, 213, 228
Magnets, Alleged Emanations from. (See Hypnotism.)
Mason, Miss M. H., Cure of Warts by Suggestion (or “ Cl1arliling ”) 223, 225
Materialisation, Alleged Phenomena of... 36, 58
Materials of the Divining Rod, Kind of Wood used 86
McKenna, J., Cure of Warts by Suggestion 102, 103
McLachlan, D. B., On a case of supposed Spirit-Photography 178, 180-182,
183-188, 232, 251
Meetings of the Society, Annual General 18, 202
,, ,, General 3, 33, 51, 83, 98, 146, 162, 204, 223, 254,
270, 294, 327
Members, Associates, Hon., and Corresponding Members, List of 1, 17,
49, 81, 97, 129, 145, 161, 201,
221, 237, 253, 269, 293, 309, 325
,, ,, American Branch 2, 18, 49, 81, 97, 129, 145, 161,
201, 221, 237, 253, 269, 293, 309, 325
219, 229, 330
246
Mesnet, Dr., Case recorded by
Milburn, Rev. R. G., Case contrubuted by
Mirville, J. E. de, “Des Esprits et de leurs Manifestations Fluidiques"
22-24, 29, 37, 93
Mompesson, Mr., Case recorded by 25, 39, 206
Moor, Major, Case recorded by .. 27, 91
Moral Transformations, An Inquiry into Sudden 5
Moses, W. Stainton, The Controls of, and Mrs. Piper 286, 287
Motor Automatism, Cases of 16, 65, 87, 230, 280, 284, 334
Movements of the Divining Rod, Breaking 86
,, ,, ,, Inability to restrain 86
Mumford, E. W., Evidence as to Mr. Willson Roberts’ alleged Telepathic
Experiments 197
Murray, Donald, Case contributed by .. 104, 144
Murray, Oswald, Report on the Psyclrological Inst-itutem(Con.gress of
Psychology) .. .. 296
Myers, F. W. H.—
,, Experiments with Eusapia Paladino 4, 35
,, Memorial Articles by, on—
Bute, the Marquis of 310
Kingsley, Miss M. H. L 279
viii Index to Volume IX.
Myers, F. W’. H.—Memorial Articles by, on—
Ruskin, John 208
Sidgwick, Prof.... 327
,, Presidential Address 254
,, on Pseudo-Possession 270
,, on the Psychlogical Institute (Congress of Psychology) 297
,, on the Range of Subliminal Mentation 289
,, on the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson 292, 294
N.
NARCoTICs, Extensions of Faculty under the Inﬂuence of 60
“ Nelly” (Control). (See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson)
Newbold, Prof. W. Romaine, Investigation of Mr. \Villson Roberts‘
Alleged Telepathic Powers 170, 17], 197
Nisbet, Verner, Evidence as to Mr. Willson Roberts’ Alleged Telepathic
Experiments . 197
O.
0BITUARIEs— -
The Marquis of Bute 310
Mary H. Kingsley .. 279
John Ruskin .. .. 208
Henry Sidgwick . 293, 327
Ochorowicz, Dr., Experiments with Eusapia Paladino 4, 5
,, on The Psychological Institute (Congress of Psychology) 296
O’Dom1ell, Elliott, Cases contributed by 123, 125
,, The Misses, Cases contributed by 125, 126
Olcott, Col., On the Fire Walk in India 321
Owen, R. D., Cases recorded by 27-30, 93
P.
PALADINo, EUsAPIA, Alleged Mediumship of... 4, 5, 34, 35
Paris Disturbances, The .. 29, 93
Paris Congresses—International—
Hypnotism 261
Psychology... 256,292
,, Foundation of a Psychological Institute at 274I 298
Parker, K. Langton, On an Australian Witch... 69
Parr, B. W., Cure of Warts by “ Charming" . 101
Pedley, C. H., Exposure of a Trick Code 61
Pelham, G. (“G. P."), Communications... 213, 228
Personality, Problems of—
,, Alternations of 88, 96, 230, 265, 327
,, Dual and Multiplex 88, 96, 230, 265, 327
" Memory, Conditions of 88, 266, 267
,, Moral and Mental Characteristics of Secondary 213, 214,
228, 290-292
Petro\'o<Sol0vovo, M., An Automatic Message giving Information Pre
viously Unknown... .'.. 65
,, ,, Cases communicated by 58, 65
,, ,, on Prof. Lehmann’s Criticism of Sir W. Crookes’
Expenments 322
Physical Phenomena -Spiritualism 36,57, 322
” :2
Ihdew to Volume IX. ix
Phelps Case, The ' 205
Philipps, Mrs. Wynford, Case contributed by . .. 14
Phillips, Mi-s., Case contributed by 306
Physical Phenomena not in the Presence of Paid Mediums 11, 58, 281, 282
(See also Poltergeists.)
Piddington, J. G., Hon. Secretaryship of the Society 146, 254
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of 31, 45, 131, 132, 162, 212, 223, 228, 268,
286, 292, 294
Pitt, St. George Lane Fox, On The Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson 295
Podmore, Frank, Correspondence on Poltergeists (and Clairvoyance)
22, 30, 37, 56, 72, 91
,, Replies to Dr. Wallace, Mr. A. Lang, and others 37, 91
,, On Speaking with Unknown Tongues 99, 100
,, ,, The Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper 166, 224, 268
,, ,, Witchcraft and Poltergeists 204
Poltergeists, Correspondence concerning (and Clairvoyance) 22, 30, 37, 56, 72, 91
,, Phenomena of—
Bell-ringing 27, 91
,, Disturbances of Coﬂins 28, 93
,, ,, of Furniture, etc. 25, 39, 40-45, 56, 57, 94,
205, 206
,, Stone-throwing 27-30, 31, 92, 93, 205
,, Connected with Haunting Phenomena 25, 26, 39, 40-45,7 56,
5 , 94
,, Witchcraft and. Analogies between, Podmore, F., on 204, 205
Premature Generalisations about Telepathy 169, 197
PreInonitions—
,, Crystal Visions 15
,, Dreams, Symbolic 128, 154
,, Hallucinations 60, 80, 126, 127, 134, 135, 138, 159, 195, 196
,, ,, Collective ... 136, 137
,, ,, Symbolic Vision 80
,, Impressions .. .. 79
,, Mediumistic Messages 73
Presidential Addresses .. 33, 254
Prince, Dr. Morton, ACase of Multiple Personality .. 83, 96, 327
Probabilities, Calculus of, in Psychical Research 109, 110
Pseudo-Possession, Phenomena of 270-273, 288, 289, 333, 335-337
Psychical Heredity .. . 122, 266, 267
Psychological Institute, Foundation of 274, 298
,, ,, Programme and Committee of Patronage 274, 276
,, ,, Report of Address on (Congress of Psychology)... 296
Psychology, Fourth International Congress of (Paris, 1900) 256, 219, 296
,, Organisations and Committees 258, 260
,, Presidents of Sections 258
,, - of Sudden Moral Transformations, Inquiry into 5
Q.
“ QU/EsToR VITAE,” on Human Magnetism ... 51
R.
RADovAN, '1‘he Legend of 6, 8, 9
x Indew to Volume IX.
Richet, Prof. Ch., Experiments with Eusapia Paladino 4, 5, 34, 35
,, on the Psychological Institute (Congress of Psychology) 297
,, Researches of 34
Rivers, Lt., Case recorded by 27
Roberts, E. Willson, Scientiﬁc Mind-Reading... 171, 197
Roberts, Lord, Case recorded by 128
Robertson, C. B., Cure of Warts by “ Charming” 122
Rochas, Col. de, Hypnotic Experiments... 21, 53-56
Ruskin, John, Obituary 208
S.
SAJoUs, DR., Hypnotic Experiments of... .. 53, 56, 71
Schiller, F. C. S., A False Alarm (Spurious Ghost Story) 143
,, on Prof. Hyslop’s Experiments in Identiﬁcation 167
Scott, The Misses, Case contributed by... 298
Self-Suggestion, Death, Simulation of 7, 8, 9
,, Faith~Healing, Possible Case of 69
,, Inhibition of Pain .. 7-9, 144
,, Notes on 120,144
,, Predictions fulﬁlled by 334-339
Shufeldt, Prof., On the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism 36, 57
Sidgwick, Mrs. H., On “Spirit” Photography .. 186
,, ,, ,, Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper 219, 220
Sidgwick, Prof. Henry
Obituary Notices of 293, 310, 327
,, ,, Prof. Hyslop’s Experiments in Identiﬁcation 167
H ,, Unconscious Whispering, Experiments in 114, 117
Simone, Signor, G. V. dc, Automatic Messages _ . 284
Sims, George R., Case contributed by 127
Skriytnikoﬁ" Case, The .. 65
Slade, Henry, Alleged Mediumship of 324
“Slate Writing,” Alleged Phenomena of 11, 12, 36, 57
Slawensik Castle- Disturbances at 26, 39, 56, 91
Smith, Hélene, A Case of Pseudo-Possession 270-273, 288
Smith, J. G., Cases communicated by 76, 195
,, (See Piddington, J. G.)
Society for Psychical Research—
,, ,, F. W. H. Myers, On the Position and
Working of 254
” ,, Income and Expenditure-—1898 46
H ,, ,, ,, 1899 211
Somnambulism, Spontaneous 88, 230, 265, 333-338
” ,, Alternations of Personality 88, 230, 265, 334, 338,
H ,, Memory Conditions during 231, 266, 267
,, (See also under Personality.)
Sounds from the Unknown, by J. H. Von Thiinen
Spirit-Identity, Question of, in Mediumistic Messages 65, 87, 132-134,
150, 166, 167, 215-218, 223-225, 228, 229, 268, 282-285
Spirit-Photography, Alleged Cases of 185-187
Further Discussion of a Supposed Case of 177, 183, 188,
191, 232, 251
Incorrect Version of a Supposed Case of 138, 190-193
89
1!
71
Index to Volume IX. xi
Spiritualism, Mental Phenomena—Mediumistic Messages 16, 65, 73, 87,
132-134, 150, 166, 167,
215-218, 223-225, 228, 268, 282-285
,, ,, Precognition 73
,, ,, (See also Spirit-Identity and Trance
Phenomena of Mrs. Piper and
Mrs. Thompson).
,, Physical Phenomena of—Miscel1aneous 4, 11, 12, 34, 35, 322, 324
,, (See Fire Test, Levitation, Materialisation, “Slate-Writing"
and under Names of Mediums.)
Starck, Lt.-Col., Case recorded by 66
Stead, T. W., Case recorded by 186, 187
Spruit, Capt., and Family, Case contributed by 104
Subliminal Consciousness and Experimental Telepathy 10
,, Range of Subliminal Mentation 271, 273, 288,
289, 295, 296
(See also Problems of Personality.)
Sweeney, H. J., On Prof. Hyslop's Experiments in Identiﬁcation... 167
T.
TEDWoRTI-1, Drummer of 25, 39, 206
Telepathy, Experimental-—
,, At close quarters
H ,, Alleged cases of 3, 61, 113, 171, 197
,, ,, Detection of a Trick Code in 61
,, Atadistance 10
,, At a distance, Alleged cases of ' 174, 175
,, Number habit as Affecting 116, 120
,, Premature Generalisations about 169, 197
,, Unconscious Whispering and 113, 324
Telepathy, Spontaneous—
Dreams 127,128,151, 227, 331
,, Simultaneous 331
Hallucinations 137, 159, 246-248, 307
,, Collective... ...137, 246-248
Impressions... 32, 239
Thompson, Dr. Edwin, Séances with Mrs. Piper 220
Thompson, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of 292, 294
,, ,, “Nelly,” Control 294, 295
Titchener, Prof., Controversy with Prof. James on the Hansen-Lehmann
Experiments in Unconscious Whispering 113
Tongues, Speaking with Unknown 99, 100, 333, 335-337
Trance, The Yoga—
Simulations of Death 7, 8, 9
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper
Dr.Hodgso1Ion 286
Prof. Hyslop on 132, 163-166, 177, 223, 268
A. Lang on... 31, 45, 212, 228
Prof. Lodge on 162, 166, 168,212
Mrs. Sidgwick on . 219.220
,, Experiments in Identiﬁcation asnlllustrlating-l 163-169, 177, 268
xii Indew to Volwnw IX.
Trance, Fraud, Question of 132, 166, 223
,, “ Imperator,” Control of Medium, taken by 286
,. Phinuit Personality, The 213, 214, 228-230
,, Possession Theory 220
,, Present condition of - 286
,, Spirit Identity, Question of 132-134, 150, 162, 166, 214-218
,, Telepathy, Question of—
From the Dead 219, 220
From the Living 134, 166, 212, 224, 228, 229
,, Of Mrs. Thompson— ~
Dr. Hodgson on 294
F. W. H. Myers on 294
Trick Code, Detection of a... .. 61
U.
UNCoNsCIoUs VVhispering, Controversy between Prof. James and Prof.
Titchener, on the Hansen-Lelnnann Experiments in 113
Unknown Tongues, Speaking with ' 99, 100, 333, 335-337
V.
VERRALL, MRs. A. W., Cases contributed by... 134, 159
W.
WAGNER, PRoF., Case recorded by .. _
Wallace, DR. A. R., Correspondence on Poltergeists (and Clairvoyance)
22, 37, 56, 91
187
,, ,, F. Podmore’s Replies to 37, 91
Warts, Cure of, by Suggestion, or “ Charming" 99, 100, 121, 122, 223, 225
,, Animals Cured 99, 100-104
Water, Depth of, how alleged to be found by Dowsers 86
Welsh, Col., on the Fire Walk in India... 312
Wesley, Rev. S., The Hauntings at Epworth 25, 40-45, 57, 72, 94
Whitaker, Mrs., Translation of Dr. Cervello’s “ Automatic Phenomena in
a Case of Hysteria" 333
Whiting, Miss L., Case contributed by 150
Will, Power of, in Controlling Physical Functions. (See Self Suggestion,
Yoga-Trance. )
Witch, An Australian .. 69
Witchcraft, F. Podmore on 204
,, Poltergeist Phenomena and, analogies between 205, 207
Witmer, Dr. L., Evidence as to Mr. Willson Roberts’ Alleged Telepathic
Experiments ' . 197
I
Y.
YoGA-TRANCE, The, Account of, by Fr. Krauss 6
