{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1katie_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Katie B NDE 2373\/6788","mylang":"de"}
          	        Katie B NDE 2373/6788  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kate B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						699  Kate B NDE  2373/6788  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
   Experience Description 6788  					   					Five days before the event I had a checkup with my doctor. He told me I had high cholesterol and diabetes. He put me on Metformin and Lipitor. The night before the event, I went to bed and told my husband I was a little tired. The next morning I tried to get up to go to the bathroom. I made it there, but I stumbled over everything. I had made it back to bed when my husband came in. He spoke to me asking me what was wrong. I couldn't hear him. I showed him 911 with my fingers and he went to call them. He told me later my lips and ear tips were blue. I tried to stay with him until the paramedics got there. The last thing I remember was the paramedic asking me if I could stand up. I heard her.

Then I don't remember anything until June 15. I was not in a medically induced coma. When I first woke up, they had my arms tied down so I wasn't sure if I was in jail or a hospital. Then a doctor came in and cut my throat to put in tubes for dialysis. I zoned out again. The next time I woke up, I was in a hospital room and I wasn't tied down anymore. I had a rush of feelings come over me then and I recalled what had happened and where I had been. Before I got to the hospital, I woke in a dark warm place with no light. I thought I must be dead.

About the same time, a pinpoint of light started, and I was moving rapidly towards it. I was picked up by a being of light who radiated peace and endless joy and compassion, not to my body, but to my soul. I didn't care where my body was. At first, I could see that the being was dressed in white, but he kept getting brighter and brighter. It seemed we were going up, but we stopped, and it was a gray area. God wasn't in the gray place, but God was everywhere else. We left there, and continued moving into the brightness above. The farther we got up the brighter the being became until I could no longer see his face. I didn't have a life review that I can recall. I had been robbed at gunpoint about a year earlier and I got the mini condensed one then. We got to where we were going, it was like a little garden with a white picket fence, but I could not get in there. They told me I had to go back. I begged and pleaded, but they sent me back to my poor pain-filled body in a rush.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'June 5,2005'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was in shock. My heart Failed, my liver failed, my kidneys failed, and I was in a coma. I had rectal bleeding. My cardiologist had to thump me back two or three times.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had never before in my life felt such peace and joy, love and compassion. I could feel it like honey being poured into me. Everything was perfect.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I woke in the darkness and thought I must be dead, then the light came for me. The being was full of love, compassion, peace and joy. He gave me that gift. I can remember the joy and the peace and know when I go there again I will be ready for my place.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It's like seeing clearly to the ends of the world. I wear glasses, and vision here is muddy.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear words or songs, they just were. Right before the experience, my hearing was ok. Except for directly before when my hearing was going in and out.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I work in a warm, black place and when the light came I traveled directly to it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Everything except that one gray area was full of God's Love and Light. It is stupendous.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I think I went to Heaven. It was a place full of joy, peace, love and cherishing. I don't have the words to describe it.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, peace, love, and sorrow that I had to leave because it wasn't my time.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The picket fence was my boundary.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The people behind the picket fence said my place was not yet ready. I had to return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I left the Roman Catholic church for the Episcopal Church because I felt I was no longer Catholic. God loves me even though I was divorced and remarried.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I have since joined the Episcopalian Church, since the Catholics wouldn't let me take Communion because I remarried after a divorce.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     There is not one true way to God. God is universal.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe God loves me as I am.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I heard thoughts in my mind, but not aurally. I heard songs of praise in my mind, too.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus is who came and got me.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     Close family and friends stop by to say goodbye when they die, now.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I became aware God is everywhere.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God IS. God is everywhere.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I learned I have not completed the task I was sent here to learn.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I couldn't stay because my place wasn't ready yet.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists┬

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     There is life after death

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     We are all part of God. God is universal. I no longer hold grudges when someone hurts me because it doesn't matter in the long run. I try to do my best to live like each day is my last on earth.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     God is love, peace, and joy.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I changed my religion to one that embraced me and my rector believed in my near death experience.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am able to work fearlessly with my psychiatrist now, where I held back before. I am bipolar in this life, but now I admit it instead of just dealing with the consequences of it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Mere words cannot express the peace and joy I felt. How much I wanted to be allowed to stay, how ready I was to stay. I no longer fear death because death is the beginning of what I think is our real life.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   The NDE showed me that there is life after death, and after I complete my task I will be going back.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I know things beforehand hand sometimes. When someone I am close to dies, they come to say goodbye to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing death is nothing to fear, knowing my close friends and family will come to tell me goodbye, and knowing that God is.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with a nurse in the hospital first, then my husband, and then my psychiatrist.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My mother had a near death experience when I was about seven. She didn't talk about it until I was forty.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened. I felt the joy, peace and love for a year. Even now I can remember it fully.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It happened to me. I no longer fear death. My ex-husband came by on December 25th to say goodbye, and I met my husband's mother and brother who were already dead in a dream. They had a message to my husband that he understood. I had never even seen a photo of his brother or mother.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I feel joy when each of my grandsons was born. I have five. Three before the experience and the two after brought me total joy and love.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I greatly feared death, I refused to accept the fact I was bipolar, I dabbled with drinking and drugs. Now I don't feel afraid of death, and the alcohol and drug use is totally out of my life. I feel happy every day of my life, and I am ready at any time to go to Heaven again. My bipolar disorder doesn't give me the sorrow and denial it once did, and after eight years my kidneys healed back to normal. I was on dialysis for six weeks, then my kidneys were still in failure until my last check up when my doctor told me they were healed.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think a separate question about your illness or accident before you went into the near death experience would help to set it up. I went into shock, and if that was a separate question it would have helped me to focus more on the actual near death experience.        


     		Experience Description 2373:   

I was in a dark moist place that was warm. I felt totally peaceful there. Then a man in a blue shirt showed up and picked me up, and we went walking. The further we walked the brighter the light became, and he did, too. He carried me over a void place, and I was given to understand that it was hell, because there was no God there at all. It was a featureless plane that the person carried me through, all the while glowing brighter and brighter and the road we were on glowed brighter and brighter as well. Finally, we were out of the void spot and the person was so bright I couldn't look at him anymore. He carried me until we reached an area that looked like to me three windows onto heaven. There I was given to understand my place wasn't there yet, and I had to go back to my body. When I did, the pain was immense and immediate.

I am no longer afraid to die.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 week of June 9 thru 15th 2004  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attackAllergic reaction     My liver, kidneys & heart quit. I was shocked 3 times and put on life support  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My major organs were shutting down, and no one knew why. I was unaware of this, however. My liver failed first, then my heart stopped, then my kidneys failed. My husband found me turning blue in bed. I awoke, but my sense of hearing was gone and I couldn't talk correctly. He called 911.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had never felt such peace and joy and welcoming in my life. I belonged there and they are waiting for me to return when it is time.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While he was carrying me on the bright road while he and the road got so bright I was dazzled, and when I realized I had to go back to my body.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I feel like I went from the shadow of the valley of death to complete light, and I did.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was the place where I was waiting for the light to come, but it wasn't a tunnel for me, it was just kind of dark, like gloaming time.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Just the man in the blue shirt, and we didn't talk, he just let me know things.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It got lighter, but until the man in the blue shirt picked me up and started to carry me, then the light grew and got brighter and brighter.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     The three ways into heaven were beautiful.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, peace and awe.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I had been held up at gun point at the bank I worked for a few years earlier and had already had a life review at that time.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I pray more.  

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Roman Catholic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I pray more.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The absolute peace and comfort I felt. The regret when I knew my place wasn't there yet and I had to return to my extremely ill body.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sense of total peace and joy I felt. I have never felt that at all before like that. It is indescribable.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my physician, and a nurse while I was still hospitalized. I told my husband, and my children and my psychiatrist after I was out of the hospital. I don't know if it affected anyone or not.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My mother had one back in 1960, but it didn't sound anything like hers. She saw her body and I wasn't aware of mine. No, it didn't affect me.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience happened, I questioned my doctor and psychiatrist to see if they thought that it was synapses of a dying brain, they didn't, and I don't either. Something like that had never happened to me before or since. It was real because it happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, and if it had been a dream or such it wouldn't be so clear and bright like it just happened, and I'm not afraid to die, I'm ready.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       What physical problems remain after the NDE, and what senses had you lost prior to your NDE? Does anyone in your family think you got a miracle and why?  </span>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1katie_b_nde.html