{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kathaleen_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Kathaleen E NDE 188","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kathaleen E NDE 188  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Kathaleen E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						643  Kathaleen E NDE  188  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 


From all that I have read about NDEs, my experience was very short.  I was embedded in light, which was pure love.  I felt love that I had never known before and I knew that being loved did not depend on another human being.  I had a choice and I chose to return because I had a two year old son that I did NOT want my husband's (at the time) mother to raise.  He (my son) was more like my family and I didn't think that situation for him would be appropriate.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    10/11/1961

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     See above.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Ruptured ectopic pregnancy; during surgeryI had NO blood pressure the doctor could detect and had to have transfusion before going to surgery.  Many women at that time died because of ectopic pregnancies, bleeding to death internally. 1500cc's of blood was removed from my abdominal cavity. Remember we're in a country that transportation to the hospital is not like in the US today.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was sedated.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I may have but I don't know.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     The knowledge - stated in main narrative - relative to love.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I was not out of body.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Spiritual rather than religious.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Described above relative to love.  I am also much more liberal in my spiritual beliefs. It seems to me I became 'spiritual' rather than 'religious'.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   At that time, if it was verbalized, people thought you were nuts - including my husband at the time.  It was not until the University of Georgia professor came out with 'Life After Life' that people could accept.  Then, one had to be careful who they were talking to.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The high was the best; that I could not share it was the worst.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Shared with my husband at the time - he thought I was nuts so I didn't talk about it for years.  Now, I talk about it freely with the people who, I believe, can accept it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I think I have said more than I've ever said before.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      None that I know.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kathaleen_e_nde.html