{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kate_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Kate D NDE 3518","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kate D NDE 3518  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kate D NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1570 Kate D NDE 3518  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This whole experience felt like it may have been an hour in length in total. From the time, I became unconscious to the time I awoke. However, I was unconscious for about seven hours. The experience happened right before I woke up in the emergency room. This is what I felt and what I saw.

I was sitting on my grandfather's lap (who has been deceased since I have been eight years old) in the kitchen of the house where he used to reside with my grandmother. I was happy to be with him, to see him again after so long and I had felt so at peace just sitting with him on his lap. As I was sitting there, I noticed his arms come above me and he placed a wooden box in front of me onto the table in the kitchen. It almost looked like a small, intricately carved jewelry box. As he had placed it on the table, his hands opened the wooden box slowly- as if to gain my interest as to what was inside. As he opened the box, glowing white light emerged from it. It felt magical as it appeared and I slowly bent my head down into the box to see what was inside. 

As I had submerged my whole face into it, I felt an unexplainable feeling of calmness and belonging. I felt at unexplainable peace and love on a level, which I felt I did not want to come back from. It felt like a suspension of time in this state. From there, the brilliant light turned into, all of a sudden, a glorious sunset. The dawning sun was setting on a road - it was so massive and beautiful/reddish-orange in color. From a third person perspective, I witnessed myself (as a little six year old girl still) with my grandfather holding my hand and walking me toward the emanating sun set - from behind (in third person) I was behind both of us walking toward the light. 

During this happening, I turned to my grandfather, looked up at him, and said, 'Grandpa, where are we going?' He looked straight ahead at the sun, and said 'I'm taking you home, Sam, I'm taking you home.' I felt my heart drop, like I did not want to go back - wherever that was to me - I wanted to stay there, forever, wherever we were. Shortly after this happened I began to sense, with my eyes still closed, a white light and heard voices, mumbled and slurred, in the background calling my name. I opened my eyes and I was surrounded by about five emergency room doctor's abruptly shouting, 'Kate, Kate? Do you know where you are?' repeatedly trying to snap me out of this state. I tried to utter, 'Yes, I'm in Cornwall' (it was difficult to talk with a tube down my throat). One of the doctor's replied 'Where?' I said, 'Cornwall.' He then informed me that I was not in Cornwall, but in Mississauga General (a hospital in range of where I resided). I was very confused as to why I was there and not in a hospital in Cornwall (five hours away) where my grandparents used to reside.

The next day I was baffled, trying to compare what I had experienced to a dream. However, it had no significant relevance, in my mind, to a dream. This had happened, and I know my grandfather was with me in spirit. I even discussed this with my mother a year later, letting her know that I knew grandpa was in such a beautiful world that she should not even worry, ever, about dying. It made me aware that there is something so beyond what we experience, as humans on this earth that is a part of an unimaginable picture we cannot fathom in this life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March, 2004'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Have experimented with GHB in doses of about a one teaspoon quantity over a four hour stretch. Very controlled in that dosage.  Accidentally ingested a large gulp (of what I assumed to be water in the bottle) but ended up swallowing GHB- possibly 10 times  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'Hooked up to a respirator in hospital.  After the whole experience, was told that my heart was beating 4 beats per minute/ approx.  Was not conscious for about seven hours (felt like an hour). Overdosed on GHB. Accidentally took a large gulp from a water  Was on respirator in hospital. In a coma. Non-responsive. I was told the next day that my heart beat was at a low of four beats per minute.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the end of the experience, when I had a fear of going back to where I came from. Parting with my grandfather.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no accountability of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It felt like it was really happening and everything looked normal. I never got a chance to actually see my grandfather's face, it was blurry - but I knew it was he. The sun set was so magnificent in reds, oranges - incredibly oversized, seemed disproportionate to the road.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Voices sounded like they were echoing - as if softly spoken through a tunnel.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     When I was looking into the box with the light, a medley of emotions came over me. It was so bright and I didn't know if I had traveled into the light ending up at the road with the sunset holding my grandfather's hand.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt as if there were beings in the light, I felt their presence but I could not see them.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It seemed to glow from the box at first, but when I put my head into the box the light became overpowering, but calming at the same time. It was very white/ bright.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The road with the sunset.  It was just a very long road in the surrounded by nothing. It was the sun that was so unwordly.  It seemed so grand in comparison to the road.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness, surrealism, loved, protected, safe.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     The first part of the experience sitting on my grandfather's lap in the kitchen, I remember that it actually happened when I was six years old. It seemed like a play back from that point in my life. The box of light and the road with the sunset I cannot make any links to.  I always felt when my grandfather died while I was still a child that he watches over me, had actual feelings that he was my guardian and there in spirit with sometimes. This experience verified that for me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   none

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I became less fearful of the notion of death. I felt like I was shown that there is a different parallel our spirits reside to when we die.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I looked at relationships very differently after the experience. I had a much better communicative relationship with my parents, and I wasn't hesitant on adjusting the friends I previously had prior to the experience. I ended a long term relationship with someone I had grew apart from closely followed by starting a relationship that was significantly different than any other relationship that I had in the past.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   It was hard describing the feelings associated with the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Definitely my grandfather being there felt like he had been watching over me since the day he had died until present. Very significant.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was a few months after the experience that I divulged it to my close friends. About a year to my mother.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed the reality of the experience as unexplainable. The emotions that I had felt are not tangible in this reality.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I can remember it like it had happened yesterday. When I even think about it, or bring it up in conversation my heart races a bit, and it makes me a bit nervous where I sometimes stutter while trying to describe it to someone.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kate_d_nde.html