{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karyl_m_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Karyl M NDE-Like 3976","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karyl M NDE-Like 3976  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karyl M NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  			1900 Karyl M NDE-Like 3976  					  				  			          			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					05/08/2009. Recently a friend had me submit my out of body experience. I have had many paranormal accounts, and have become sick with a form of leukemia in the last few years. I now am a medium and most probably going to be leaving my physical vessel soon. Just wanted to make sure you received my submission, as he seemed to feel an importance that I submit this story and compile a few others. With me at home sick now I really have not much better to do, and would love to share any of my experiences with those that are interested.

Thank you so much for your time,

In God's love and peace,

Karyl

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



EXPERIENCE DESCRIPTION:

My out of body experience occurred when I was twenty-one years old, and in seemingly good health. I was visiting my parents, as my usual, once a month trip, and so far, everything appeared to be within that usual and normal visit - at least until bedtime.

9:00 pm rolled around, and I was instructed to sleep in my brother's old room - I had never been allowed in that room when I was younger. My brother was very private and a neat sort of person, and he did not want me in there, or anyone that I can recall.

Dad and I watched TV for a few more hours, and now it was a bit after 11:00 pm. I said my goodnights, and gave him a kiss on his cheek, and now I was on my way to the most interesting trip of my entire life.

Finding this room, just the way it was left ten years earlier, was what was in my thoughts at that time. Looking to see why and what was so special here, that it remained a shrine for my brother. It didn't feel cozy, and I was glad to be leaving the next day, because another night in this room was more than I felt that I wanted to deal with.

As I am drifting off to sleep, my sight had a new angle, and I noticed I was lying on my back, with my arms crossed, like I was in a casket. My realization was that I saw me from a new direction, and I watched myself for a few more moments. Then I floated around the room, in the calmest manner. Now this room was becoming more than I ever could have imagined. This was fun, and something to make even the most analytical person become perplexed.

It was time to go outside, and I was headed for the window. However, as I turned slowly, there was darkness, and a small light at the apparent end.

In this tunnel, I could see glimpses of dark blue, purple and gold specks, illuminating the walls of this long and very quiet tunnel. The tranquility that was within there is now capturing my entire being, and was enough for this highly anxious girl to want to stay here for a long while.

As I am floating toward the light, I felt compelled to continue this uncertain and positive experience. The light is becoming brighter and larger, and all I could feel is the presence of good, and now am for sure, this is where I need to be.

Finally, the end of the tunnel is here, and I am enveloped in that same light, that without a word spoken, directed me here.

Within a few seconds, a lady appeared to tell me that I had a choice, and that I was young.

Looking at her was my new agenda, 'Who is she?' I don't recognize her, but she seems to know me. I continue to do a checklist of her characteristics. She has shoulder length, strawberry reddish hair, and very pale skin. Her eyes were a stunning blue. At this point, it did not matter where I knew her from, or who she is. I had a choice to make, and she made me feel that time was of the essence.

I wanted to stay, but had remembered her saying that I was young. What did that mean? Does that really have anything to do with my choice? She was about fifty years old, and looked extremely happy! What a decision to make. This is the best vacation ever! No stress, No money needed, never having to write out another bill - or worse talk to the bill collector! I need more time, but she gave an insistent order to make my choice and said whatever I choose will be fine.

At that time, I turned around, back to the direction I had so calmly came from, and was immediately pulled back through the dark tunnel. It was so fast, that I didn't see any of the magical colors within the dark travel.

I was bolted back into my old body and I was, at that point, a bit shaken up. Now it is time for me to evaluate this trip, so I headed to speak to my father, who was half-asleep on the couch, with the TV still blaring.

He insisted my adventure was a dream, and told me to go back to sleep. I knew that I had not been to sleep, and that this was something real and very special. That was enough for me, so I got a sip of coca cola, and proceeded back to bed. I had hopeful thoughts, that someday I would be honored again once more. That day has still not arrived, but I am waiting patiently, for my next really relaxing permanent vacation - and yes - with God.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SECOND EXPERIENCE:

Last night was very different from being peaceful and serene, or at least it started out with mega pain and distress. I now know that it was gallbladder issues and many stones - the pain was unbearable.

My girls came in around 11:00 pm, and I was just uncomfortable at that time, but it proceeded to elevate to a full-blown case of stabbing, burning and throbbing pain inside my belly, and shooting pains around my body. I prayed for relief and some sleep.

By 12:40 pm, my level of pain was immense, as I lay there on my back moaning and thrashing about the bed all of a sudden, I was outside my body sitting beside what I thought to be a man dressed in a white robe, with a brilliant aura of light outlining his entire body! I realized now that there was no pain within my being. He began to speak, so I turned my head to see him more clearly. There was no face or body. The outline was filled with the colors of purple, dark blue and pink. Large lines of color were lining the inside of this figure and the aura was so bright around him. After my quick inspection of his presence, he told me that I had taught my girls all that I need to from this earth, and the rest I can show them from the other side.

All of a sudden, my youngest daughter opened a door, and made me literally jump back in my old, tired and painful body. I was annoyed with that interruption, but just asked her to please be quiet and go back to bed.

Now, I am going to try my best to get comfortable and try to fall asleep. It was at least an hour of the same hurt that had earlier plagued my physical being. Last time I looked at the clock, it was 12:57. It felt like minutes from that time I left my body and entered the large brightness of white light.  It was so calm and pain free, I want and need to find that presence that at that moment, I felt that he was God, my Lord and Savior.

Where is he? I don't see anyone or anything - but no fears were there and the calmness and peacefulness remained. The only thing I heard was one short sentence, and he told me to come on! I was going - no doubt about it.

Then there was a loud rattle of paper, Paige was wrestling with a bag of chips - I slammed right back in my body again!

Oh My - I am more than annoyed now - it is high frustration! The pain is back and Paige is still up! I need to suffer alone, and really want to search for that place and who I believe to be God!

Another hour passed, with the same ole same ole occurring in my body. Help me is all I can think. I start praying and now I am feeling that floating sensation once again. The only difference now is that I am in complete darkness, but I am in no pain and it is still very tranquil. This is still very much all right by me. I will look for that light, and I did for a moment, until Paige startled me for the third and last time.

What I said next shocked me, as I yelled at her for not letting me get to God. I meant to say to her that I was trying to get to sleep. My guilt was now very high for yelling at her, and now my pain was also high again.

Within a few hours, I called Rusty to take me to the hospital. There we found the problem with my gallbladder. It is going to require surgery.

After having three out of body experiences in one night, I believe now I can relax a bit about my condition and this upcoming surgery.

God will never give us more than we can bear. I saw that, and I saw him sitting beside me as my friend. What a friend we have in Jesus - that song comes to my mind a lot now. Whatever fears we have, or questions too. God gives clarity and an insight that most will never know until moments like these happen. I have been blessed! My written account is what I leave here for others to know; at least I have an idea about the afterlife.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    'It was just a very emotional time for me. I broke up with boyfriend, and had come to my parents' home to grieve.'  Other 'I was not ill, but had a very emotional 2 weeks prior.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt highly conscious the entire time. I had never fallen asleep, in my opinion!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was not a thought or need.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were more vibrant, even though there was not that many.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't hear anything until the lady spoke to me, and her voice was soft.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Dark tunnel, with colors illuminating from the walls - deep purple and blue with gold metallic flakes within the walls.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A lady met me at the end of this tunnel, and as I stepped into the light, she said I had a choice, and that I was young.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was at the end of the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     just this mystical tunnel and the light, and how large the lighted surface appeared to be!

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful, calm, beauty - tranquil.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I stopped fearing death, as I had once not been able to even discuss or think about, and after this happened, my best friend came down with cancer, and I took care of him for over two years, he passed on when I was twenty-six. Now that I think about it - it prepared me for his illness and his departure.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I had a unique gift of knowing things that were about to happen, and I was pretty accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I stopped going to all formal church settings, and have raised my two girls on my beliefs that God is love, and that is what he expects us to do and feel to every situation and everyone.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I stopped going to all formal church settings, and have raised my two girls on my beliefs that God is love, and that is what he expects us to do and feel to every situation and everyone.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I just felt something I had never really felt - complete peacefulness, and sheer happiness.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes My level of care and concern for others became a focus in my life. I felt love for everyone; even more so than before.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Paranormal, psychic and now I have medium experiences.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That we are all a spirit, living in the vessel that we call our body and that there is peace and beauty very close by.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my father right away. After that it was ten years before I spoke of it again.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was able to feel that I really have choices in life, and that whatever I choose will be fine - just a different path will be taken with each choice.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was awake, no trauma, no drugs or alcohol were involved - so I couldn't blame my experience on anything other than reality.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Since this experience, I have had several near deaths - but no experience like that one. I have just become more intuitive and in the last year am able to see and communicate with the deceased for perfect strangers. It has been wild, but I feel now, that I have helped a few people deal with their loss of a loved one.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karyl_m_ndelike.html