{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kasandra_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Kasandra L NDE 2952","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kasandra L NDE 2952  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kasandra L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1037  Kasandra L NDE  2952  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I had been having many problems with my thyroid. It had swollen to the size of a grapefruit and I was having problems breathing. Going to an oncologist it was determined that the best course of action would be to have it removed.

Surgery was booked for 9-11 2001. Arriving at the hospital, I was prepped and put in the operating room preparation room. Drugged out of my mind a TV was put in front of me and on every channel, they were broadcasting the 9-11 events? How fantastic I thought, what an amazing movie!!! It must have cost a fortune to get all of these people to cast on?! WOW!!! I then proceeded to tell everybody about this great movie that was playing on every station. Then I was wheeled into the operating room and everybody kept telling me everything would be okay that nothing was going to happen? Everything was going to be all right. As I was going under I kept thinking, if everything is going to be all right, why is everybody so hysterical? The doctor was shaking, the nurses were crying, I kept thinking maybe being operated on 9-11 isn't such a good idea?

The next thing I remember was being awake and feeling the blood gush out of me with every heartbeat. It was very peaceful. Then my husband walked into the operating room recovery room and upon my sitting up blood started gushing out of my nose, eyes and mouth. He screamed for a nurse or somebody to come immediately. A nurse came into the room and screamed 'Oh my God she's bleeding to death internally she'll be dead in ten minutes!!!'

Well I thought to myself how cool. 'I'm going to die consciously. I had better get things in order.' So I started with my list of forgivenesses. And you cannot imagine all the people you need to forgive until there's a deadline of ten minutes in front of your face. The outpatient department determined that it was not equipped to handle the necessary second surgery so an ambulance was called. It was at this time that the road between the hospital and the outpatient department was under construction and there was no way an ambulance could get to me. The fire department was called and four big hefty guys carried me on a bed sheet from the outpatient department into the operating room of the hospital next door and placed into the operating room.

I watched my spirit lift out of my body, I lightly floated towards a tunnel, and then I entered into a tunnel. It was fantastic! I danced weightless around in this tunnel. I flipped and did gymnastics like a pro. There was a whooshing sound and it looked like clouds were floating in from the end of the tunnel where there was tremendous white light. Coming near to the end of the tunnel, I stepped into this white light. I felt like I was being enveloped with white fog. It was like how they fog a dance floor.

I remember thinking that God was over doing this white stuff and that the whole environment could use a little color. Nobody came to meet or greet me. I remember telling God that if he were busy that he could just direct me to the library and I would be more than happy to look up the meaning of my own life. No answer. And the white light just kept coming and coming. I remember then telling God, that if this were death it was a little BORING. I told God that he should remember that poverty, celibacy and boredom were nothing that I did very WELL... HELLO ARE YOU LISTENING TO ME? No Answer?

I became aware that there was a great knowledge being conveyed to me. I had a sense that all of this was not the right time. I remember feeling very frustrated and angry. I remember cursing God and then being slammed back into my body and jumping awake out of recovery an hour before such a thing was supposed to happen. I awoke to finding myself tied down to the bed with tubes everywhere. I chewed through the tube down my throat and then ripped it out.

I pulled the I.V. out of my arms. I was hysterical! Totally mad, totally enraged. These poor nurses and orderlies had gathered around me telling me that everything was all right now - they had saved me.

Oh yeah, and just who the hell asked you to? And I started to get ready to go home. I was insisting that all of these tubes needed to come out now and I was getting out!!! The doctor came in and gave me a sedative to settle me down so that my body could heal from the trauma. I was then sedated and put into the intensive care unit for three days.

While in the intensive care unit I visited 9-11. I saw up close and personal the flames that burned people alive. I was then shown a war about to happen in the Middle East. I saw oil fields blazing. I was shown a major flood. And I was told to move from the valley to a cooler climate.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 9-11-2001  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   We were in the throes of 9-11. The Twin Towers had just been bombed.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   While in the tunnel. I had a sense of hyper sensitivity.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While in the tunnel. I had a sense of hyper sensitivity.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     It seemed like I was there for hours.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I had a sense that even when my eyes were closed I could still see clearly.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was grey/dark with a white light and fog floating towards me.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brilliant white foggy light.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Frustration, anger, abandonment.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I learned that I wasn't particularly evolved.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From the world's future        Gulf War, Tsunami, and the fall of the world, as we know it.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believed that we have all been mind-controlled by religion.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believed that we have all been mind-controlled by religion.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt that information was communicated to me but I don't know what exactly.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes People seem very stupid for the most part.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my friends the very next time I saw them. They said that they expected as much from me. Ray said I talked too much about having died, he said nobody cared.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It just was exactly as I remembered it. Nothing has changed.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It just was as I described it nothing has changed.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kasandra_l_nde.html