{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karyn_e_fde.html","mytitle":"Karyn E FDE 6174","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karyn E FDE 6174  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karyn E FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			2938 Karyn E FDE 6174  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience was not like those that you usually read of.   It was quite simple. 

I knew when the tire blew while I was on the Interstate that I was going to lose control of the car.  I definitely heard a female voice say, 'there is nothing you can do,'   and I felt the most serene feeling of total peace and absolutely no fear.  I was knocked out after the first of four rolls.   I did not see anyone or experience a tunnel but I did feel complete knowing and bliss.  It was a feeling that honestly I cannot describe.  I felt no fears, worries, or feelings of loss and I saw a white light surround me.

I don't know if this would be considered a NDE but it was something that I cannot explain, especially the voice that sent me into this state of mind or whatever you would call it.  I now have this gnawing feeling that I am supposed to know something or find something out something.  I know how vague that sounds.   I rather feel stupid sharing this because I totally don't understand it.   I will forever remember the 'feeling'.   So many times when I am confused and depressed about the whole thing, I get mad because I feel that I was cheated out of death, which I now consider complete serenity and peace.   I do not have any thoughts of suicide by any means.     Only so much confusion as to what I am supposed to 'do'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/27/2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   A tire blow out that cause me to lose control of  my car on the Interstate and roll 4 times.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Knowing and feeling what I can only describe as the other side or another dimension and feeling complete peace.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I heard the voice.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw a white light surround me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Other than hearing the voice I heard nothing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Only the bubble of light that surrounded me after I heard the voice.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     Not a place but a 'state of being.'

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute peace and comfort.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have always been spiritual, not religious and I think I am just more secure in my spirituality.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Before ,   I was not certain about life beyond this existence  now I have felt it

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I don't believe that there is 'this guy up in heaven' that sits there and makes decisions and judges people.   I believe in a higher consciousness that is filled with love, understanding and caring.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard a female voice tell me, 'there is nothing you can do.'  I have no doubt that I heard that voice.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     awareness of consciousness beyond this life.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Only so much confusion as to what I am supposed to 'do' but I just don't know what at this time.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I didn't "see"  anything but the feeling was so strong, I have no doubt that ther is an after this life, ...life

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I don't believe that there is 'this guy up in heaven' that sits there and makes decisions and judges people.   I believe in a higher consciousness that is filled with love, understanding and caring.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am a little different personality wise.  Things don't bother me like they used to and people are getting used to that slowly.  I have lost some friends but I have gained some more and I have gained an experience that most people never will and I am grateful for that.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is pretty much straight forward but since, I cannot compare the feeling to anything I have ever felt.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember my experience  but I am having trouble with details of after the accident.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     None that I didn't have before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of peace.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared the voice and the bubble of light that surrounded me and people seemed to believe.  The 'feeling' though, I just can't put into words that would make any sense.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had common knowledge; though what I knew about NDE was nothing like what I experienced.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There just is no question about what I experienced.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     There just is no question about what I experienced.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karyn_e_fde.html