{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kate_nde.html","mytitle":"Kate NDE 7198","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kate NDE 7198  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kate NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3651 Kate NDE 7198  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a vacuum-like feeling. I was sucked into a field of unearthly brilliant color with a large tree to my right in the distance and feeling of a non-human escort companion on my left. It was a feeling that I did not have to worry about my children or anything that I was leaving behind. All would be well. All was well and good; but then, knowledge that I could not stay. 

I was aware of darkness without time, and then once again, the feeling of being thrown or sucked into this field of brightness, peace and knowledge. I was walking once again through the field with the beautiful tree on my distant right and companion/escort on my near left. I was happy to be back, only to feel the knowledge that I had to go back again and could not stay because I had work to do. There was no feeling of time. 

I awoke to feeling of suffocation, was in recovery on a breathing machine.  I felt extreme pain, burry vision and nurses' voices telling me that the machine was breathing for me. Three days later, I learned from my doctor that they 'lost' me twice. The last thing I remembered was hearing, while on the operating table, the doctor shouting that she wanted an incident report.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  02/04/94

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Childbirth.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   No blood pressure, no vitals, bleeding out after C'sarian-section. I had two experiences from losing vital signs twice.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard the doctor shouting.  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   No sense of time: Vivid

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   No sense of time

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt what I saw.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I felt communication: no hearing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Sucked, like in a vacuum through space

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light and color was not of earth.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was vivid field with a large tree on my right in the distance and the feeling of a guide on my left. I did not see my guide but felt it.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Regret that I could not stay but understanding that it was necessary that I return for now.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I felt I would understand everything: no worries.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Not certain why I saw this large beautiful tree in the distance (to right) but knowledge that it is central/significant - life giving.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I encountered a definite being, no voice: communication was felt.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     true peace

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     feeling that all was connected

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     Everything was one - united - equal

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Only knowing that everything was OK, not to worry.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     purpose is existence and existence has purpose

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     understood that there was more ahead

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     There is true inner peace that needs to be understood in our lives and can exist here with understanding.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Everything had a purpose

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love was acceptance of all. All has purpose

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life. Not afraid of death but concerned about the pain that can happen during the process.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   No words to describe the colors and feelings. I was not told things in words but instead felt and understood things without the use of language.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the visions and feelings like they just happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I seem to have better intuition.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All are significant

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Two years: they listened but maybe uncomfortable or skeptical

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened: not once but twice.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I went to the same place twice. I was told they 'lost' me twice.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kate_nde.html