{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V10 1901-2","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v10_1901-2.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V10 1901-2","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME X
1901-1902
.For Private Circulation among Members and
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
20, HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W
192823
No. CLXXV.—VOL. X. : ,1 -o JANUARY, 1901.
JOURNAL
J
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members, Honorary Associate, and Associates. * «• "t - . 1
Meetings of the Council. .-'-* 2
General Meeting. - . a
A Description of some Trick Methods used by Miss Bangs, of Chicago (Illustrated). By ' > •
the Rev. Stanley L. Krebs, A.M. With Introductory Note by Dr. R. Hodgson. • • 5
NEW MEMBERS, HONORARY ASSOCIATE, AND
ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
*ALRUTZ, DR. SYDNEY, Upsala, Sweden.
Bubna, Count Francis, Upton Towers, Slough, Bucks.
BURY, REV. THOMAS WILLIAM, M.A., 15, Linton Crescent, Hastings.
HOARE, MRS. HENRY, 1, Seymour-street, Portman-square, London, W.
HOLMES, REV. FRANCIS WILLIAM, B.A., Poplar, London, E.
HOLMES, MRS. F. W., Poplar, London, E.
HOOKER, JOSEPH STENSON, M.D., Clive Vale, Hastings.
JEAKES, REV. JAMES, M.A., Rectory, Hornsey, London, N.
METZGER, DANIEL, 12bis, Square de Champel, Geneva.
RUMSEY, CHARLES ALMERIC, M.A., 1, Allison-gardens, Dulwich
Common, S.E.
THOMAS, REV. C. D., High-street, Toddington, near Dunstable.
WIGAN, REV. HERBERT, M.A., Luddesdowne, near Gravesend.
Williams, Colonel S. De la Grange, Broomie Close, Sutton Cold-
field, Birmingham.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BOON, MRS. E. G., Villa Emilia, Alassio, Liguria, Italy.
BOWERS, E. S., 3520, Hartford-street, St. Louis, Mo.
HAND, Miss M. LILIAN, 413, Lynn-street, Yankton, S.D.
JAGGAR, RT. REV. THOS. A. (Bishop of Southern Ohio), Smith Cove,
Digby Co., Nova Scotia, Canada.
SCHLICHT, PAUL J., 149, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Journal of Socit.ty'-fi>r Psychical Research. [JAN., 1901.
OF THE COUNCIL.
. .
A meeting of the *Council was held at the rooms of the Society, 19,
Buckingham Sfte'et,' W.C., on December 14th. Mr. F. Podmore was
voted to the;ctair.' There were also present, the Hon. E. Feilding, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, and Dr.
A. Wallace.
Tfi£ jflinutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as correct.
TJt/'Sydney Alrutz, of Upsala, Sweden, was elected an Honorary
'.Associate for the coming year. ,
'._'. Two new Members and ten new Associates were elected; and the
. election of five new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Names and addresses are given above.
The resignation of two Members and twelve Associates, who, from
various causes, desired to withdraw from the Society at the end of the
year, was accepted. It was agreed to strike off the list the names of
two Members and eighteen Associates, who had either removed or been
lost sight of, or who had become only nominal members.
The names of the Members of Council who retire by rotation at the
end of the year were read over. The Assistant-Secretary was desired
to send out the necessary notices for the Annual Meeting of the Mem
bers of the Society, to be held at the Westminster Town Hall, on
Friday, January 25th, 1901, at 3 P.M.
The Council was informed that arrangements had been completed
with the newly constituted Westminster City Council for four General
Meetings on the dates provisionally agreed to at the last Council meet
ing, namely :—On Fridays, January 25th, 4 P.M., March 8th, 8.30 P.M.,
April 19th, 4 P.M., and May 17th, 8.30 P.M.
Several other matters of business having been disposed of, the Council
agreed that its next meeting should be at the Westminster Town Hall,
at the close of the Annual Meeting of Members on January 25th, 1901.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 110th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, December 14th, at 8.30 P.M.—Dr.
LLOYD TUCKEY in the chair.
MRS. A. W. VERRALL read a paper on the trance phenomena of
Mrs. Thompson, a non-professional sensitive who has been for some
years under the observation of Mr. Myers and other members of the
Society. The paper dealt only with the observations made by the
writer during a series of sittings between April, 1899, and July, 1900.
JAN., 1901.] General Meeting.
After a general description of the way in which information is con
veyed to the sitter—in the presence of a third person, who acts as
note-taker—by a supposed personality speaking through Mrs. Thompson,
who appears to be entranced, the paper went on to the classification
and criticism of the statements made. Statements referring to the
past or present, the truth of which was usually ascertainable, were
divided into three classes, according to results,—things true, things
false, and things unverified or unidentified. Under this latter head
were included not only statements that seemed to have no connection
with the sitter, but also such definite statements about friends of the
sitter as had not, owing to lapse of time or other causes, been able to be
verified. The total number of statements made to the sitter was 212 ;
of these 49 were classed as unverified, 29 as false, and 134 as true.
Illustrations were then given of the sorts of statements that were
made, with the object of showing that they were perfectly definite in
character and therefore easily classifiable. It was stated by the
sensitive, for instance, that a small operation had been performed on
a friend of the sitter, consisting in the removal of a needle or crochet-
hook by a red-faced little doctor (true) ; that a certain specified person
had one brother and two sisters living (partly true) ; and that a person
of a given name and description was intimate in a specified house
(false).
The 134 correct statements were then further divided into two
classes, according to the possibility of the information given having
been " normally acquired." Under the head of " normally acquired "
knowledge was classified all such information given about a sitter at
a second interview, as is to be obtained from books of reference, as
well as any facts that could have been learnt from letters, etc., unless
it was certain that the medium had had no possible access to them
either in the normal or abnormal condition. Of the 134 correct state
ments, 47 referred to matters that might have been normally learnt,
and 87 to such as could not. It therefore appeared that, after setting
aside unverified or vague remarks, incorrect assertions, and such correct
statements as were normally obtainable, there remained an irreducible
minimum of 87 statements, out of a total of 212, or rather more than
40 per cent., which were correct, and could not have been obtained by
the recognised means of information. This large percentage, taken in
conjunction with the definite nature of many of the assertions, would
seem to warrant the belief that Mrs. Thompson has some source of
information not generally accessible.
At present the evidence was not sufficient to determine the nature
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1901.
of such a source of information ; possibly the source is not always the
same. The correct statements made were grouped under four general
heads, and illustrative cases were quoted ; but the line of division
between the various classes was not always strongly marked, and the
classification must be regarded as tentative.
Under the first head—that of " things known to the sitter and
directly present in his consciousness "—fall all statements as to objects
brought by the sitter, and all characteristic descriptions of the sitter's
friends, when once there has been identification of the person described.
Further, under this head would come some instances—not numerous,
but very clearly marked—of apparent direct telepathy between the
sitter and the communicating personality, shown by a direct response
from the sensitive to an unexpressed thought in the sitter's mind.
The second class—" things known to the sitter, but not immediately
at the moment present to his consciousness"—is a very large one,
containing the greater part of the facts correctly given. Statements
were made about a dead friend of the sitter, which were accurate and.
definite ; they were characteristic, but they were not present in the
sitter's mind, nor what the sitter would have selected had she wished
to recall memories of the friend in question to a third person. Details
of dress and personal habits were described; but the more intimate
and deeply-marked traits for which the sitter looked when the identi
fication had been made were conspicuously wanting. Telepathy might
have been a contributing cause, but there seemed no reason to assign
the statements falling under the second head to direct telepathy from
the mind of the sitter.
The third class consist of " things that have been well known to
the sitter, but are at the moment so far forgotten as to be recalled only
by the statements of the sensitive." The distinction between this class
and the preceding one was not always clearly marked, but cases were
given where childish recollections of bygone events were evoked by
definite observations of the sensitive that at first were hardly intelligible
to the sitter.
The fourth class—"things unknown to the sitter"—though small,
is very interesting, as telepathy cannot be assigned as the cause,
unless a very much wider significance be given to the word than has
hitherto been done. Communication with the mind of the sitter could
not explain the correctness of statements demonstrably unknown to the
sitter's consciousness, as was the case with some of the statements, ten
in all, falling into the fourth category. Details of some of these cases
were given, and it appeared that in a series of correct statements made
JAN., 1901.j General Meeting.
about the relatives of a certain Mr. A., some of the facts were unknown
to him, though known to other living persons who had never heard of
Mrs. Thompson at the time of the sitting, while two were unknown, so
far as can be ascertained, to any living persons, until a careful search,
following the lines indicated by the sensitive, had discovered them.
All the facts were familiar to the dead relative from whom the com
municating personality claimed to derive them.
To sum up, it would seem that the information possessed by the
sensitive is often possessed by the sitter, but not always. The know
ledge of the sitter would appear occasionally to pass readily to the
sensitive ; but usually the statements made were not such as the sitter
expected, and a curious impression was often produced that the things
were regarded not from the sitter's, but from another point of view.
Where the knowledge shown was not possessed by the sitter, it was
generally known to other living persons ; but that would necessarily be
the case with almost all verifiable statements. These living persons
were unknown to the sensitive, and had never heard of her. Much of
the knowledge shown had been possessed by the dead, and thus, in at
least some cases, unless we were to suppose that the sensitive was able,
as it were, to look up facts in a spiritual encyclopaedia, we were left to
choose between the likelihood of telepathy from the mind of an unknown
living person to whom the thoughts of the sensitive had not been
directed, and communication from the dead. But before deciding in
favour of any theory so new as either of these, more evidence was
required ; at present all that could be done was to collect and record
the facts, and wait for further developments.
A paper by the REV. STANLEY L. KREBS, entitled " A Description of
some Trick Methods used by Miss Bangs, of Chicago," was then read
by MR. FRANK PODMORE. This paper is printed below.
A DESCRIPTION OF SOME TRICK METHODS USED BY
MISS BANGS, OF CHICAGO.
BY THE REV. STANLEY L. KREBS, A.M.
With Introductory Note by DR. R. HODGSON.
[MANY of our members will doubtless recollect that about fourteen
years ago there was a good deal of discussion in our Journal and
Proceedings concerning the value of human testimony as offered for
certain alleged supernormal physical phenomena, and especially for
so-called independent slate-writing. The result of our investiga
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1901.
tions made at that time, with the assistance of Mr. S. J. Davey,
led us to the conclusion that the bulk of this testimony must be
regarded as worthless. The ordinary accounts of such phenomena,
which are still frequent in Spiritualistic magazines, especially in
America, do not afford the slightest presumption in favour of the
alleged medium's genuineness, and prove mainly that the persons
who give the accounts . are completely oblivious to what constitutes
evidence in the matter.
There are, however, many not altogether unintelligent people
who fail to appreciate the full significance of this position, and
who are more impressed by a detailed description of how the trick
is done, than by a proof that the record offered by some particular
believer belongs to a class that is valueless.
I think it may be well, therefore, not only to remind our members
occasionally of the possibilities of trickery in general, and of the
intrinsic inadequacy of the testimony commonly offered for the
"physical phenomena of Spiritualism," but to explain in detail the
modus operandi of any specially new devices or ingenious variations
of old ones that come under our notice as actually practised by spurious
mediums.
The "Bangs Sisters," as they are commonly called in America—
Miss May Bangs and Miss Lizzie Bangs—are still apparently flourishing
in Chicago, Illinois, notwithstanding several exposures of their trickery.
The late Colonel Bundy gave accounts of these exposures in the Religio-
Philosophical Journal, and I had occasion to repeat some of the evidence
of these in Light (May 13th and May 20th, 1899), but so far as I am
aware, no description has yet been published of their methods of pro
ducing fraudulent spirit letter-writing. The following account of these
methods is extracted from a report made to the American Branch of
the Society in October, 1900, by the Eev. Stanley L. Krebs, A.M., of
Reading, Pa., entitled " Some of the Frauds of Spiritualism : A Plain
Statement of Things Seen and Heard at seances during the years
1898 to 1900." The report is written in a popular style and will
probably appear in full elsewhere. It contains references to some
other mediums,—P. L. 0. A. Keeler and the Campbell brothers, who
avoided giving Mr. Krebs sittings,—and describes some tricks of the
notorious Slade. All that I quote here is Mr. Krebs' description—
slightly abridged—-of a sitting with one of the Bangs Sisters, omit
ting his consideration of the handwritings of the alleged spirit-
communications, and the confirmatory evidence furnished to him by
other witnesses. E. HODGSON.]
JAM., 1901.] Some Trick Methods used by Miss Bangs. 7
Mr. Krebs, after some introductory remarks, states that he was
furnished with the following letter of introduction from Mr. J. R.
Francis, editor of The Progressive Thinker :
40 Loomis St., Chicago, June 3, 1899.
Miss LIZZIE BANGS :
Dear Madam,—The bearer of this, Rev. Stanley L. Krebs, is a
prominent minister of Reading, Pa. I have called his attention to your
excellent mediumship. He is very sceptical, hence it will be well for you to
give him special attention. In so doing you will confer a great favour on
me.—Fraternally, J. R. FRANCIS.
Mr. Krebs secured an appointment for his visit, and writes :—
October 10th, 1900.
... I appeared a few days subsequently at their handsome residence at the
appointed hour, and for one hour and a half enjoyed the long coveted
opportunity of witnessing for myself some of the phenomena I had heard
and read so much about.
The Bangs sisters represent and produce nearly all phases of mediumship,
slate-writing, spirit letter-writing, portrait-painting, materializations, trum
pet s6ances, etc., etc. I selected spirit letter-writing, and here is what
apparently happens according to the many accounts I had read and likewise
heard from the lips of awe-struck witnesses.
In the privacy of your own home, on a blank sheet of ordinary letter
paper, you write down three or four questions to as many deceased friends,
or to one or two, just as you desire, addressing them by name and signing
your own name to the questions. Enclosing this in an envelope with three
or four blank sheets for the "spirit" messages or replies, you seal your
envelope, and, if you wish, place some secret mark on it, to render
identification easier and surer, and at the same time to guard against fraud
by the simple trick of substitution. Seated at an ordinary square table,
which you are free to examine thoroughly, in the presence and indeed
at the request of the medium, you place your letter between two slates,
which the medium then binds about longitudinally and transversely with
heavy, broad and powerful rubber bands, or strong twine. (See cut No. 1.)
These slates never leave your sight ; indeed, you may keep your fingers
resting upon them during the entire time of the s6ance, so that touch
reinforces sight in proving that the slates never leave the top of the table
where you place them. . . . You and she, seated on opposite sides of the
table, then hold the slates between you, above the table, of course, in full
sight, until the " current," as she calls it, sets in, which you feel as a slight
vibration or tremor in the slates and in your arms. The slates are again
placed on the table. You are then requested by the medium to write
another short message, such as, " Please communicate," to any dead friend,
on a small piece of paper, sign your name to it and fold it up when written.
. . . She turns her back while you write this note, to prove—as she informs
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1901.
you—that there is no such thing on her part as reading what you write.
This note, when folded up, the medium requests you to hand her. She
immediately places it on top of the two bound slates, and lays another slate
over it. (See cut 2.) You both sit quietly for awhile in silence, or else
in easy conversation on any subject that happens to suggest itself. After a
few minutes the medium picks up one of several letter tablets lying about
on the table, and announces that she sees, " clairvoyantly," in letters of
fire, in the air over your head the name of some one. She gets the initials
first, and finally the full name, and sure enough, it is the very name
you had just written a moment or two before on the small note. You feel
astonished, and will you or nill you, awe-struck. These emotions are
accentuated when, in fifteen or twenty minutes, she gives the name of
another "spirit," which turns out to be one of those to whom you had
addressed questions in the sealed envelope, now a prisoner between the two
bound slates. She goes on to give the substance and even the very language
of the question which you had put to the spirit, and these surprising
proceedings continue until all the "spirits" are named, and all the questions
in the sealed letter stated correctly by the medium sitting before you
with the slates still on the table where you had placed them.
After sitting a few minutes more in silence, holding slates between you,
three raps on them or somewhere about the table constitute the signal that
the " spirits " or " guide " have finished their mystic labour ; whereupon the
medium hands you the pile of slates, which, please remember, has never, all
this time, left your hand or eye. You remove the upper slate, expecting to
see your note under it, but, lo ! it has vanished completely ! With concealed
excitement you unbind the remaining two slates, pick up your envelope,
which you find all right within them, carefully examine it—size, colour,
shade, spots, specks, secret mark and all—thus thoroughly identifying it as
the very one you had brought with you, and no mistake about that—then
you open it, andfind the note, just as you hadfolded it, hidden away between
the sheets of letter paper, and to crown all, these sheets filled with writing in
ink \ This, of itself, is a sufficient miracle, and you at first do not care much
for the sense or thought of the writing. You are simply overwhelmed with
the fact, patent, plain, and puissant, that chirography, enough to fill six or eight
pages of letter paper, has been executed in a sealed envelope between fast-bound
slates under your very eyes and liands, and that a piece of paper placed above
has, somehow, in some way, by some means, passed through a solid slate (as
the medium indeed assure* you it has), and has appeared intact in a tightly
sealed envelope bound between two slates. Finally, you examine the sense of
the communications and find it intelligent and A propos to the matters
inquired about, and many people assert that frequently information is given,
such as names of friends and incidents of the past, which is entirely unknown
to the medium—as far as they know at least—and which could not, therefore,
have been furnished in the "spirit-writing" by her.
I am here describing my first experiences, for I had two seances with the
Bangs sisters at an interval of one year. The reader who has never
JAN., 1901.] Some Trick Methods used by Miss Bangs. 9
.experienced a seance such as this, can scarcely form an adequate conception
of the feelings of awe and wonder that steal across the inind. The remark
able results, the silent surroundings, the comments of the medium, the
entire ensemble—these impress one at once and almost to the point of convic
tion, aud I could easily mention the names of many highly educated and
cultured people that have felt dazed and nonplussed, despite themselves,
aud notwithstanding the fortifications of their own doubts and previous
sneers at the whole subject. During the decade or more that the Bangs
«isters have been holding seances, dozens and hundreds have gone there
.convinced that the whole thing was a trick and a humbug, and determined
to discover the secret, but have come away sadder if not wiser men, either
fully convinced the other way, or, like Dr. F , confessing their utter
inability to explain it, understand it, or remotely guess as to the nature of
the powers at play therein, whether celestial, human, or diabolical.
Now let vis turn from what apparently happens and see what real!//
happens.
I went, on the occasion alluded to in Chicago, with great expectations, and
indeed (to be strictly honest both with myself and my reader), in hopes,
in fond hopes, that the claim of Spiritualism would be found to be true ;
nevertheless, I also provided as far as possible against fraud, for all of us
have an innate horror of being duped, even if harmlessly so, but especially
and particularly when we pay hard cash for the duping into the bargain !
Thinking, therefore, that the table might be used (as in a former case
which I shall narrate later on), simply as a screen for operations of a
fraudulent nature, I armed myself with a small, rectangular looking-glass,
three by four inches in size, and secreted it under the front part of my vest,
so as to have it convenient for unobserved production, if needed, when seated
.at the table. I came within an inch, literally, of precipitating a catastrophe
and spoiling the whole experiment and losing my opportunity, for the glass
almost slipped from me several times while walking about the room prior to
the seance. When seated, the doubling of the body kept it snugly in place.
At the request of Miss Bangs I examined the table thoroughly and the
cloth upon it. Both are sound. There are no mechanical tricks or devices
about them. I suggested sitting without the cloth, for it fell down five or
more inches all around the table and I feared it would obstruct my view in
the glass of the space beneath. To this proposition Miss Bangs positively
demurred, and it was this demurrer that aroused my suspicions on this
occasion and determined me to be as open-eyed as possible ; and vet I tried
to be as easy and unsuspecting as I could, so as not to arouse her suspicions
of me or of my intentions.
When we were both seated at the table I got my sealed and marked
envelope out of my coat pocket and handed it to her, at her request. She
felt it and said it was a fat letter, and asked how many sheets I had in it. I
told her six or eight. She said four was the usual number, but she would
try for results with the letter as it was. In my sight she then placed it
between the two slates and bound them, as seen in cut No. 1.
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1901.
While she was doing this, with my eyes riveted upon her every movement,
I slipped the mirror out from under my vest, and adjusted it in my lap,
holding it between my legs at such an angle,—moving it from time to time as
needed with my right hand,—that I could clearly see everything under the
table, and beyond it to the door between the two rooms, and the medium's
lap ; for, fortunately, the table cover, instead of completely hiding her lap,
came down to within an inch or two of it along the line of vision from the
glass, while I held up my side of the cover with my left thumb, allowing the
fingers of my left hand to lie at ease, in a natural position of rest, on the top
at the edge of the table, in sight of the medium. I did this to remove any
suspicions she might form that anything crooked was going on at my side of
the table (see cut No. 3 for all these details). And in order to deepen this
impression and her sense of security, I at times placed the right hand also on
the table, held the slates with it, touched them, etc.
And thus we sat, she watching me, and I watching her, and yet eacli
believing the other to be innocent and unsuspecting !
When the two bound slates were on the table (with my sealed envelope
between them), she picked them up and asked me to hold them with her.
So we held them between us about a foot above the table. I soon felt a
slight but distinct vibration or tremor, which is easily explained as thfr
result of muscular tension exerted by the medium, and is a very common
phenomenon that any one can produce. But I thought I would ask the
medium and see what she might have to say about it. She said it was
" magnetism," " spirit power," " the current," for which she was waiting, and
it constituted a sign, said she, that the "spirits" were present and that we
would have good results (!). This remark prepared me for more fraud.
And I got it, by the wholesale. But I never expected, even then, to make
the full and complete discovery of the entire modus operandi of the compli
cated trick, as I actually did.
After this she picked up one of the several large letter tablets lying around
on her side of the table, and moving it over so as to cover about one half of the:
bound slates (note this), and gazing mysteriously into the air, said she saw a
letter S ; soon another letter, L, appeared to her, and then a third, K ;
whereupon she asked me whether they were the initials of any person I
knew. " Yes," I replied, " they are. They are my own initials." " Ah ! is
that so ?" she exclaimed. "But you knew my name," I ventured to assert,
" from the letter of introduction of Mr. Francis." " No, I did not read it, a»
it was addressed to my sister," was her answer. Now mark ; this whole
manoeuvre of the clairvoyant initials was simply a ruse to divert my atten
tion from the movement of the letter tablet over the end of the slates, which
to all appearances seemed a perfectly natural movement on her part as she
leaned forward over the table and looked up into the air for the initials.
What the purpose of the tablet in this position over her end of the slates
was we will discover in a moment.
To resume. After the initial incident, she removed the tablet, picked up
the slates, and we held them between us " to develop power."
FIG. 1. Kin. 2.
Fio. 4.
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1901.
After this, she requested me to prepare a note on a small piece of paper,
which she handed me (size of half an envelope), and address it to some one
in spirit-life. She said she would turn her back while I was writing it, so as
to preclude any possibility of her seeing what I should write, or the name.
When she had turned her back, and while I was engaged in writing the note
(which I addressed to " Mary Smith," asking her to " please communicate"),
suddenly a happy thought struck me. I quickly reached over, carefully
picked up the two bound slates and rapidly and silently turning the ends
lying towards her up before my eyes, almost caused those organs to leap out
of their sockets with astonishment when they saw a small wedge sticking
between the slates, thus prising them open mde enough to allow not too fat a
letter to slide out through the space thus made between them ! ' (The situation
at this exciting and critical moment of discovery is shown in cut No. 4.)
Upon this discovery my excitement was great. It was a critical moment.
She might turn at any second. And knowing this much, I longed to dis
cover the entire secret. So quickly and noiselessly I replaced the slates,
finished my note, told her I was through, folded the note three or four times
at her request, and handed it to her.
Let us look back now a moment, and see how this discovery explains
the purpose of the ruse of the clairvoyant initials', S.L.K. It was to get the
tablet over the slates while the attention of the sitter is diverted to thought
on the initials and their meaning, and under cover of the tablet push the wedge
into place. It is an easy matter to slip the wedge between the slates, for it
is made of such dimensions—about the thickness of a lead-pencil and about
2i or 3 inches long (see cut No. 5)—that when lying on the table its point is
just high enough to strike the crack or line of junction between the bound
slates, and the latter, being bound with rubber bands, easily give place to it,
and even if tied with twine can readily be prised apart, inasmuch as the
knots would give a little and the fibres and twists in the twine would too, as
the force of the wedge is very great, according to well-known mechanical
principles. Moreover the edges of the two slates at the line of junction
were not flush, because the frames of the slates were rounded on the outside.
Hence, when placed together, a re-entrant angle was formed, so that the
wedge as it was pushed along under the letter tablet on the table could readily
find hold or point of application, i.e. strike the crack before mentioned, and
thus readily prise apart the slates (see cut No. 5, which shows rounded ends
of slate frames).
To proceed. Remember I had just finished my " Mary Smith " note and
handed it to her. She took it, and after putting a small blot of ink on it,
which she said the "spirits" would use in producing the writing, with her
1 In examining the slates with her permission before the seance began, I had noticed
the curious fact that the wooden frames were whittled or planed down on the sides
which she was careful to turn inwards, the frame being thus made flush with the slate
proper. We now see the purpose of this, namely, to avoid catching the letter on the
corner of the wooden frame, and thus to smooth the wny for it to slide out the more
readily and surely.
JAN., 1901.] Some Trick Methods used by Miss Bangs. 13
right hand she dropped or threw it, with assumed carelessness but really
with considerable dexterity, upon the centre of the upper of the two bound
slates apparently (that is, a careless or excited observer would have thought
it had dropped into the centre of the slate, but it actually fell on the wooden
frame of the slate with about one-half inch of the note projecting beyond the
frame, and instantly, yea, almost in one and the same moment or act, she
covered slates and note with a third slate that she had picked up with her
left hand, and which was larger than the lower two slates, and projected about
une inch all round, thus effectually hiding the projecting half inch of the note.
But at this point I, eagerly wishing to see the whale process repeated in
order to be doubly sure of my details, and wishing to get another chance
to see the wedge and whether the letter was at this stage still between the
slates or not, told her (which was true, too) that I had written the note
in such a hurry that I was afraid neither the "spirits" nor I could read
it. She said I certainly ought to write plainly, and "moreover," she added,
.' I do not think you held the note long enough to magnetize it."
Thereupon she lifted the top slate off, brushing the note off with it, which
fell on the table beside the two bound slates, handed me another small
piece of paper, and turned her back. Steadily and rapidly I raised and
turned the slates, as before described, and this time not only saw but felt
the wedge, estimated its size and shape, and gazed into the space between
the slates. The letter was not there. All this took but a second or two.
How well I remember my suppressed excitement ! However, I calmly
replaced the slates, wrote the note to " Mary Smith," folded it, and more
carefully, though with assumed indifference to her, watched her as she took
it, placed ink blot on it as before, and then dropped it on frame of upper
slate in such wise as to leave half an inch of it projecting outwardly,
and simultaneously covered it with the large slate.
But before proceeding, let us see how the letter was removed. It was as
follows : At the end of the paragraph about the clairvoyant initials S.L.K.,
I said, " She then picked up the slates." Remember, at that point they
already had the wedge between them, which she had just pushed into place.
She moved the slates carelessly and naturally (talking all the while), towards
her end or edge of the table, and there tilted them up a moment (a brief
moment, so brief it would not have attracted the attention, much less
aroused the suspicion, of the average or careless or believing sitter, especially
when that sitter's attention was diverted to what she was saying in her
voluble talk), so that the letter could not help sliding down into her lap,
all unobserved. And there is where the letter is lying at the stage of the
proceedings to which we have arrived. I know it was there—first from the
negative evidence that it was not between the two slates, and secondly from
the extremely positive evidence that / saic it in my little looking-glass under
the table.
We now proceed. First, recognize the situation : The sealed letter is in
her lap and the note to "Mary Smith " projecting under the large upper or
third slate. Recourse is again had to the tablets. Pretending to see some
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1901.
more initials in the air and to write them down on the tablet, she straightened
herself up in her chair, and thus carelessly moved the tablet over the pile of
the three slates, and with the finger of her right hand under the tablet, she
slips the projecting note out and holding it up against the under side of the
tablet removes it to her lap as easy as you please, while she asks me to think
who the new initials stand for. And whilst I am trying to think (for they
stand for nobody, being any letters that first enter her head), she deliberately
unfolds the note in her lap, looks down and reads it. Then, apparently to
secure a more restful position in her chair, but really with a view to what is
afterwards seen to be a critical movement in the cltain of processes, she turns
half round to the right towards the door which in our preliminary conver
sation she had told me connected the room with the house of her sister, half
rises, spreads out her skirts, and resumes her seat, facing the door, however.
<See cut 3).
At this point an unexpected digression occurred which came very near
spoiling the whole affair. I was so eager to observe her every movement
At this stage of the game, so anxious to discover the remaining secret—
namely, how the writing was done inside a sealed envelope, which would round
out the whole trick and my discovery as well—that I must have gazed too
persistently and intently down into my lap-glass, for she suddenly exclaimed,
looking directly and searchingly at me, " Have you a looking-glass in your
lap?" I had presence of mind enough to reply, "Why, what makes you
think so ? Because I look down '!. The fact is 1 have studied hypnotism
,a little, and having heard that mediums sometimes hypnotise their visitors,
and desiring on this most interesting occasion to keep a clear head, and
make a fair and impartial investigation, I did not wish to expose myself
to the power of your eyes, whether you can hypnotise or not." Whether
this idea satisfied her reason or tickled her vanity I do not know, but it
had the much-desired effect of allaying her suspicions and allowing the
proceedings to go on.
We now pick up the thread of the narrative where the medium, with the
sealed letter in her lap, and the "Mary Smith" note too, which she had
just secured in the manner above described, had turned toward her sister's
door. That sister, or some other accomplice, was just on the other side of that
door waiting to do her part. The sealed letter and the note must be gotten
.over to her, the letter opened, the questions answered as her ingenuity might
.suggest, and as she was aided by overhearing any answers that the sitter
anight make to the questions of the medium ; the letter must then be
resealed and gotten back again to the medium and into the slates. How was
.all this to be done ? Well, I tried to keep my eyes both above and below
.the table, and on the medium's eyes too as often as she looked at me after what
hadjust happened. What I succeeded in seeing was this. Miss Bangs picked
up a tablet (as usual, a new act begins with a tablet), and saw the name
-" Mary " in letters of fire in the air. " Do you know a Mary in spirit-life ? "
was asked. " Yes." " Does her last name begin with the letter S ? " "It
-does." " Let me see ; I'll try to get the whole last name. Is it Smuggle ?—
JAN., 19(11.] Some Trick Methods used by Miss Bangs. 15
No. Shrive ?—No. Simmer ?^No. Oh, yes, I see it now ; it is Smith.
Do you know any one in spirit-life by the name of Mary Smith?" This,
remember, is the name I had written on the note. Another sitter would
have been surprised at her knowledge of it, as I was the first time I had
a seance with Miss Bangs ; but as I was now familiar with the peregrina
tions of that note I was not surprised a bit, though I pretended to be,
in order to allay her suspicions. And now, notice, it was the moment while
I was labouring under the crest of this wave of mimic surprise, which she,
however, judged to be genuine, that she chose to deliberately stoop down,
place the sealed letter on something dark-coloured, and about half-a-foot wide
or less on the floor, which was in a moment or two drawn backward, and
disappeared with the letter and note on it under the closed door.
My Miss Bangs then, i.e. the visible Miss Bangs, i.e. the Miss Bangs
on the hitherward side of the door, immediately began to see more
clairvoyant letters and messages, such as that I wanted " Mary " " to com
municate." She then asked me a lot of questions about "Mary," whether
she was my sister, aunt, cousin, how long dead, married or single, etc., etc.
This consumed eight or ten minutes of time. In the midst of it I heard a
slight sliding sound, and instantly looked into my glass as Miss Bangs, as
though to change her position in her chair, stooped forward toward the door.
I saw her pick up a small piece of paper from that before-mentioned dark-
coloured slide on the floor at the door, place it in her lap and read it ; where
upon she immediately began to see more clairvoyant names in the air, a
number of them, in fact, and, in short, mentioned all the names I had written
in my sealed letter, giving them exactly, name for name, letter for letter, as
well as the substance of the questions I had asked of each one. She asked
me a good many questions about " Jack " and about " Mary S." and
" Youkers," evidently because the questions I had written to these " spirits "
were difficult to answer, and she wanted to elicit as much information as
possible from me regarding them, in the hope that I would let fall some
remark or hint that would enable her sister, who was listening at the door,
to frame a passably suitable reply for the letters, all of which, of course, she
wrote in the other room on the blank sheets provided for the "spirit" replies.
All this manoauvring consumed considerable time, time enough to do twice
as much writing as was actually done.
At last I saw, through the glass, the letter thrust through beneath the
door on the dark slide, and safely lodged in Miss Bangs' lap. Now, how is
she going to get it back between the slates 1 The thoughtful reader may easily
judge in advance, namely, with the tablets, of course. Even so. She coolly
placed one tablet against her end of the lowest slate, which tablet was just
as thick as the slate, so as to bring its upper surface even with the crack or
opening between the two bound and wedged slates. Under another tablet
she held the letter fast by a finger or two, and after placing this second
tablet over the other one, and partly, too, over the pile of slates, easily, with
a quick fillip of the finger reinforced by a lead pencil, which she deliberately
used to push the letter in, slid the letter back into place between the slates,
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1901-
withdrew the wedge between her fingers under the tablet, removed the-
tablets, and all was done, in far leas time, too, than it takes to tell it.
After the wedge is withdrawn, we hold the slates between us as we-
did at the outset, and in a moment or two three faint raps are heard—
easily made by the finger nails on the hard slate—which she announces
as the "spirit" signal that the messages are written and all is over, "the
spirits have done their work." I took off the upper slate. The note was,
of course, gone. I untied the other two slates, and found the letter there
with the note inside it and messages in reply to the questions I had asked.
Does any one wonder how Miss Bangs No. 2 opened the sealed letter
without tearing the paper or otherwise marking or disfiguring the envelope '!
This is a very simple matter, as I have since ascertained by repeated
experiment. Just wet the sealed envelope along the lap or line of mucilage,
and let it stand three or four minutes, when it will open almost of itself.
Take off the water with a blotter, or iron over the blotter with a hot
iron, which dries the lap sufficiently to permit resealing. The fold will
bring it down with accuracy upon the place it occupied before, and thus
any crosses or other marks put on it will fall exactly into their places.
Or the letter can be opened by steaming the lap.
In conclusion, this is the whole of the trick, this the secret of the fraud,
Et consists of various stages of development, carefully thought out, naturally
connected, cleverly executed. The tablets form one of the most essential
features, the wedge another, the crack under the door a third, and all else
is grouped around these.
On this particular occasion, after the whole was over, I arose and
thanked Miss Bangs for the most interesting exhibition she had given
me, whereupon she kindly offered still more, namely, to take me into her
sister's house and show me the " spirit portraits " there. This was precisely
the one thing I still desired, the only thing remaining to complete the
discovery thus far made, for I wanted to get near the door, which was
on her side of the table, in order to see how the letter and notes were passed
through it. At her offer, therefore, I instantly stepped over near the
door, engaging her in conversation about some trivial matter on the wall
in order to prevent her opening it at once, and there I saw that the door
was uneven, fitting close to the carpet at the hinge side, but being fully
a half inch or more away from the floor at the knob side, just in front of
which Miss Bangs sat during the entire seance, thus making a crack wide
enough to pass even larger packets to and fro than a letter and a note.
This opening is hidden from the eyes of the sitter at the table by an
innocent-looking waste-paper basket, which is shown in cut No. 3.
As Miss Bangs opened the door I caught a glimpse of her sister, a woman
older and larger than herself, who at that particular moment, with a look of
surprise and annoyance on her face, was flying out of the opposite door into
the hall way, where she disappeared up the stairs, evidently not relishing a
meeting with Dr. Francis' friend at that particular moment.
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS.
Frederic W. H. Myers, born February 6th, 1843, died January
17th, 1901 ; formerly Fellow of Trinity College, Cam
bridge; Honorary Secretary of the Society for Psychical
Research, 1888-1899; President of the Society, 1900.
Commemorative Addresses by Dr. Oliver Lodge and others
will be delivered at the next General Meeting, on March
8th, and afterwards published in the Proceedings.
POSTPONEMENT OF MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
ON ACCOUNT OF THE DEATH OF THE QUEEN.
In consequence of the Death of the Queen, the meetings
arranged for Friday, January 25th, as announced in the last
number of the Journal, were postponed.
No. CLXXVI.—VoL. X. FEBRUARY, 1901.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTEXTS.
PAGE
Notes on the Progress of Psychical Research. IS
A Musical Prodigy. .---20
Cases. 22
NOTES ON THE PROGRESS OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Our readers will remember that in the Journal for last July we drew
their attention to the foundation of an International Psychical Institute
in Paris. In the Bulletin Universel des Congres for December, 1900, it
was announced that a series of lectures, followed by discussions, would
be held this spring under the auspices of the Psychical Institute at
their rooms in the H6tel des Societes Savantes, rue Serpente. The
list of lecturers and subjects of discussion at these meetings has now
been issued, and is as follows :—
M. Duclaux de Flnstitut, Directeur de 1'Institut Pasteur—" Opinions
d'un profane."
M. Bergson, professeur au College de France—" Le Reve."
M. Frank N. Hales, de 1'Universite de Cambridge, dele'gue' de la
Society for Psychical Research—"Histoire de la Society for Psychical
Research."
M. Dussaud, docteur es-scierices—" Demonstration d'appareils appli-
cables a la psychologic."
Dr. Pierre Janet, Directeur du Laboratoire de Psychologie a la
Salpetriere—" line extatique."
M. Van Gehuchten, professeur a la faculte de Medecine de Louvain—
" Les voies sensitives."
M. Charles Richet, membre de 1'Academie de Medecine, professeur
de physiologic a la Faculte' de Medecine—" L'histoire des Sciences et la
psychologie."
Dr. Joire, de Lille—" Les applications pratiques de 1'hypnotisme et
la suggestion moralisatrice."
M. Se"ailles, professeur a 1'Universite de Paris—"Rapport de la
psychologic experimentale avec la psychologic introspective."
FEB., 1901.] Notes on the Progress of Psychical Research. 19
M. le Dr. Ochorowicz, de Varsovie—" Les applications de la
psychologic a la medecine."
M. Tarde, professeur au College de France—"Rapport de la
psychologic individuelle avec la psychologic sociale."
M. Boirac—" Conductibilite de la force psychique."
Other lectures, of which the titles have not yet been announced, will
be given by M. d'Arsonval, of the Institute, Professor at the College
de France, Dr. Vogt of Berlin, Dr. Milne Bramwell of London, Dr.
Crocq of Brussels, and others.
It is not only in Paris that the new century opens with a promise of
increased activity in the direction of Psychical Research. In the Arena
for December, 1900, Professor J. H. Hyslop of Columbia University,
New York, briefly reviews the work that has been done in the last
eighteen years by the Society for Psychical Research, both in England
and in America, and appeals to the public for an adequate endowment
to provide a complete organisation for the continuance of that work, and
to place it on a more scientific and permanent basis. The investigations
already carried out, in particular in the Piper case, show, in his view,
that the phenomena represented in apparitions, mediumship, and
secondary personality—this latter including certain forms of insanity—
are fit subjects for scientific study. Such study requires the mainten
ance of a permanent staff and of a psychopathic hospital, and for these
purposes a large endowment is required.
Professor Hyslop urges that the time has come when the study of
these subjects should be systematically pursued by experts, and declares
it to be a scandal of the scientific world that a field which promises the
best results for humanity, whether spiritism be ultimately accepted
or refuted, is unable to receive due attention, while expeditions to the
North Pole and deep-sea dredgings can obtain their millions with no
apparent difficulty. He makes suggestions as to ways in which the
endowment might be made, and invites communications from all dis
posed to contribute to such an endowment if adequate provision against
misuse were guaranteed.
Even if Professor Hyslop's appeal is not successful in obtaining the
material support for which he asks, it cannot but do service in drawing
attention to the claims of the subject to scientific recognition, and to
the drawbacks and even dangers likely to arise if the existing condi
tions of investigation are indefinitely prolonged.
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1901.
A MUSICAL PRODIGY.
THE last number of the Annales des Sciences Psychiques for 1900
contains an interesting paper by Professor Richet on a case of musical
precocity. The paper was read by him at Paris during the Inter
national Congress of Psychology, where it was followed by a perform-
'ance on the part of the child whose powers are described. The boy
in question is Spanish ; his name is Pepito Rodriguez Arriola, and at
the date of the Congress he was three years and eight months old,
having been born on December 14th, 1896.
There seems to have been musical talent in his mother's family.
His mother plays the piano well ; but it is difficult to find a parallel,
even among the doubtfully authentic tales of early manifestations by
musicians of their special faculties, for the extraordinary performances
of Pepito. The account of his earliest efforts comes from his mother,
who relates how, at the age of two and a half years, without any
suggestion from her, he one day when alone played on the piano a
musical composition which she had recently practised frequently.
From this time onwards he made rapid progress, and at the age of
three years and twelve days performed in Madrid before the King of
Spain and the Queen Regent.
According to Professor Richet, the child presents no special charac
teristics as regards physical, mental, and moral development; it is
solely as a musician that his precocity is manifest. His accomplish
ments are described by M. Richet under the three heads of execution,
invention, and memory.
His fingering is childish and eccentric, but very ingenious, and he
substitutes for the octave, which his hands are too small to strike, a
rapidly-executed arpeggio. His execution is irregular ; occasionally he
loses his way, but suddenly, " as if inspired," plays with precision
and facility difficult passages. But it is the expression which he puts
into his playing which is the most remarkable point in Professor
Richet's view ; in this he far surpasses his mother, whose teaching—
if her half-hearted efforts to control his studies can be so described—is
the only instruction ever received by him. One most curious point
may be noticed—his extreme unwillingness and apparent inability to
play on any piano but his own. This piano, according to Professor
Richet, differs from other pianos only in being exceedingly bad ; and
there seems no discoverable reason, except perhaps some association of
ideas, why be should play well only on his own instrument.
His musical memory is very considerable ; he plays by heart
FEB., 1901.] A Musical Prodigy. 21
correctly some twenty pieces, and it should be remembered that he has
never been made to practise, or taught, in the ordinary sense of the
word. If thirty bars are played through to him two or three times,
he sits down and plays them over, admits no corrections, and never
forgets what he has once played. He can also pick out on the
piano tunes that he has heard sung, and to these he finds the proper
harmonies for himself.
It is not always easy to distinguish in a so-called improvisation on
the piano between memory and invention ; but Pepito, when impro
vising, seems never to be at a loss, and often produces interesting
melodies, which are certainly not recognised by his hearers, and appear
to be original. Here, again, as in his execution, the performance is
irregular; in the midst of a tangle of false notes and hesitating
confusion will come clever combinations of rhythm or transitions from
one theme to another, as though the passages were dictated to him by
a real composer.
Professor Richet offers no explanation of these facts ; he is content
to record them and to await with interest the future development of
Pepito's musical talent. The case presents some analogy with that of
the arithmetical prodigies—the " calculating boys " whose performances
have been often recorded. (See account of the principal ones in Mr.
Myers's paper on "The Subliminal Consciousness: The Mechanism of
Genius" in the Proceedings S.P.R. Vol. viii., pp. 333—361.) Or
a closer parallel may be found in the case of Mr. R. C. Rowe, a
Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. This gentleman, who died
in 1884, was an extraordinarily brilliant musician, whose powers of
execution and interpretation can never be forgotten by those who
heard him play. He showed his musical talent at a very early age,
playing from notes without instruction from the time he was four
years old. Unlike Pepito, his musical precocity seems to have been
shown in his power of reading music. He used to relate how, as
a small child, before he could read books or knew anything of music,
he would spend happy hours poring over musical scores, not attempt
ing to play the music, which would have been beyond his compass,
but getting some real but unanalysable enjoyment out of the printed
score. At a later age he would place a book on the piano and read
aloud from it, while improvising at the same time ; and at school he
often learnt his lessons in this way. His musical gifts, at least in
their early development, do not seem to have been of quite the same
nature as Pepito's ; whereas Mr. Rowe showed what his friends describe
as an " intuitive " power of reading music, it would be difficult to find
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1901.
a parallel to the accuracy of ear, the musical memory, and the power
of execution possessed by this child of four years old.
CASES.
P. 266. Dream.
The following case of an apparently premonitory dream, the details
of which were noted with great care immediately after its apparent
fulfilment, was sent to us by Professor W. Romaine Newbold, of the
University of Pennsylvania. It seems to be conclusively proved that
the dream really occurred and preceded the event,—that it cannot
be attributed to a subsequent illusion of memory. It is more difficult
to judge whether the correspondences between the dream and the
event should be attributed to an actual supernormal prevision of
the latter, or to chance coincidence. It is not perhaps very uncommon
to dream of being pursued by an animal; but in this case the im
pression produced on the boy's family seems to show that the dream
was at least more vivid than his usual ones, and the amount of detail
in the correspondences of course lessens the probability that they were
merely accidental.
The account was given in a letter addressed to Mr. Myers as follows :—
Sedgwick, Maine, August 29th, 1900.
This morning my wife and I reached this out-of-the-way nook, some forty
miles by water, though I believe but twenty by land, from Bar Harbor, and
a few hours after our arrival I got the details of a coincidence which I wish
to record and send you at once.
My wife's parents, Rev. and Mrs. Geo. T. Packard, and, her brother
Kent, aged 13J, have been spending the summer here. Kent met us on the
wharf, and on the way up told me something about being "chased by a
white horse," but I paid little attention to him. After dinner, while his.
mother and sister and I were talking over the happenings of the summer,
Kent came into the room and said to his mother something—I did not catch
the exact words—as to the dream he liad some time ago about being chased
by a white horse. Great excitement ensued, all began to talk at once. I
scented something of value for the S.P.R., and succeeded in quieting the
confusion. Then I made them tell their stories in due order and took them
down in writing. From the notes which I then made I have written out the
following account. It has been verified by the witnesses.
(1) Mrs. Packard's recollections. (Kent heard her tell this, but was not
allowed to comment on it). At home in Boston, not long before they came
down here, Kent one night had a severe nightmare. He began to scream,
thrash about in the bed and strike wildly in all directions. Mrs. P. tried to
FEB., 1901.] Gases. 23
soothe him and finally got him awake. He said he had dreamed that a white
horse was chasing him around a wharf. He was so excited that he slept but
little more that night, waking and crying out at intervals. Mr. Packard
was wakened by the noise of the first attack, and Mrs. P. remembers going
in and explaining to him the cause. She remembers no further details of
the dream.
(2) Ethel Packard Newbold remembers that she was told about the dream
next morning, and that Kent at breakfast kept saying, "Oh that white
horse " ; with expressive gestures of horror. (N.B.—This would fix the
date as falling between May 28th, when E. P. N. went to Boston, and June
16th, when I went there. I heard nothing of this. The family left Boston
June 25th.)
(3) Kent is at first sure he had the dream after he came to Sedgwick, and
that "Ethel only imagines she remembers it." After some reflection he
concludes that it was in Boston he had it. He dreamed that he was on a
wharf, walking along. Some people, among them his mother, had just got
out of a row-boat, upon the wharf. He had just passed them,—heard cries
and " yells " of " Look out," heard footsteps, but they were not heavy—very
light indeed for a horse. Glanced over his shoulder and saw a white horse,
mouth open, long jaw, about to bite him,—then he sprang into the water
and—woke to find his mother shaking him.
(4) What happened. Kent's account. He had just come out of the
baggage room on the wharf at Sedgwick and was walking along the end of
the wharf. A row-boat came up and the people got out, as happened in the
dream, but his mother was not among them. He passed them, heard the
cries, the footsteps, looked back and saw the white horse, the open mouth,
the long jaw and face, the ears pressed back ; he jumped, not into the water,
but into a gangway about ten feet wide, which ran from the level of the pier
to high water-mark. About two hours afterwards he recalled the dream
and was much startled when he recognized the coincidence.
(5) Mr. Packard remembers being awakened by the nightmare, and is sure
it was in Boston, but did not at first remember anything about the content
of the dream. Upon reflection he has a dim memory of the horse incident.
Kent laid stress upon the points that both in the dream and in fact the
people who got out of the row-boat were among those that called to him,
that the footsteps were light, not heavy, as one would suppose those of a horse
would be, and that the horse's jaw and head seemed so long. These items
are of course of no evidential value, but the main facts.—of being chased on
a wharf by a white horse,—are, I think, pretty well established.
I have read this over to the witnesses, and it has been approved by them
all with the changes indicated [in the original MS. and here incorporated].
Kent says he cannot be sure the wharf of his dream was the same wharf he
was on this morning. It was " just a wharf, and all wharves are pretty
much alike." And he did not notice in the dream that the white horse was
attached to a buggy. It might have been, but he did not observe whether
it was or not.
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1901.
November 13th, 1900. On the afternoon of the same day on which the
above was written I saw a young man named Dority, who had been on the
wharf that morning. After chatting with him awhile, I asked him whether
he had seen Kent's narrow escape that morning. He looked somewhat blank
and said, "What narrow escape?" "I heard," I said, "that he was chased
by a white horse." "Oh yes," said he, "yes, I saw that. That's a very
vicious horse of Collier's ; they shouldn't allow him on the wharf." I found
he had seen the horse chase Kent and saw Kent jump into the depressed
gangway. A week later I saw young Dority's father, who drives the stage
from Sedgwick to Blue Hill. He gave the same account. I said nothing
to either of the Doritys about the dream.
I regard it as conclusively proved (1) that Kent really was chased by a
white horse on the wharf at Sedgwick, Maine, on August 29th, and (2) that
he dreamed prior to June 25th of being chased by a white horse on a wharf.
This coiucidence is either due to chance or to supernormal faculty. Kent's
experience of wharves is limited. In his fourth, fifth, and sixth years he
spent the summer at Castiue, Me., where there is a wharf like that at
Sedgwick. In the summer of 1899 he spent two weeks at Harpswell, Me.
I do not know whether there is a similar wharf there or not. His other
summers have been spent inland. The other identifying circumstance which
he remembers—the people disembarking from a row-boat, the light foot
steps, the long jaw and head, the jump—are attested by his evidence only.
His apparent ability to discriminate the two memories, and his recognition
of discrepancies between them, inclines me to place more confidence in
his recollection than I usually would give such evidence, and to regard the
coincidences between the dream and the fact as too numerous to be explained
by chance.
A word or two about Kent himself may not be out of place. He is tall
and strong for his age, and very fond of all boyish sports. But he has
always been a precocious child. His mind is as active as his body. He
has a vivid fancy, dreams much and often has nightmares, though never
before one as bad as this. He is singularly truthful. I have never known
him to lie, even in self-defence. I have known him to invent preposterous
yarns in order to mystify his auditors, but in such cases he always, after
enjoying their astonishment for a minute or two, makes a clean breast of it.
In this case the evidence of others, as well as his own obvious excitement,
makes it impossible to suppose that the whole thing was got up for purposes
of mystification.
W. ROMAINE NEWBOLD, Univ. of Pa.
P. 267. Dream.
In the following case, again, as in that just given, it is impossible
to say that the amount of correspondence between the dream and the
events that appeared to fulfil it is clearly beyond what chance could
FEB., 19(11.] Ccises. 25
have produced. Still, the correspondence is striking and well attested.
The element of prevision is slight ;—relating only, in fact, to a single
stroke in the game ; the rest of the dream may be regarded as- a
clairvoyant impression of an already existing state of things, namely,
some of the features of the ground and the appearance of one of the
players.
The account was sent to Mr. Myers by Mr. Andrew Lang in a letter
dated October 13th, 1900. The dreamer, Mr. Guy Ellis, dictated the
account to Mr. Lang, and afterwards signed it. Mr. Lang informs us
that other members of Mr. Ellis's family remember the incident. The
account, as dictated, is as follows :—
October 8th, 1900.
In March, 1894, I went to play in a foursome tournament at Silloth,
where I had never been before. My partner was Mr. F. T. Ridley, of the
Alnmouth Golf Club. We arrived at the hotel in the dark, and did not see
the links. We shared a double-bedded room. I had a dream more distinct
and vivid than any other in my life. I woke Mr. Ridley and told him what
I had dreamed. We had survived into the final round of the tournament,
and one of our opponents on the tee was a remarkable-looking man,
previously unknown to me. A big black beard was especially notable.
In the course of the match, soon after the turn (at the 9th hole) I dreamed
that it was my honour, and I made a bad tee shot and sliced into a
horseshoe-shaped sand bunker, situated 011 the side of a rise in the
ground. My partner, as I gathered from his expression, thought it did not
matter much, as we were leading by a lot of holes, and would hardly lose.
That day we practised over the course, but did not see the horseshoe-
shaped bunker. The competition went on, taking two or three days, and
we survived into the final. One of our opponents on the tee was the
very big man with the large black beard, whom I readily recognised from
my dream, as did my partner to whom I had told it. He said to me, " By
Jove, that's the man with the beard, in your dream." We played our
match, our opponents were very weak, and we were 6 or 7 up at the turn.
About the eleventh or twelfth hole, I made a very bad tee shot, which went
off the course into a horseshoe-shaped sand-bunker. My partner was going
to play the shot, when he said, " Your dream is true, for here is the bunker,
and it does not matter whether we win or lose the hole."
(Signed) H. G. B. ELLIS.
Mr. Ellis says that the bearded man was a Dane, who lived at or near
Carlisle, and did not stay at the Silloth Hotel where he was. A. L.
Mr. Lang afterwards obtained for us the following letter of cor-
roboration from Mr. Ellis's partner in the game, Mr. F. Ridley. The
letter was addressed to Mr. Ellis.
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1901.
40, Salter's Road, Gosforth, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
October IQth, 1900.
... As regards the' golfing dream : We were at Ryton one Friday
when you saw the advertisement about the competition at Silloth, also that
Friday was the last day for entries. You wired our entry, and we went
to Alnmouth that evening, collected our things and came back to N/C.
next morning, lunched at a restaurant in Grainger Street, then set off
for Silloth, which we reached in the evening when it was quite dark.
We drove straight to a hotel, procured a double-bedded room, had a
whisky and soda, and went straight to bed. In the morning (Sunday)
the first thing I remembered was hearing you shouting, " Are you awake ? "
and then saying you had had a dream about the forthcoming competition.
I asked what it was, and you said that we were in the final. I said, " That
was all right. Were we winning ? " You said you did not know ; you
thought we must be, as we did not seem to care, although we got into a
round pot bunker to the left of a high hill and hacked and hacked away, but
never got out of it. You said one of our opponents was a big man, with a
big head and a black beard, something like W. G. Grace, the cricketer. (I
remember we went out and had a smack or two with clubs, much to the
annoyance of the people). During the preliminary heats of the contest we
never came across this pot bunker. It was, as you know, in the final, after,
to my surprise, the man of your dream, black-bearded, big, and unusually like
W. G. Grace, had announced himself as our opponent, that 7 put you into it.
(You have it the other way.) I remember it was on the homeward journey
that I drove to this hole 011 the top of a hill. I got a slice on the ball, and
got into this up till then invisible bunker. We could not get out, so lost the
hole, but were then so many up that we won easily. I have only been to-
Silloth on that occasion. I was sceptical about you, I remember. I thought
you had been there before and knew the big, black man (Brandstaetter was
his name, by the by), but of course I found you had not.—Ever yours,
FRED. RIDLEY.
P. 268. Dream.
The two cases we next give are uncorroborated, but interesting as
coming from Mr. J. G. Keulemans, of 12, York Terrace, Southend, a
well-known scientific draughtsman and Honorary Associate of the
Society, whose name will be familiar to many of our readers. Some
experiences of his were recorded in Phantasms of the Living (see vol. i.
pp. 196, 235, 255, and 444). Two of these, like those given below, relate
to very trivial incidents—one being an impression that a Dutchman
who was coming to see him that evening would ask him the meaning
of the English phrase, " to wit"; which duly occurred the same evening.
The other was a mind's-eye vision of a little wicker basket, containing
five eggs with certain characteristics, which he specially noticed ; two
FEB., 1901.] Cases. 27
hours later he found that his mother-in-law had sent a similar basket,
containing five eggs like those of his vision, to the house that morning.
(See also an interesting account of various experiences of his recorded
in Mr. Myers's paper on " The Subliminal Consciousness : Sensory
Automatism and Induced Hallucinations," in Proceedings S.P.R. vol. viii.
pp. 516—521). Several of these cases, like the golfing dream given above,
suggest a sort of sporadic clairvoyance of casual details in the percipient's
surroundings. The account following is dated October 18th, 1898 :—
No. 62, Rue Chapral is a private boarding-house, but the tenants and land
lord are friends of mine. I always stay with them, but had not been at that
address before, my friends having recently moved there. I arrived late—
took a cab, and found the house just about 12 at night. I had, whilst
travelling, lost a shirt button, and my collar came undone, and, the weather
being warm, this much interfered with my comfort. Hence I had been
thinking to pick up a pin somewhere.
I went to sleep (without having found one), when just as I was dozing
into sweet slumber, there stood within reach of my right hand on a table a
black lacquer-work tray with big pins, about 30, scattered about, and iu
the lower right corner was a very big needle, about three inches long, and
shining like new.
I never shall forget what a pleasant find that was, with that collar still
bothering me (of course I was already dreaming at that moment). I put out
my hand—to knock it against the wall—which woke me up. There surely was
no tray there, and I had quite as surely been dreaming, owing, as I thought,
[to] the want of a pin previously experienced.
Next morning we had breakfast in the garden. In the corner, under a
creeper, stood a table with some lady's work on it and a tray with the pins
and the one big needle, just as I had seen it, exactly so in every respect. I had
not asked for a pin, but one of the inmates who had waited for me noticed
my bother with that collar. . . . And this young man may have known
that the tray with the pins and needle was there.
Case 2.—About a year ago I heard in my dream the postman's knock, and
a post-card came before my vision, written in German (I found the hand
writing was new to me) about business matters. I noticed several names of
birds, two of which had been erased, and the Latin instead of the German
name substituted. This was near the finish, about an inch below the lower
margin. One of the names was of a bird, " Zosterops." Then I awoke.
It must have been about six in the morning, just getting daylight.
By 8.5 a.m. the card was delivered. The word Zosterops was on it, so
were the two erased names, exactly situated as I had dreamt. The writer was
not known to me personally, but I knew him by reputation. I had never been
prepared by any person either iu England, France, or Germany to expect any
communication from that gentleman (Dr. Blatius), and although I knew the
name well, I did not know that the writer was an editor of a book on birds.
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1901.
When I read the post-card it did, of course, strike me as very remarkable
to see my dream realised in some of the minor details. However, I had no
recollection of having, in my dream become acquainted with the writing of
the matter it contained, but of the name Zosterops I was certain, also of the
two erased words.
J. G. KEULEMAXS.
P. 269. Dream.
The following account comes from Miss Agnes E. Walker, of 13,
Stafford Mansions, Albert Bridge Road, London, S.W. Both Miss
Walker and the brother (Mr. Bernard Walker), who was the subject
of her dream, are known to Mr. J. G. Piddington, to whom the letters
relating to the dream were addressed. It must be observed once more
that the exact verification of the dream might perhaps be regarded as a
merely accidental coincidence, since the chances against it were not very
great. On the other hand, the evidence for the coincidence—whether
accidental or not—-is strong, since six members of Miss Walker's
family corroborate her statement that she had told them the date in
the dream before the latter was fulfilled.
Though dreams of this kind—supposing them to be really super
normal—may conveniently be classed as premonitions, there is no
difficulty in attributing them to clairvoyance or telepathy, since the
facts on which the future event depended were in all probability—
as Mr. Piddington's enquiries show—known at the time to persons
who may telepathically have influenced Miss Walker's dream.
Miss Walker writes :—
13, Stafford Mansions, Albert Bridge Road, London, S.W.,
April 26th, 1900.
DEAR MR. PIDDINGTON,—You asked me to send you a written statement
about a dream, and I do so with much pleasure.
In June, 1897, my youngest brother, B., having passed the examination
for a clerkship in Somerset House, but being unable to obtain the actual
appointment until a vacancy occurred, threw up work he was then doing in
London and went home to Devonshire, intending to take a month or two of
holiday before entering Somerset House.
He was not able to get any information as to when a vacancy would
occur, as there are no age retirements, and could only learn that the
vacancies averaged three a year.
I remained in London. My brother waited at home a whole year and no
vacancies occurred.
One night in June, 1898—I cannot give the exact date, but I think it was
about the 20th or 23rd—I dreamt that my brother received his appointment
on the 19th of July. There was nothing else in the dream—merely the one
FEB., 1901.] Cases. 2ft
perfectly vivid fact of the date. I thought very little of it, but in writing
to my brother in a day or two, I mentioned that I had had this dream, and
that I hoped it was a good omen.
Naturally no one attached any importance to it, and the letter was in due
course destroyed ; though my brother did not forget it, and kept the date in
his head.
On the 19th of July he received an official notice from Somerset House
that he was appointed to a clerkship there, and telegraphed to me to that
effect.
We have much regretted since that the letter was destroyed, but the fact
of the dream and the date was known to all my family before its fulfilment ;
and I send you the signature of the brother concerned, and of other members
of the family who can testify to the accuracy of this statement.—Yours
faithfully, AGNES E. WALKER.
The signatures of other members of Miss Walker's family follow her
own, as below :—
BERNARD S. WALKER.
CHARLES H. WALKER..
J. B. WALKER.
ETHEL A. WALKER.
E. I. WALKER.
N. WALKER.
In reply to enquiries, Miss Walker writes again to Mr. Piddington :—
June 25th [1900].
. . . My brother's name was first in the list for a whole year, for the next
appointment, which could only be given in case of a death or retirement. In
his case a vacancy occurred by the retirement of some one in one of the pro
vincial branches, which was filled up—as I believe they always are—from
Somerset House, and caused a general move up. It seems most probable
that a few weeks before my brother received his appointment these coming
changes must have been known to the Registrar, and he would, I should
think, be most likely to note the next name on the list.
I find that the official letter, informing my brother of his appointment,,
is dated July 18th, and is signed by Mr. David Owen, the head
registrar. . . .
AGNES E. WALKER.
Mr. Piddington writes :—
November Uth, 1900.
In an interview which I had with the Head Registrar at Somerset House-
this morning, he informed me that the fact of a vacancy having occurred
would certainly be known either to himself or to some other of the officials
some weeks before the next appointment would be made, and the first name
on the list of successful candidates would be noted. Consequently, if the
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1901.
case be not regarded as one of pure coincidence, we can suppose that Miss
A. E. Walker in her dream state acquired her information telepathically
from one of the Somerset House officials ; for, although the Head Registrar
did not say that the precise date of a new appointment would be settled as
soon as a vacancy was known to have occurred, still it is permissible to
assume that the approximate date would or could then be known to the
official or officials interested.
As to the evidence of the actual date of Mr. Walker's appointment,
Mr. Piddington writes later :—
November 20th, 1900.
Miss A. E. Walker has sent me the official letter signed by the Senior
Registrar, D. N. (or D. W.) Owen. It is dated July 18th, 1898, and is
addressed to B. S. Walker, Esq. The envelope, an official one, bearing the
stamp of the " High Court of Justice, Probate Registry," bears also the
following post-mark : " London. 6.30 p.m. Official paid. 16. 18 Jy. 98."
•(16 is presumably a post-office mark which signifies the mail by which the
letter was dispatched). The letter is addressed to Bernard S. Walker, Esq.,
Walkhampton, Horrabridge, S. Devon. But the Horrabridge post-mark is
not on the envelope. Doubtless, though, a letter dispatched from London
at 6.30 p.m. on July 18th would reach Horrabridge on July 19th.
P. 270. Dream.
The following case of the finding of a lost object through a dream—
though it too may for convenience be classed as a premonition—does
not of course afford evidence of any supernormal faculty at all, since
it most likely depended on unconscious memory. It is probable
that the percipient took note subliminally—through hearing or some
other sense—of the fall of the cross at the time, and that this sub
liminal perception was recollected by her in the dream. The case
may be compared with several others of the same kind given in Mr.
Myers' paper on " The Subliminal Consciousness : Hypermnesic Dreams,"
in Proceedings S.P.R., vol. viii. pp. 362-404 ; see also a case given by
Mr. Myers in a paper in vol. xi. p. 397.
The percipient in the present case is a friend of Mr. Andrew Lang's,
to whose kindness we owe the account. She writes :—
Holydean, St. Boswells, N.B., October 16th, 1900.
In April, 1892, I had given to me an old cross of very good old paste and
/good design, which I shortly afterwards wore, for the first time, at the
theatre. On reaching home in the evening I found that I had dropped it or
had it stolen, and went to bed mourning its loss.
On falling asleep I dreamed what actually had happened—that I had lost
it on my way from the theatre —but then fancied that I found myself, in
FEB., 1901.] Cases. 31
broad daylight, in the drawing room of the house in Place, W., where
I was then staying, and which overlooked the front door. In my dream I
looked out of the window and saw, lying in the gutter immediately in front
of the door, my cross, and rushed downstairs and into the street and picked
it up.
In the morning I had quite forgotten my dream, but in the afternoon
when I was having tea in the drawing room with my [hostess], she spoke of
the cross I had lost and the unlikelihood of my ever seeing it again. I then
remembered the dream, and told her about it.
" I went forward to the window," I said, " and looked out, and there it was,
lying in the gutter, close to the kerb."
She laughed, and we both went to the window and looked out, and just
then the sun caught on something lying in the gutter, just at the kerb.
It was the old paste cross. t
JEANIE LANG BLAIKIE.
The lady with whom Miss Blaikie was staying at the time adds the
following corroborative note, but desires that her name should not be
published :—
As far as I remember, this is quite correct.
(Signed in full.)
L. 1123. Vision.
The next case relates to an apparently telepathic vision. It was sent
to us by Mr. David Fraser Harris, Lecturer on Physiology at St.
Andrew's University. The percipient, he informs us, is a gentleman
of Austrian extraction in business in London, who gives his name, but
does not wish it to be published. The account was sent to us in a
letter dated September 23rd, 1900, and is as follows :—
A few years ago pressing business prevented my returning home to London
at the end of the week, and as I did not care to spend Sunday at Manchester,
I went on the Saturday afternoon to Matlock Bath with the intention of
spending a quiet Sunday there and returning by an early train on Monday
morning. On arrival at my destination—a small private hotel not very far
from Matlock Bath station—I immediately ordered tea and went to the
sitting-room to warm myself, as it was a raw, cold day in January with a lot
of snow about and the temperature many degrees below freezing point.
I happened to be the only visitor at the hotel, and I made myself com
fortable in a large easy-chair before a cheerful fire, waiting for my tea. It
was hardly dark enough to light the gas and not light enough to see to read.
My back was turned to the window, and I was not thinking of anything in
particular ; I was in a kind of passive, tranquil mood, when suddenly I
seemed to become oblivious to my surroundings, and in place of the dark
wall and the pictures facing me, I saw the front of my house in London, with
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1901.
my wife standing at the door speaking to a working man who held a large
broom in his hands. My wife had a very concerned look, and I felt sure that
the man was in great distress. I could not and did not of course hear what
was spoken, but a strong intuition told me that the man was asking my
wife's assistance. At that 'moment the servant entered the room with my
tea and the scene I had just seen vanished and I again realized where I was.
I was, however, so strongly impressed, and so convinced of the reality of what
I had seen, that after tea I wrote a letter to my wife, telling her of the
strange occurrence, and asking her to make inquiries about the man and to
assist him as much as possible.
What had actually occurred was this : A boy knocked at the door of my
house (which is roughly 140 or 145 miles away from where I was) and asked
the servant whether he might sweep the snow away from the pavement and
doorway for a penny. Whilst the boy was speaking a poorly clad and ill-
looking man came and said, " Please let me sweep away the snow ; this boy-
very likely will only spend the penny in sweets, whilst I want it for bread.
I have a wife and four children all ill at home, we have no food and not even
a fire and nothing more to pawn, and owe rent." The servant asked the man
to wait whilst she went and told my wife, who came to the door and spoke
to the man. He repeated his statement to her, and added that he was a
painter out of work and had been ill and that he and his family were in great
distress, but that he did not want to go to the workhouse for relief, if he
could only get work of some kind.
It was this scene that I witnessed at the very moment it happened and
which was probably communicated to me through the impression the man's
distress made upon my wife's mind.
The rest of the story is simply this : My wife told the man she would call
at his home in the course of the afternoon and see what [could] be done, which
she did and found that the man had told the truth. She helped the poor
family with money, clothing, food and fuel as far as possible, and needless to
Kay was very much astonished when she received my letter on Monday
morning which told her what I had seen. A few days afterwards I saw
the man and instantly identified him as the man I had seen in my strange
vision. He subsequently obtained a situation as milkman, and for about a
couple of years regularly called in our neighbourhood with a milk barrow.
Mr. Harris obtained for us the following letter of corroboration
from the percipient's wife ; who had unfortunately not kept the
letter in which he had described his experience to her at the time.
October 4th, 1900.
DEAR SIR,—As requested by your letter of the 26th to Mr. respecting
the story of his vision he sent you, I beg to testify to the truth and correct
ness in every particular of the account as sent to you. The milkman in
question left the neighbourhood some years ago, and I have not preserved
the letter which Mr. sent me at the time.
No. CLXXVII.—VOL. X. MARCH, 1901.
JOURNAL
•* 9
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Account of a Telepathic Dream. By Professor A. Alexander. ------- 33
Cases. 38
Methods of Subliminal Mentation. 47
ACCOUNT OF A TELEPATHIC DREAM.
BY PROFESSOR A. ALEXANDER,
of Rio de Janeiro,
Cm-responding Member of the S.P.E.
[THE following account has recently been received from Professor
Alexander, enclosed in a letter dated January 27th, 1901. The
evidence of the witnesses is contained in a number of letters written
in Portuguese, the originals of which have been sent to us, while
Professor Alexander's translations of them are included in his narrative.
EDITOR.]
L. 1124.
Dr. Cincinnato Henriques da Silva, who has been good enough to
furnish me with the evidence for the following telepathic dream case,
resides with his family at 110, Rua General Severiano, Botafogo, Rio de
Janeiro. He was formerly a doctor in the Brazilian army. Having
retired from this post while still young, he spends much of his leisure
in the study of so-called occult subjects, in which, however, he is
rather a reader than an experimenter. I know him to be candid and
scrupulous, so much so that his statements may be considered to have a
high evidential value. The account he gives of his experience is
sufficiently clear to dispense with any further preliminary remarks.
Rio de Janeiro, December 30th, 1900.
On the 4th of October, 1898, between 5 and 6 o'clock in the morning, I
saw in a dream the form of Sr. Ignacio E. Monteiro, the manager of the
Postal Department in the State of Parahyba. [He was related to me by
marriage], being the husband of one of my aunts.
The dream scene in which we figured was that of a railway or tramcar
station. I saw distinctly the inner face of the rails, polished to brightness
by the friction of the wheels.
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1901.
The form of this relative of mine appeared with all the vividness of
reality on one side of the station, while I stood on the other side, the road
where the rails were running between us.
He tendered to me with much insistence a set of papers, which he held in
his left hand. There was some eight or ten sheets, the edges of which were
separated. Although longer than letter paper, they were not so broad as
ordinary foolscap. On the top of these were two smaller sheets, which were
much rumpled.
I crossed the line quickly (some train or electric car was about to start),
and on stretching out my hand to receive the papers, the vision ceased and I
immediately woke up.
The day was just breaking.
So vivid was my dream that it produced on me a profound impression. I
rose and at once narrated my experience to my wife, who occupied a room
adjoining mine.
On the very same day I told my dream to Second Lieutenant Cyriaco
Lopes, asking him to take note of the details related (e.g. the delivery of the
papers) so that we might form a just estimate of their value in case the death
of my relative should take place.
On the following day Second Lieutenant Cyriaco, on passing by my house,
showed my wife a telegram of the daily paper, 0 Paiz, announcing the
decease of Sr. Ignacio E. Monteiro.
I wrote to the son of the latter gentleman, relating what had occurred and
requesting him at the same time to give me, if it were possible, some satis
factory explanation respecting the papers tendered to me by his father.
I annex to this [deposition] the letter containing my request and the reply
of Second Lieutenant Alvaro E. Monteiro, who having returned to Rio de
Janeiro some months afterwards, informed me that his father died at mid
day on the 4th of October, but that between 4 and 6 o'clock in the morning
of the same day the sick man passed through a crisis so grave that all
the persons in the house were alarmed and convinced that he was dying then
and there.
I also subjoin the letter received from Second Lieutenant Cyriaco Lopes,
whom I requested to reply to questions drawn up by me. . . .
(Signed) DR. CINCINNATO HENRIQUES DA SILVA.
Donna Etelvina, the wife of Dr. Cincinnato, corroborates her husband's
statements. At first she was inclined to attach but small importance to
the dream, and by the afternoon of the following day she had so far
forgotten about it that, when Second Lieutenant Cyriaco Lopes informed
her of its confirmation by telegram, she was momentarily at a loss to
understand what had been confirmed. The facts were afterwards well
impressed on her memory by the strangeness of the coincidence. Her
deposition here follows :—
MAR., 1901.] Account of a Telepathic Dream. 35
January 23rrf, 1901.
With respect to the dream in which my husband saw the form of Sr.
Ignacio E. Monteiro, I have to declare that the said dream was related to me
on the very day [of its occurrence], in the early morning, one day before the
daily paper, 0 Paiz, published the telegram announcing the decease of that
gentleman. I also recall, as if it were yesterday, that my husband related it
on the same day to Lieutenant Cyriaco Lopes, who on the day following
passed by our house and said to me, "The dream of Dr. Cincinnato has been
realized : Sr. Ignacio E. Monteiro is dead." He [then] showed me the
telegram of 0 Paiz. I can guarantee that this is a true statement of the
facts. (Signed) ETELVINA B. DA SILVA.
At the time when the first steps were taken to collect evidence for
this case Second Lieutenant Cyriaco was at Bage' in the State of Rio
Grande. Dr. Cincinnato sent him a letter containing questions, the
answer to which arrived from the south about the same time that the
writer of it returned to Rio on his way to Para.
It will be seen that the lieutenant's replies are very laconic, but they
serve their purpose. The questions are transcribed in his letter, which
is dated from Bage, December 28th, 1900.
(1st) Did I really tell you the dream in which the father of Second
Lieutenant Alvaro Evaristo Monteiro appeared to me ?
You did.
(2nd) Did you hear that I, or any one else, had any knowledge of the
decease of Lieutenant Alvaro's father at the time when I related the said
<lream to you ?
You did not. There was no thought about the matter.
(3rd) Was this, or was this not, on the same day of the dream related to you 1
It was.
(4th) On what day did you show me a telegram inserted in 0 Paiz
announcing the decease of Captain Ignacio Evaristo Monteiro, the father of
Lieutenant Alvaro 1
I cannot determine the day, but I may state that I remember quite well
that it was subsequent to the day on which you told me of the dream.
On Sunday, the 20th of January, 1901, I met both Cyriaco Lopes
and Alvaro Monteiro at the house of Dr. Cincinnato. The former can
say nothing more than that the dream was told him on one day and
that on some subsequent occasion he saw the telegram, and passing by
Dr. Cincinnato's house in the afternoon, spoke to Donna Etelvina at the
window. He then told her that her husband's dream had been
confirmed.
The letter sent by Dr. Cincinnato to Alvaro Monteiro is valuable
inasmuch as it contains the first account of his dream written shortly
after it had occurred. It is dated from Rio on the 18th of October,
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1901.
1898. After a few words of condolence with his cousin Dr. Cincinnato
As our long companionship and interchange of ideas have made you
acquainted with my opinions respecting our spiritual life, which, for my part, I
hold to be more proved than anything else, [I must ask you tojgive me a hearing.
On the 2nd or 3rd inst.1—in any case on the day immediately preceding
that on which 0 Paiz gave a telegraphic announcement of the death of your
father—at 5 o'clock in the morning—I mean to say, between 5 and 6 o'clock
in the morning—I dreamed I saw your father standing in a railway or
tramcar station, holding some sheets of paper in his left hand and [seeming]
very anxious that I should receive them. He wore a greyish coat, and the
papers (some eight or ten sheets) were open, and not folded or rolled up.
They were smaller than foolscap ; [the edges of] the sheets did not coincide
with each other, but were spread out in different directions. [I have
already said that] the number of sheets seen by me was about eight or ten.
On these written papers were two small sheets also open and containing
writing. The latter were somewhat rumpled and their size was that of small
note paper. There was a station with a double line. I was on the side on
which the engines went out of the station, and he was on the side of the
arrival of the trains or tramcars. On my side the rails shone with the
friction of the wheels. All this I saw as distinctly as if the scene I describe
to you had been real. He insisted on my crossing the line and receiving the
papers. I did so and immediately the vision passed away and I awoke.
It was just growing light, but as it has been raining almost always,
and the mornings, as usual here at this time of year, have been consequently
dark, I suppose that my dream took place between 5 and 6 o'clock a.m.
I assure you that on awaking I received such an impression of reality from
the scene I had witnessed that I was at once convinced that your father had
either died within the twelve hours preceding the dream, or that he was dying.
As soon as I rose I narrated the above experience to Chinota,2 to whom I
declared that I was sure of what had happened to your father.
On the evening of the same day Cyriaco Lopes was with me at my house.
I gave him a detailed account of the dream, and asked him to let me know of
any news he might receive in reference to the health of your father. Next
day, in the afternoon, he told Chinota that he had seen that day's telegram,
that is, the telegram giving the news of your father's death, and published
on the day following that of the dream.
If my memory does not fail me, it was the first time I ever dreamed
of him. What I can assure you is that it was the first time I ever dreamed
of any person in such a manner as to conclude that that person had died. It
was you that gave me the last news I had of your father, and I recollect your
telling me that he was fairly well, although his health had not been of the
very best.
1 Dr. Cincinnato affirms that this date is wrong. —A. A.
2 A familiar name applied to Donna Etclvina.—A.A.
MAR., 1901.] Account of a Telepathic Dream. 37
Had the papers any relation with wishes perhaps expressed by him ?
As a matter of fact, I am quite convinced that the dream was significant.
(Signed) CINCINNATO.
So far the only fact proved is the coincidence of the dream with the
death of the apparent agent. Lieutenant Alvaro's reply furnishes a
plausible explanation of the papers seen by the percipient in the hand
of Sr. Ignacio Monteiro. Writing from Parahyba, on the 18th of
November, 1898, he says :
Let me see whether I can find an explanation for your dream. When
father fell ill, and knew that he was going to die, he became much troubled
about the future of his family, and, as he had but a short time to live, he sent
for Agnello,1 and asked him to go to the Fiscal Office (Delegacia, Fiscal) and
pay the monthly contribution to the pension fund corresponding to October.
This it was not possible to do [in time to tranquillize his mind],2 for when
Agnello returned with the receipt the death had taken place.
As soon as I received your letter I examined father's papers, and I found
ten receipts corresponding to the ten monthly payments made by him after
his dismissal from the place of manager of the Postal Department.
Father was not unaware that there is great delay in the despatch of
pension schedules, especially when there is no one in Rio to hurry on the
process, and his mind naturally reverted to [Senator] Alvaro Machado, or
somebody else likely to take an interest in his affairs. Perhaps he thought
of you as a relative of the family and a resident in Rio. This is the only
explanation of the case that occurs to me. . . . (Signed) ALVARO.
In reply to verbal questioning Lieutenant Alvaro Monteiro informed
me that the cause of his father's death was defective action of the mitral
valve of the heart. The decease occurred at mid-day on the 4th of
October, 1898 ; but between 4 and 6 o'clock on the same morning, that
is to say, just about the time of Dr. Cincinnato's dream,8 he passed
through a severe crisis, believed that his last moment had already
come, and called the members of his family to his bedside. He did
not, however, lose consciousness on this occasion, nor did he, so far as
Lieutenant Alvaro can recollect, mention Dr. Cincinnato by name. The
nature of his disease was discovered only some four days before he died.
He was 65 years old ; other members of his family had died about that
age, and this led him, even before his final illness, to apprehend that he
himself would not long be spared. After the death, Second Lieutenant
Alvaro looked over his father's papers and found the ten receipts of the
1 Dr. Agnello was Sr. Monteiro's son-in-law.—A.A.
2 The words between square brackets are inserted to avoid an apparent contradiction.
Lieutenant Alvaro explained to me that that was what he wanted to say.—A.A.
3 The time at Parahyba is 32 m. 32 s. in advance of that at Rio.—A.A.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1901.
pension fund, these being similar in shape and size to the papers
described as seen in the dream. He found nothing, however, corre
sponding to the two smaller rumpled papers. With regard to the mise
en seine of the vision, it is not unimportant to remark that there is
between Parahyba and the coast a railroad of about 18 kilometers in
length, over which any one would have to pass in going to, or coming
from, Eio de Janeiro. In the dream image Sr. Ignacio Monteiro was
seen dressed in a light greyish coat, and holding the papers in his left
hand : in reality he was right-handed ; but when at home he usually
wore a light silk coat of pale yellow or straw colour.
At the time of his dream Dr. Cincinnato was in a normal state
of health. There was nothing to induce him to turn his thoughts
more especially to his relative in the north. He knew that Sr. Ignacio
Monteiro suffered from bronchitis ; but he was not aware that he had
heart disease. If he formed any supposition at all on the subject, it
was that his relative was fairly hale for his age. He insists that he was
much impressed by the unusual distinctness of the dream image. . . .
As measured on Delamarche's map of Brazil, the linear distance
between Rio and Parahyba do Norte is in round numbers 1700
kilometres.
At the Public Library of Rio I found the following telegram in
0 Paiz of Wednesday, the 5th of October, 1898.
Parahyba, 4[th of October].
The death occurred to-day of the ex-manager of the Postal Department,
Ignacio Evaristo Monteiro, who had lately been acting as manager of the
Cashier's Department in the State Revenue Office.
This fixes the date both of the decease and the dream.
CASES.
P. 271.
The following letter appeared in Light of December 8th, 1900,
under the heading " A Problem for Telepathists " :—
I wish to give the following test in the interest of all psychical
researchers, more especially of those who, entirely believing in clairvoyance,
yet hold it to be only varied forms of thought-reading or thought-projection.
In February last I called upon Madame Zuleika without making any
appointment, but going on a sudden impulse which I put down to spirit
guidance, having had many experiences of this before. She told me that
my husband was going at once to South Africa, and that I should not see
him before he went unless I made a special effort ; that he could not come
and see me, as expected, but that I should have to go to him. She warned
MAB., 1901.] Cases. 39
me that I must be careful to get all papers relating to business and also his
will, before he left, as she saw that he would not live out the year. I
demurred to this, giving her my reasons, but she said she was sure of the
fact, as his "span was run." When she said this I felt intuitively that
what she predicted would happen at the fall of the year, and pictured
November as the time in my mind.
Everything came to pass exactly as Madame Zuleika foretold. My
husband got sudden orders to proceed to South Africa. I had to rise from
a sick bed to go and meet him, and he, although enjoying excellent health
until November, died after a short illness early in that month. These facts
were told at the time to several relations in confidence, but not to my
husband, and they can all bear witness to the exact veracity of this
statement. I am not a personal friend of Madame Z.'s, and have never seen
her before or since that one time, but I think in justice to her this ought to
be published,—as well as in the interests of psychical research.
VERITAS.
An Associate of the Society for Psychical Research was kind enough
to put Mr. J. G. Piddington into communication with "Veritas," who
in answer to a request for further information, wrote :—
I have no objection to giving you my name and address, also the names
and addresses of the relations to whom I told what Madame Zuleika had
predicted almost directly after my stance with her
On [a certain day in] February, 1900, directly after breakfast, when I was
no more thinking of going into London than taking a journey to the moon
(I lived at X) [X is a suburb some 12 miles out of London], I felt strongly
impressed to go to Madame Zuleika. It was extremely inconvenient for me
to leave the house and I put away the impression, but it became stronger
than ever, and it ended in my starting in a great hurry, hardly giving myself
time to dress.
I had never seen Mme. Z. in my life, and as I lived right away at X and
never frequent Spiritualist meetings or any others (excepting Mrs. Besant's
lectures, which are far too crowded to admit of any ordinary person being
noticed) the assumption that Mme. Z. had ever seen me or known anything
of me is, I think, wildly improbable. I am therefore quite certain I was an
absolute stranger to her.
She said at once, " You came by impression—you are sent to me to hear
something important." She then told me she saw (in a clairvoyant picture,
I afterwards learnt) my husband just starting on a voyage, and told me the
facts narrated in Light. I said to her, " Oh ! no wonder you think everybody
going to South Africa doomed, but I must explain to you my husband is not
a combatant officer, . . . and he is also a very strong man." She replied, " I
am sure of his death—his span is run. I see it, and he will not live out the
year." I then myself saw a little picture of the year, . . . and November
stood out, so I supposed that would be the time intuitively. Just then she
was distracted by seeing a picture of my youngest son, whom she . , .
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1901.
described and told me a great many things about. She then reverted to my
husband's death, and said : " But the reason you have been sent here is to
get all business papers at once from your husband,—his will, his insurance,
all his papers,—or you will have a lot of trouble and expense. This you must do
at once (he was in [a distant part of the country]) as he will be going directly."
I did not know my husband was going for certain, but thought it probable.
I said, " Oh, but I know he would come and see us before he goes and I will
ask him about business, but he won't like it." She said, " No, write, and at
once, he is going so soon and you won't see him ; he won't come to you ;
you can only see him by going to him and you will have to make an effort."
She urged me further strongly to see about the business affairs, and then the
stiance proceeded and many other things of a marvellous interest were told me.
Well, I wrote to my husband that same day ; got no answer till [6 days
later] when he wrote he was to sail for South Africa [in 6 days' time] and
would spend a day or so with us. That same day I fell ill ... and was so bad
that next day I kept my bed, when at 11 o'clock at night a special telegram
arrived saying, " Meet me without fail at Waterloo, train leaves 8 a.m. for
Southampton, sail to-morrow." [This latter date was 2 days earlier than his
letter had stated], and the ship sailed on [that day]. So it all came to
pass as Mme. Z. had told me, and I had to make " the effort," and got up and
went off by a very early train next morning with my son, and in all the
confusion and in so short a time no business could be well discussed. In
fact, he wouldn't listen to anything of the sort, and said there was no necessity.
"He wasn't going to be killed." The result has been disastrous in a
pecuniary way and has caused and is still causing the greatest trouble and
expense. . " . . (Signed) M. R. V.
P.S.—The events are recorded in my diary.
The question whether the fulfilment of a prophecy of this kind is to
be regarded as accidental or not of course depends very much on the
amount of detail on it. But, in estimating this, we must be careful to
distinguish between details that are associated with or contingent on
one another and those that are independent. Thus, it was not unlikely
in the first place that Mme. Zuleika should imagine that the husband
of " Veritas " was going to South Africa ; this would naturally suggest
the idea of his death there, and the desirability of arranging his
business affairs before he went would be an almost inevitable corollary.
So far, the number of details add hardly anything to the improbability
of the prediction being fulfilled by chance ;—if the first part of it came
true, the others were likely to follow. On the other hand, the other
two main details predicted,—(a) that he would be prevented from
coming to visit his family before he went, and (b) that "Veritas"
herself would have to make a special effort to go and see him ;—while
inherently rather more improbable, are also more independent both of
MAR., 1901.] Cases. 41
the first set and of one another, and therefore their fulfilment adds
considerably to the presumption against chance or guessing as an
explanation of the whole.
" Veritas " gave us the names and addresses of six persons to whom
she had spoken of Mme. Zuleika's prediction before its fulfilment. She
has special reasons, which she has explained to us, for desiring all the
names connected with the case to be kept private, and consequently the
signatures to the letters that follow are replaced by assumed initials.
" Veritas " is spoken of as Mrs. V. and her husband as " Captain V.,"
the rank also being assumed.
Mr. Piddington has seen a telegram to Mrs. V. from the War Office,
announcing the death of Captain V. at , on a certain date in the
month of November. The death resulted from a somewhat uncommon
disease.
The following are the letters addressed to Mr. Piddington by the
persons referred to above, namely, Miss H. M., Miss 0. E., Miss R. S.
and her mother, Mrs. C. S., and two of Mrs. V.'s daughters, Miss M.
V. and Miss N. V. Jan_ m [1901]_
DEAR SIR,—In answer to your letter just received, I beg to say that Mrs.
V. gave me an account of her visit to Madame Zuleika on the evening1 of
the day she visited her in February last. She was much impressed at having
'been told that her husband, Captain V., would cross the sea and go to a great
distance, that he would not outlive another year, and that it was impera
tively necessary for her to get from him all papers relating to business, his
will, etc., before his departure. It was also stated that she would not meet
him again, unless she made a great effort to do so.
All subsequently fell out exactly as Madame Zuleika had predicted, Mrs.
V. having to rise from a sick bed to go and see her husband at Waterloo,
on his way through London for South Africa. His death occurred quite
unexpectedly in November last, after an illness of only a few days.
I am happy to be able to entirely corroborate Mrs. V.'s narrative, but
beg that my name and address may not be published. I shall be happy to
answer any further questions, if what I have already stated is not enough.—
I remain, yours truly, H. M.
January IQth, 1901.
DEAR SIR,—I have much pleasure in sending you the few particulars I
remember (relating to Captain V.) that Mrs. V. gave me of her interview
with Mme. Zuleika.
It was in February or possibly the beginning of March of last year I
heard the story ; the exact date I cannot remember. If you do not find the
enclosed account sufficiently satisfactory, I shall be delighted to answer any
further questions you may wish to put.—I am, yours very truly, O. E.
1 Note by Mrs. V. : " It was three evenings after."
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1901.
January Wth, 1901.
One afternoon in February or the beginning of March, 1900, I went to see
Mrs. V. In the course of conversation Mrs. V. told me that some days
since, on waking in the morning, she felt such a strong inclination to visit
Mme. Zuleika that she started off for that purpose as soon as possible.
Among other prophecies, Madame Zuleika foretold that Captain V. would
die in the course of the year, and that unless Mrs. V. made a great effort she
would not see her husband again. Captain V. was, I think, in at the
time, and I understood Mrs. V. to say that very soon after her interview
with Madame Zuleika, she received one day a telegram or letter from her
husband, saying that he would be passing through London early next
morning on his way to South Africa, and begged her to come and meet him
at the station if possible.
At great trouble and inconvenience to herself Mrs. V. went into town
early next morning, and saw her husband for the last time.
In November, as has already been stated, Captain V. died.
(Signed) O. E.
January 1th, 1901.
In February or March last year (1900), Mrs. V. visited us in this
house, and told us of her interview with Madame Zuleika. She said she had
been strongly impressed to go to her.
Madame Zuleika told her that her husband was going immediately on a
long voyage ; that she would have to make a great effort to see him, and to
be sure to get all his papers, as she would never see him again, for he would
die within the year. (Signed) E. S.
January 1th, 1901.
Early in the spring of 1900,—I think in March,—Mrs. V. told me that
she had visited Madame Zuleika, who told her that her husband was going
on a long voyage almost immediately, and that she was to be sure to get all
his papers before he sailed, as she would never see him again. She said that
he would die within a year. Mrs. V. told me how well he was, and
seemed very unwilling to believe in the prophecy ; but ended by telling me
that she wished me to know about it, so that if it came true I might be
able to bear testimony to the fact.
(Signed) C. S.
February 4th, 1901.
DEAR SIR,—I was away from home at the time my mother went to see
Mme. Zuleika, but in discussing plans for the future she wrote aud told me
of the prophecy, and said she felt she ought to remain in England until the
time had passed. This letter I received some time in March last.
(Signed) N. V.
February 3rd [1901].
My mother on coming back from seeing Madame Zuleika was very much
upset, and I being the only one at home then, she told me a good many things
Mme. Zuleika had told her, and principally that she had said my father was
MAR., 1901.] Cases. 43
going at once to South Africa, and would not live out the year. He was
then in . Mother said she felt herself it would really come true, but
did not mean to think about it, and tried not to believe it.
(Signed) M. V.
G. 266. Haunt.
The following account of supposed " hauntings " was sent to Mr.
Myers in 1899 by Mrs. Jephson, who occupied the house in ques
tion and let lodgings there at the time the incidents occurred. Not
having been able to obtain more details, we now print the case as it
stands. Mrs. Jephson's first letter on the subject was as follows :—
Panton Cottage, Union Road, [Cambridge], March 23rd [1899].
DEAR MR. MYERS,—Do you remember coming to see me at Cromwell
Lodge, Trumpington Street, [Cambridge], a few years ago concerning various
noises and visions we heard and saw there ? We left last year and moved to
the above address : since then the house has been bought, and is being
pulled more or less to pieces, and three skulls have been found just outside
our dining-room windows—close underneath the rooms where we saw and
heard the various uoises. One is a woman they tell me, and the other two
are men. They are placed in the Archaeological Museum. Of course there
must have been a murder committed, or no one would be buried on private
property. ... E. J. JEPHSON.
Mrs. Jephson afterwards sent Mr. Myers brief written particulars
(which she had already told him—it appears—orally) of the experiences
referred to above, in a letter dated April 26th, 1899. The first
narrative relates to her own experiences ; the second to those of her
servant in the same house.
(1)1 cannot describe the peculiar feeling that crept over me when one night
about 12 o'clock I felt the touch of a hand, or as I thought that of the paw
of my pet collie, who usually slept on my bed, but on putting out my hand
to caress him I came in contact with an icy being instead of a lovely warm-
coated creature. On looking up in astonishment, I saw at the foot of the
bed a beautiful vision—a most ethereal face—oval in shape, with piercing
violet eyes, and a mouth of speaking sympathy. I said, "What do you
want ?" She replied, " I only come to tell you your son has just arrived
safely at Perth." She vanished, but with the declaration she would come
again. It was perfectly true that my sou did arrive at Perth at the hour
named. Once more did she appear to me at night to tell me of illness which
the post only proved too true.
The curious noises about the house it is [possible] to understand on
ordinary grounds (because rats and mice often cause bells to ring, and that
occurred constantly), but the interesting part of the matter is as follows :
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1901.
i. Footsteps on the stairs at early hours, from 1—4 or so.
ii. Footsteps overhead, when on searching the rooms no one was found.
iii. Knockings in a grate at 2 o'clock in the morning, like the hammering
in of nails. These and other things give the house a strange interest.
(2) On going to bed one night about 10 I was startled by a lovely face
gazing at me just beside the bedroom door ; it seemed that of a young girl,
and she wore a hood with a dark-coloured exterior, which covered her
shoulders. I was so frightened that I screamed out and threw away both
candlesticks and hat, etc., and fell down. Though there were several people
in the house, no one seemed to hear me, on account of their talk and games,
so I do not know how long I lay on the floor, only shall never forget the
shock this apparition gave me. EMMA ELLIS.
Mrs. Jephson afterwards obtained for us the evidence of one of her
lodgers, Mr. Joy, who wrote :—
April 28th, 1899.
I occupied two rooms at Cromwell Lodge, 4, Trumpington Street, Cam
bridge, during terms from October 1889 to June 1892.
I most certainly heard many noises, the causes of which I have never
been able to discover. Often for a week or two bells would peal between 1
and 2 a.m., and until I became tired of doing so, and was convinced that no
one outside pulled the street door bell, I frequently went downstairs and
opened the front door (the bell ringing at intervals the while), or roamed
about the passages. There were other noises of the nature of tapping or
hammering, which I put down to rats or mice.
The most extraordinary occurrence, however, happened in the early
summer of—I think—1895. On that occasion an old college chum and I
were staying at Cromwell Lodge for a night, and were sleeping on the same
floor, but in different rooms. Before 1 was fully undressed I heard in the
next (an unoccupied sitting) room a noise like the rattling of teacups.
When I had occupied the room in which I then was and the adjoining one
regularly, I had kept my crockery in the cupboard under a bookcase. I
therefore concluded that my friend had knocked to attract my attention,
and so shaken the bookcase and crockery in it, for the bookcase had stood
with its back to a wooden partition dividing the room in which it stood from
one nearer the front of the house, in which my friend was (his bed-head
backing on to the other side of the partition).
I shouted to my friend asking what he wanted. He assured me he had
not knocked, and on opening my door, which led into my old sitting-room,
I at once saw that there was no bookcase there. I had pictured the room
as it was when I was in residence ! I went into my friend's room, smoked
a cigarette with him, and then went to bed. Half-an-hour afterwards the
bells began. I have never been able to account for these things, and merely
state the facts. I may also add that my friend slept, or tried to sleep, on the
floor in my room, declining to sleep apart from me, and vehemently declar
ing that he would never sleep in the house again. G. P. J.
MAR., 1901.] Cases. 45
On June 28th, 1899, Mrs. Jephson wrote:—
DEAR MR. MYERS,—You may like to have the enclosed account of
Cromwell Lodge, written by Mr. Hadath, who was often in and out, though
he only slept there that one night. ... E. J. JEPHSON.
The following was the account enclosed :—
This is the first time that I have attempted to put on record my experi
ences at Cromwell Lodge in January, 1896. I will now do so in the plainest
manner possible. The exact date I cannot fix accurately, though possibly I
might with the aid of a calendar ; it was, I think, on the 5th or 6th.
I reached Cambridge towards noon, and in the scepticism of my mental
attitude and the courage bred of daylight I begged Mrs. Jephson to allow me
to occupy the " haunted " room. Before I left, I had arrived at the conclusion
that this term could be applied to every quarter of the house.
Mr. G. P. Joy, who also took part in the events of that night, arrived
shortly afterwards.
In the evening, after dinner, we visited the rooms of an undergraduate
(of Pembroke), situated in the lane which runs by the side of the University
Press, and subsequently joined a party of his friends who were playing
poker. Between eleven and twelve o'clock we returned to Cromwell Lodge.
I wish to lay stress on the manner in which we employed that evening,
because many games of cards produce a reflex action on my mind and
memory, so that when I have ceased playing I find my thoughts recurring
to the incidents of the game, and I retire to rest with my mind abstracted
from all matters except the details of the play.
And it was so on that night. After we had chatted for some thirty
minutes with Mrs. Jephson and I had gone to my room, I put out my light
and prepared to sleep, totally oblivious of my surroundings and of the
character of the chamber I occupied, concerned only with the cards I had
been holding, and with one hand in particular.
It would be unreasonable, therefore, to ascribe the impressions I subse
quently received to the supposition that I had, unconsciously perhaps, pre
pared myself to experience the uncanny, or was in a state of nervous tension
favourable to its reception. My room was on the first floor, Mr. Joy
occupying one adjoining. The position will, perhaps, be made clearer by
the following rough sketch [not reproduced here].
The space occupied by my bedroom and the drawing-room in this sketch
had at one time formed one large room, but it was then divided by a parti
tion which did not reach to the ceiling, draped on my side by dark curtains.
These curtains faced the foot of my bed. On the other side of my bedroom,
and behind the head of my bed, lay two rooms ; one used as a study, and
one that in which Mr. Joy was sleeping. From the head of the stairs to the
doors of my room and the drawing-room ran the passage.
I had not been in bed ten minutes before I fell asleep, dreaming of the
cards ; within another twenty minutes I awoke with a start. There was
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1901,
nothing to disturb me, but I felt that something was wrong. I sat up and
stared into the darkness. Then suddenly, from behind the partition at the
foot of my bed, a sharp crashing noise resounded, continuing for the space of
five seconds or more. It was as if one had dashed on the floor a heavy
load of china or glass, which had broken as it fell. I sat still and listened.
Within a few minutes it occurred again. Then through the wall I heard
Mr. Joy shouting to me, asking what I was doing. I had no appetite for
more, and fled to him without scruple, to find his astonishment on learning
that I was not responsible for the noise no less than my alarm. When I
had thrown on a blanket we proceeded to the passage, and met Mrs. Jephson
coming up the stairs with a light and her dog, a big collie.
At that moment out on the silence broke the bells,—bells of many varieties
of tone and strength ; it seemed as if every one in the house was ringing.
No gentle tinkle, to which a rat crossing the wires might give cause, but a
sharp staccato peal. We rushed downstairs to the front door, opened it, and
looked out. It was a clear night, but not a figure was to be seen ; and the
road runs straight and broad in either direction, affording no hiding for a
considerable distance. Nor could a practical joker have pulled any but the
front door bell.
For some minutes we waited behind the door, and then returned upstairs,
the dog following. We took up our stand outside the study, and so com
manded the passage which led to the drawing-room. A few minutes passed,
and then, again from that quarter, and clearly in the hearing of us all, rose a
new noise. It seemed the loud beating of a tray with a stick or something
similar. The dog, and I remember this distinctly, crouched against the wall,
cowering. It ceased ; the bells, I think, pealed again, and all was still. We
waited awhile, and then, after bidding Mrs. Jephson a second good;night, I
procured a light, aud accompanied by Mr. Joy returned to my room. My
object was to obtain the bedclothes, not to complete the night there ; this
was done on the floor of Mr. Joy's room, but we did not go to sleep for
some two hours later, when at last the bells, which commenced pealing
again, and continued to peal at intervals, shrilly, harshly, loudly, had ceased.
I have heard nothing like it before or since. It was impossible for any
person in the house to have rung them all at the same time and with that
force. The only two other occupants (besides those mentioned) were a young
maid and Mrs. Jephson's old servant ; they were safely in their room,
together, I believe ; and the latter was not given to such humour. . . .
On the next morning the drawing-room whence the sounds proceeded
remained intact, furniture and contents undisturbed. . . .
I have to certify that the above is a plain, unexaggerated record of what
transpired, and that the manner of its telling detracts from rather than adds
to the horror of its nature.
E. G. HADATH.
26, Queen's Road, West Didsbury, Manchester.
Mrs. Verrall adds the following note to Mrs. Jephson's narrative :—
MAR., 1901.] Cases. 47
February 21st, 1901.
I was present on April 5th, 1899, when Mrs. Jephsou reminded Mr.
Myers that she told him of her experiences in Cromwell Lodge some years
before the discovery of the skulls. I heard her relate in detail the
occurrences referred to in the above documents ; she answered all questions
fully, and seemed to me a clear and trustworthy witness.
MARGARET DE G. VERRALL.
METHODS OF SUBLIMINAL MENTATION.
WE have received a communication from a member of the Society,
Miss L. Bigg, of 40, Chester Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.,
on the subject of the art of " Cartomancy," or " laying the cards."
Miss Bigg states that she has known several instances of the fulfilment
of predictions made by a friend of her own through "reading" an
ordinary pack of playing-cards, and that she desires to collect the
experiences of others with non-professional mediums in the same line,
and to meet with some who may be willing to join in experiments with
her either at the rooms of the S.P.R. or at her own house.
In the experiments she has made hitherto—Miss Bigg tells us—
the inquirer, without seeing any of the cards, shuffles the pack and
cuts at random; then the medium proceeds to "lay out" the cards—
usually face upwards—by some set plan (of which there are at least
five or six), and then " reads " them, usually interpreting each card
in the same way ; but combinations of certain cards modify the meaning
of single cards. A good medium, however, will point out the cards
which lead to her conclusions, however rapidly she may " read " them.
The first question, of course, to be settled in any investigation of
this kind is whether the statements made by the medium with regard
to facts normally unknown to her are sufficiently numerous, explicit,
and detailed to be beyond explanation by chance or guesswork ; that
she does not—like the ordinary " fortune-teller "—simply make a
large number of statements, some of which are almost certain to fit
the circumstances of everybody. Of this we cannot judge until we
have the full details of a number of cases before us. But, assuming
for the moment that knowledge is sometimes supernormally acquired by
the means described, it becomes an interesting problem what part the
cards play in it. The most obvious theory is that they take the place of
a planchette, ouija-board, or tilting table, in facilitating the emergence
or externalisation of the subliminal impressions of the medium ; that
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1901.
she has acquired the habit of using them to distract her supraliminal
attention from her other surroundings, and so leave freer scope for the
subliminal, as one may acquire the habit of using almost any object, e.g.
a crystal, towards the same end. On this theory the supposed super
normal knowledge is not in any way acquired through the cards ; they
simply help to bring it to the surface of the medium's mind. In order to
prove that their function goes beyond this, and to support the hypothesis
sometimes put forward of an actual pre-arrangement by some super
normal means of the cards in the hand of the person who shuffles them,
we should have to show : (a) that the particular plan of " laying out "
used by the medium on any one occasion is determined before she has
seen any of the cards, and is not varied from at all after seeing any of
them ; (b) that the same interpretation is always applied to the same
card or combination of cards ; (c) that some statement is made corre
sponding to every card or combination, and not only to selections of
them arbitrarily chosen by the medium at the time. We should also,
of course, require to know all the statements made and with what
cards they were associated in each case.
Now, supposing that there is any supernormal pre-arrangement of
the cards, it would seem that no medium would be required to " read "
them ; if she only does it by a set of rules, any one else could apply
the rules. In this case we should have to suppose that the knowledge
is conveyed to the subliminal self of the person who shuffles the cards,
and we might go on to suppose that he subliminally recognises them
by touch and arranges them in a certain order corresponding to the
knowledge in his subliminal consciousness, while all the time under
the impression that he is shuffling at random. Extravagant and com
plicated as this hypothesis sounds, it is not incompatible with what has
been observed in some few cases of automatic action.
Whatever conclusion be reached, however, as to the modus operandi,
it is certainly desirable that experiments should be made in any direction
in which there seems a chance of finding the operation of supernormal
faculty of any kind ; and we hope that many of our readers may be
inclined to co-operate with Miss Bigg or to try experiments on the same
lines for themselves, in either case making at the time complete written
records of all that occurs, without which such experiments cannot have
any scientific value.
No. CLXXVIII.—VOL. X. APRIL, 1901.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates, - - 49
Annual General Meeting of Members of
the Society, 51
Meeting of the Council, 51
General Meeting, 63
Memorial to Lord Rayleigh,
Methods of Subliminal Mentation.
Balance Sheet for the Year 1900: -
Edmund Gurney Library Fund, -
II.,
58
61
63
64
NEW HONORARY ASSOCIATE.
PKIBITKOFF, V., Redaction du Rebus, Tsarskoe Selo, St. Petersburg.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are, printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
ADAMS, HENRY J., 26, Wakehurst Road, Wandsworth Common, S.W.
ANDERSON, Jos., JUNR., The Lodge, Clayton, Manchester.
ARNOLD, EDWARD G., 5, Daisy Terrace, Waterford.
Barlow, Rev. J. W., M.A., Vice-Provost of Trinity College, Dublin.
Binney, Rev. Maximilian, F.B., M.A., The Vicarage, Richmond,
Surrey.
Box, ALFRED MARSHALL, c/o Cooper, Box and Co., Ltd., 69, Alder-
manbury, London, E.G.
CORRANCE, HENRY C., B.A., Clyde Villa, Preston, Brighton.
CRICKMAY, Miss ELLEN F. ST. A., 5, Stanhope Road, Streatham, S.W.
CROZIER, JOHN BEATTIE, (HoN. LL.D.), M.B., 9, Elgin Avenue, West-
bourne Park, London, W.
DAVIES, CHARLES S., The Pollards, Victoria Avenue, Farnworth,
Widnes, Lancashire.
EMSON, CHARLES W., Torrington, Ditton Hill, Surrey.
GARCKE, EMILE, M.I.E.E., Sunnyside, Bedford Park. London, W.
HARRIS, HENRY B., 37, Kensington Square, London, W.
JAYE, WILLIAM R., Springwood Lodge, Oaktield Road, Clapton, N.E.
KER, THOMAS R., Dougalston, Milngavie, N.B.
LAMBERT, Miss A. R., Well House, Banstead, nr. Epsom, Surrey.
LAMBERT, Miss BEATRICE, 17, Marine Parade, Brighton.
LAZZARO, CLEON PAGE H., Salonica, Turkey in Europe.
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1901.
MONTGOMERY, MRS., Grey Abbey, Co. Down, Ireland.
MUDALIAK, P. RAMANATHA, 47, Swami Naidu Street, Chintadripet,
Madras.
NICOLLS, MRS., Nicosia, Cyprus.
NORTHCOTE, THE HON. AMYAS STAFFORD, The Thome, Great Berk-
hampstead.
Popoff, General James, Kamennoostrowsky Prospect, 44/16, St.
Petersburg, Russia.
Sloane, George G., B.A., Rarkeen House, Newcastle, Co. Down,
Ireland.
STEEN, Miss MAUD, Sharwagh, Bushmills, Co. Antrim.
STRONG, REV. CHARLES, D.D., St. Kilda East, Melbourne, Australia.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BEESON, HANNIBAL A., M.D., Leesburg, Ohio.
BLOSSOM, Miss MARY C., 46, East 21st Street, New York, N.Y.
BOSTON, C. A., Saint James, Minn.
BROWN, RONALD K., 320, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
CHANNING, DR. WM. E., 9, St. James Avenue, Boston, Mass.
CHAPMAN, HON. GEO. T., 220, Pearl Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
CURRIER, MRS. MOODY, Manchester, N.H.
DALE, ALAN, 110, St. Nicholas Avenue, New York, N.Y.
DOUGHERTY, MRS. JEANIE W., The Cairo, Washington, D.C.
ESTERLEY, MRS. GEO. W., 1115, East Capitol Street, Washington, D.C.
GABLE, GEO. A., Room 319, Wainwright Building, St. Louis, Mo.
GOCHNAUER, C. H., Laudisville, Pa.
Joss, REV. A. A., Bismarck, N.D.
LIBRARIAN, Ohio State Library, Columbus, Ohio.
NEWHALL, CHARLES L., Southbridge, Mass.
PADDOCK, FRANK S., 1, Paddock Building, Watertown, N.Y.
PAYNE, WM., 13|, State Street, Columbus, Ohio.
PETERSEN, MRS. E. W., 410-413, Mutual Life Building, Seattle, Wash.
PINCHOT, GIFFORD, 1615, R. I. Avenue, Washington, D.C.
POPE, Miss THEODATE, Box 176, Farmington, Conn.
Ray, Miss Lydia P., Franklin, Mass.
RICHARDSON, G. K., Pres. Iowa Valley State Bank, Belmond, Iowa.
RIGDON, CHAS. WM., c/o J. S. Rigdon, Hibernian Bank, Chicago, 111.
SHURTLEFF, REV. E. W., First Congregational Church, Minneapolis,
Minn.
STEPHENSON, ERNEST P., 117, West 58th Street, New York, N.Y.
VAN GEISON, DR. IRA, Pathological Institute, 1 , Madison Avenue, New
York. N.Y.
APRIL, 1901.] New Members and Associates. 51
VEAZEY, J. PARKER, Great Falls, Montana.
WELSH, MRS. EDWARD L., 1422, Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Wood, John B., 346, Jurnpa Avenue, Riverside, Gal.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS OF
THE SOCIETY.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society for
Psychical Research was held at 19 Buckingham Street, Adelphi,
London, W.C., on March 8th, at 4 P.M.—Dr. Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.,
in the Chair.
The notice convening the meeting was read.
The Chairman said this was the fifth Annual Meeting of the Society
since its incorporation.
The names of the retiring Members of Council who offered themselves
for re-election, and other nominations, having been read, the Chairman
declared the following to be duly elected Members of Council : Mr.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt, Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Dr. Charles Lloyd Tuckey, Dr. J. Venn,
F.R.S., and Dr. Abraham Wallace.
The Chairman then drew the attention of the Members present to
the audited Statement of the Income and Expenditure of the Society
during 1900 which was on the table, and which would as usual be
printed in the Journal. A Statement of Assets and Liabilities on
December 31st, 1900, showed a slight improvement in the position of
of the Society during the year, no account being taken of the increasing
value of the Library and of the stock of Proceedings.
In reference to the position of the Society, the Chairman pointed out
that, notwithstanding a large number of losses by death, resignation,
and other causes, during the past twelvemonth, there had been a
slight increase in the membership, both of the English Society and of
the American Branch. The total number of names on the list of the
English Society had increased from 946 to 951, and the number on
the list of the American Branch from 472 to 481.
There being no response to an invitation for remarks from the
Members present, the Chairman then declared the meeting closed.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the close of the Annual General Meeting above
reported. Dr. Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., occupied the Chair. There were
also present, Dr. A. W. Barrett, Hon. E. Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1901.
Mr. St. George Lane Fox Pitt, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. Sydney C. Scott,
Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Sir Augustus K. Stephenson, K.C.B., Dr. C.
Lloyd Tuckey, and Dr. A. Wallace.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
The following minute was adopted : The Members of the Council
hereby put on record their deep sense of the bereavement which the
Society has suffered by the death of its late President, Frederic W. H.
Myers. Of the brilliant services which he rendered to Psychical
Eesearch they will always retain the most appreciative and grateful
recollection, and they look forward with confidence to the time when
the scientific world will join in their recognition of the great value of
his work.
Report was made that the Annual General Meeting had been held
and that Members of Council had been elected as stated above.
Dr. Oliver J. Lodge was elected as President of the Society for the
entering year.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Mr. Arthur Miall,
were re-elected as Hon. Treasurer, Hon. Secretary, and Auditor respec
tively for the ensuing year.
The following were co-opted as Members of Council for the ensuing
year: Mr. M. Crackanthorpe, K.C., Hon. E. Feilding, Dr. R. Hodgson, Mr.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt, Dr. G. F. Rogers, and Mr. J. G. Piddington.
Committees were elected as follows, with power in each case to add
to their number :
Committee of Reference—Professor W. F. Barrett, Sir W. Crookes,
Dr. R. Hodgson, Dr. W. Leaf, Dr. Oliver Lodge, Lord Rayleigh, Mrs.
H. Sidgwick, Mr. F. Podmore, Dr. J. Venn, and Mrs. Verrall.
Library Committee—Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, Hon. E. Feilding, Mr.
F. Podmore, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
Committee for Experiments—Dr. A. W. Barrett, Mr. Ernest N.
Bennett, Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, Hon. E. Feilding, Dr. Hodgson,
Dr. W. Leaf, Mr. St. George Lane Fox Pitt, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Dr. A. Wallace, and Mr. E.
Westlake.
House and Finance Committee—Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, and Lieut.-Colonel G. L. Le M. Taylor.
The existing lists of Corresponding Members and of Honorary
Associates were confirmed for the ensuing year, the names of two
Honorary Associates who had gone abroad, and with whom no com
munication had been recently held, being omitted, and the name of
APRIL, 1901.] Meeting of the Council. 53
Mr. V. Pribitkoff of St. Petersburg, who was elected an Honorary
Associate on the suggestion of Mr. Petrovo-Solovovo, being added.
Four new Members and twenty-two new Associates were elected.
The election of two new Members and twenty-nine new Associates of
the American Branch was recorded. The names and addresses are
given above.
At the request of Mrs. Verrall her name was transferred from the
list of Associates to that of Members.
The removal by death of five Associates of the Society during the
last few months was recorded with regret.
The resignation of one Member and seventeen Associates, who for
various reasons desired to terminate their connection with the Society
at the end of 1900, was accepted.
Some presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donors.
The audited Statement of Accounts was referred to the House and
Finance Committee, who were requested to prepare an estimate of
Income and Expenditure for the current year, and present it with their
report to the next meeting of the Council.
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Council should be held on
Friday, the 19th of April, at 3 P.M., at the Westminster Town Hall,
previous to the General Meeting arranged for that day.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE lllth General Meeting of the Society was held in the Westminster
Town Hall, on Friday, March 8th, at 8.30 P.M.
MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON announced that DR. OLIVER LODGE, F.R.S.,
had been elected President of the Society for the year.
DR. LODGE then took the chair and delivered an address on his pre
decessor, Mr. F. W. H. Myers. He began by urging that the loss
sustained by the Society in the death, within a few months, of two of
its founders and leading members, irreparable though it was, ought to
stimulate those who remained to fresh exertions. The work of the
pioneers—the founding and handing on to posterity of a new science—
was unaccomplished, and the workers who were still left must not be
permitted to disband and scatter until their work was done.
Passing then to dwell on the memory of the Society's late President,
he proceeded to point out that Myers' grasp of science was profound.
Dr. Lodge referred not so much to Myers' detailed knowledge of
particular sciences—though he could, when necessary, master the bare
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1901.
technical details—as to his philosophic grasp of the principles and
wider meanings of science, in this resembling the accurate and
comprehensive vision of Tennyson. During the last twenty-five years,
in fact, Myers had been laying the foundations of a cosmic philosophy,
a comprehensive scheme of existence. No philosopher ever brought to
his task a mind so well stored with facts : from personal enquiry, from
the testimony of all the savants of Europe, he was intimately acquainted
with the workings of the mind in health and disease : he had studied
every abnormal condition, and had accumulated a vast storehouse of
facts and observations drawn from the little known regions of halluci
nation, automatism, dreams, multiple personality, and the mechanism of
genius. It was Myers' peculiar function to bring the whole of these
scattered phenomena to a common focus ; to discover the unity which
underlies their difference, and present them as a whole. His two
volumes on Human Personality, shortly to appear, would testify how
vast was his grasp of the problems presented, and how profound his
insight.
Dr. Lodge then went on to consider the depth and assurance of
Myers' own personal conviction of a future life. The years of struggle
and effort and systematic thought had begotten in him a confidence as
absolute and supreme as is to be found in the holiest martyr or saint.
And to himself it seemed that the conviction came not, as to the martyr
and the saint, by faith, but as the result of a strenuous and life-long
struggle for knowledge. However attained, his conviction of a never-
ending future for the soul of man was fixed, and in his later years
unwavering. In his own words :
" That hour may come when Earth no more can keep
Tireless her year-long voyage thro' the deep ;
Nay, when all planets, sucked and swept in one,
Feed their rekindled solitary sun.
Nay, when all Suns that shine, together hurled,
Crash in one infinite and lifeless world.
Yet, hold thou still, what worlds soe'er may roll,
Nought bear they with them master of the soul.
She shall endure and quicken and live at last
When all, save souls, has perished in the past,"
A belief as intimate and as assured as his own was the legacy that
Frederic Myers sought to leave to the race.
MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON then read extracts from a paper by PRO
FESSOR WILLIAM JAMES on Frederic Myers' services to Psychology.
Mr. James began by pointing out that the quest which Myers had put
APRIL, 1901.] General Meeting. 55
before himself was that of evidence of immortality, and that his con
tributions to Psychology were incidental to that quest. But the service
which he rendered to Psychology was nevertheless of a very original and
striking kind. It was Myers who first definitely opened up the whole
region of the subconscious mind, and devised methods for investigating
its resources, by crystal gazing, automatic writing, trance speaking,
and the like. His great achievement was to bring unity into an
assemblage of heterogeneous phenomena ; to show the analogies and
resemblances between things seemingly so wide apart as hallucination,
demoniacal possession, hysteria, and the visions of genius ; to weave
them into a system.
Myers showed that the great region of mental activity, which he
named the subliminal, contained matter of various kinds, various in its
origins and in its utility ; some was mere rubbish, lapsed fragments of
memory ; some the stuff of which day-dreams are made ; but here and
there we came across indications of faculties and modes of perception
superior to those of common waking life.
The corner-stone of Myers' system was the conception that
the " consciousness " of the classic psychology is but a portion of
a larger whole—a fragment of a spectrum—an organism in per
petual process of evolution. His evolutionary conception of conscious
ness was in the writer's view an hypothesis of first-rate philosophic
importance, and might be destined to play a leading part in
the psychology of the future. Whether Myers' hypotheses were, in
fact, justified or not, they were at any rate far more plausible
than those of the classic psychology. Nature was everywhere
gothic not classic ; and Myers, in contrast to the clearly defined and
nicely articulated consciousness of the old psychology, presented us
with a vast aggregate of half-shaped, half-systematized, and partly
incoherent phenomena—a veritable jungle such as Nature herself is
wont to show to the explorer.
The writer then contrasted the official view of the consciousness
which survives death, an abstract mentality living on spiritual truth,
and communicating ideal wisdom—the academic platonizing Sunday-
school conception—with the view of human survival presented by
Myers.
The ordinary psychologist was a philosopher in the technical
sense, a metaphysician with a fondness for logical abstractions.
Myers was primarily a lover of life ; he loved human persons
and human idiosyncrasies more than the eternal essences, the
crystal battlements, the platonic ideas. He was in psychology what
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1901.
a field naturalist is in biology. It was not logical analysis of
faculties, or the laboratory work of psychology which interested him,
but the mechanism in action : human beings as they lived and worked.
Whatever verdict might ultimately be passed upon his work, he
would, it was likely, be long remembered as the pioneer who staked
out and claimed for science a vast tract of mental wilderness.
DR. LODGE then read part of a paper by PROFESSOR CHARLES
RiCHET of Paris :
M. RICHET pointed out that 'in Myers there was a felicitous
blending of intellectual qualities apparently contradictory, the faith
of a mystic with the wisdom and precision of the man of science : he
was at once a penetrating psychologist, a rigorous experimentalist, a
profound philosopher, and the ardent apostle of a new faith.
At his first meeting with Myers, in the early days of the Society
for Psychical Research, M. Richet was tempted to accuse him of
undue credulity ; but he soon learned to appreciate his scientific
habit of thought, his passion for accuracy and his profound erudition.
Henceforth, whenever the writer met with any new phenomenon, his
first impulse was always to submit it to Myers' judgment. They
united in many investigations of clairvoyants, trance speakers, and
spirit mediums, and M. Richet had abundant opportunities for
admiring Myers' ingenuity, industry, and indefatigable perseverance.
To Myers the success of the International Congresses of Experi
mental Psychology at Paris, London, Munich, and again at Paris
last year was largely due. He compelled the adherents of the
classical psychology and philosophy to pay attention to the new
problems which he presented to them ; he rescued telepathy, pre
monitions, thought-transference and kindred subjects from the
scientific ostracism which had hitherto excluded them from discussion,
and he was able thus to enforce a hearing, not by his audacity, but
by his rigid adherence to logical principles and scientific methods.
He did not live to witness the final triumph of his views, but he
had left the whole subject in a position very different to that which
it occupied twenty years ago, and in the psychology of the future
his name would be handed down as one of its great pioneers.
MR. FRANK PODMORE then read a paper dealing briefly with the
services rendered by Frederic Myers to the Society for Psychical
Research.
From the foundation of the Society he had been one of its most
active members, and since the death of Edmund Gurney he had
taken an ever-increasing share in the ordinary routine work of its
APRIL, 1901.] General Meeting. 57
administration. To his activities in the research work done by the
Society his numerous and weighty contributions to the Journal
and Proceedings bore eloquent testimony.
Mr. Podmore then touched upon Mr. Myers' philosophic work,
and pointed out that even those who found themselves unable to accept
without qualification the conclusions which he drew could unreservedly
admire the characteristic qualities of his genius as exhibited in this
part of his work. One of his most conspicuous qualities was his
assiduity ; as Edmund Gurney had once said, " Whilst I am reading a
book Myers will master a literature." He possessed also a marvellous
power of generalisation and of classification. The latter gift, the
speaker thought, was of special value in researches such as those
undertaken by the Society. Even though later knowledge should
upset some of the principles of classification, the power to bring order
—if only provisional order—into a vast assemblage of heterogeneous
phenomena was of great practical utility, inasmuch as it facilitated
discussion and provoked further investigation. It was moreover a
rare quality.
Of the richness and fertility of Myers' mind it was difficult to speak,
except in terms which to those who did not know his work must sound
extravagant. No one, in fact, could read any of Myers' writings with
out gaining innumerable glimpses of new order in the materials and
fresh side-lights on old problems.
His literary gifts were too well known to need much comment. But
members of the Society who had frequently heard him speak extempore,
or rise to meet some emergency, could appreciate the wonderful richness
and beauty of his language even in such unstudied utterances,
when he chose to be brief, and of many good things to choose only
the best, more even than in his prepared and more elaborate essays.
It was of interest to recall in this connection that the vocabulary
of the new psychology owed much to Myers ; amongst his best-known
coinages were telepathy, subliminal, and supernormal.
Mr. Podmore then spoke of Frederic Myers' firm conviction of a
future life, and of his complete happiness in that belief. He had
written to the speaker announcing the near coming of the end, and
spoke of himself as one waiting to be summoned home.
The President then announced that two or three communications had
been received from other friends, which time would not admit of being
read in full that evening. All these would however appear, together
with the papers already read, in a forthcoming number of the
Proceedings. A letter was read from Professor Barrett in which he
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1901
said, " I shall be glad if the Chairman will express how much I regret
being unable to be present at this meeting, and how heartily I join in
the tributes which will be given to the memory of our late President
and dear friend, whose loss we so deeply deplore. "
Mr. C. C. Massey then said a few words. He Jiad been one of
those who had known Mr. Myers in the days before the Society was
founded, and afterwards he had worked with him for some years at the
task of collecting and appraising the evidence afterwards published in
Phantasms of the Living, and in the Society's Proceedings. He had had
the best opportunities of recognizing and admiring Myers' rich intellec
tual endowment, his high character, and profound spiritual insight.
THE MEMORIAL, OF WHICH A COPY IS FEINTED BELOW,
WAS FORWARDED TO LORD RAYLEIGH ON THE
18TH FEBRUARY.
To LORD RAYLEIGH.
We, the undersigned members of the Council of the Society for
Psychical Research, individually and collectively beg to approach your
Lordship with the petition that you will consent to take up the
Presidency of our Society, vacant by the death of F. W. H. Myers.
The Society, started nineteen years ago under the Presidency of
Henry Sidgwick, has loyally and faithfully begun the work for which
it was called into being, and has achieved some measure of success in
investigating the difficult and neglected field of ultra-normal mental
powers. We claim that its labours, if they have not yet established
beyond controversy the fact of telepathy, have accumulated in its
favour evidence difficult to controvert and impossible to ignore, and
have thrown much light on the workings of sub-conscious intelligence
generally ; we see avenues opening into other and connected regions
of discovery, and we are impressed with the importance of the know
ledge that may thus be gained. We think it would be a blow to true
science if the quest were in any sense weakened at the present stage,
when we are nearer than ever before to a hope that the subject-matter
of our researches may be recognised by long-established scientific
societies, and be incorporated with the main streams of substantial
human knowledge and inquiry.
But the deaths of Sidgwick and Myers, within a few months of
each other, have left us without a leader, and lamentably weakened
us even as workers. Yet there are some of us who have hoped that
an ultimate outcome of our research might be a scientific proof of the
APRIL, 1901.] Memorial to Lord Rayleigh 59
continuity of individual intelligence and memory across the psychical
event called death, of whose psychological significance Science is at
present uncertain. On lower grounds, however, we feel that so great
a calamity as their loss should weld together and strengthen those that
remain, and may justifiably call for some measure of self-sacrifice on
their part in order to continue as well as they can the work so
laboriously and powerfully initiated by those who have gone.
We know, some of us know very well, how arduous and how
absorbing is the work to which you have set yourself. We know also
that some of it is work which no other man can do, and we should
be utterly unjustified in seeking to persuade you to withdraw your
attention from any part of it. We know further that you are assisting
the Government in various ways, and that this public service must
already consume some of your too valuable time.
Yet we cannot refrain from urging upon you, in the strongest
manner, that here and now in connection with Psychical Research it
lies in your power to do a service to the science of the future which no
one else can render. We do not ask you to give any considerable
amount of time or energy to the work, as we have ascertained that
Oliver Lodge is willing to act as your Deputy, but we ask you to lend
us the high scientific authority of your name, we ask you for counsel
and guidance ; and we feel that we shall then have secured something
which will go far to balance our recent heavy losses, and will help us
to keep the Society at the level it has already attained, or perhaps to
raise it above that level.
If you consent we will do our utmost .to avoid encroaching on your
time, and will seek each in his own way to maintain so far as we are
able, in the spirit of our lost leaders, the essentially scientific reputation
of our Society for candour, care, and caution.
February 14th, 1901.
The following authorised their signatures to be appended to the above
Memorial :—
THE RT. HON. A. J. BALFOUR, M.P., F.R.S., Vice-President.
PROFESSOR W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S., Vice-President.
SIR WILLIAM CROOKES, F.R.S., Vice-President.
THE RT. REV. THE BISHOP OF RIPON, Vice-President.
A. W. BARRETT, M.B.
J. MILNE BRAMWELL, M.B.
MONTAGUE CRACKANTHORPE, K.C.
MR. REGISTRAR HOOD.
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1901.
WALTER LEAF, Litt.D.
OLIVER LODGE, LL.D., F.E.S.
CHARLES F. G. MASTERMAN.
J. G. PlDDINGTON.
FRANK PODMORE.
GEORGE F. ROGERS, M.D.
SYDNEY C. SCOTT.
H. ARTHUR SMITH.
SIR A. K. STEPHENSON, K.C.B., K.C.
CHARLES LLOYD TUCKEY, M.D.
ABRAHAM WALLACE, M.D.
LORD RAYLEIGH'S REPLY.
10, Downing Street,
DEAR LODGE, Whitehall, S.W.
I have given anxious consideration to the Memorial signed by
members of the Council of the Psychical Society.
While I cannot but feel highly complimented by the confidence they
express, I find myself unable to accept the office of President.
This decision does not imply any doubt on my part of the import
ance of continuing the work of the Society, in spite of recent terrible
losses, but is taken on the ground that I am already greatly over
weighted, and am in danger of finding my own scientific work crowded
out. To figure in a merely nominal position would be satisfactory
neither to the Society nor to myself, and would moreover still leave
me with a feeling of responsibility, which is a large part of the burden
of office.
I much regret not being able to assist the Society in an hour of
need.
Yours very truly,
RAYLEIGH.
February 22nd, 1901.
MR. THOMAS HARDY AND MR. W. ARCHER ON
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
THE Pall Mall Magazine for April contains a record of a conversation
between the two writers named, in the course of which telepathy and
apparitions are discussed. Both writers are sympathetic, but Mr.
Hardy especially demands more evidence before he can accord belief.
The article will well repay perusal.
APRIL, 1901.] Methods of Subliminal Mentation. 61
METHODS OF SUBLIMINAL MENTATION. II.
( Continued from the March Journal. )
Of hardly less value than the study of supernormal faculties—and
indeed indispensable for any just appraisement of them—is the study of
occasional heightenings of the normal faculties—the various hyperees-
thesise of the senses, of the interpretation of sensations, or of memory.
" Hypersesthesia," says Mr. Myers in an article in Proceedings, S.P.R.,
vol. xi., p. 410), "may be peripheral or central—that is to say, it may
consist in the heightened perception of sensations coming from outside
our organism, or from within the brain." He proceeds to give " some
cases of apparent telsesthesia, or of apparent prevision, which may
possibly, though by no means certainly, be referable to an extension of
the external senses." Thus, Mr. P. H. Newnham hears an internal
voice saying to him, " You'll find Chaonia [a certain rare moth] on that
oak " ; walks up to the oak and finds it. A geologist has a sudden
mental vision of a peculiar variety of fern just before coming across it.
An engine-driver has a sudden impulse to stop his train just in time to
prevent a collision. All these are cases which may have depended on
subconscious interpretations of very slight visual or auditory sensations,
and in which " subliminal perception may have been slightly quicker
and more delicate than supraliminal."
The following are cases of a similar kind—probably explicable in the
same way—that have recently been sent to us by Mr. Gilbert Murray,
ex-Professor of Greek in the University of Glasgow. The third incident,
though obviously on a different footing from the others, is perhaps
worth mentioning in connection with them. The account was contained
in a letter to Mrs. Verrall, dated January 17th, 1901, as follows :—
. . . Yesterday afternoon, about 3.30, I was waiting in the garden to take
Denis for a walk, and passed the time in going as high as I could on a
swing. Suddenly I felt convinced that the swing would break. Then (1) I
reflected that if it broke while I was going forward I must jump so as
to avoid a certain clump of roses trained round thick stumps, while if it
broke when I was going backwards and threw me over a bank that there
was, I felt uncertain what would be best to do. (2) I thought that after all
it was practically certain that both ropes would not break together, and that
I could hold tight to the sound one. (3) I said to myself half-aloud, " Aged
man, are you getting nervous ? " and worked myself a little higher. Then
one rope broke ; I clung to the other and was swung away backwards with a
wrench and came down unhurt. I also remember feeling—after my first
misgiving—that at any rate there was not the slightest symptom of the rope
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1901.
or branch being in any way weak or wrong. I paid attention to this,
of course.
I think the probable explanation is that I was influenced by some uncon
scious observation of odd behaviour on the part of the rope. But it
was entirely unconscious, and not even discernible when I paid attention
to it.
This recalls another funny thing of the same sort. Several months ago,
while coming down stairs, I looked at a hanging lamp that we have in the
hall. It hung by a brass chain. I thought, " I wonder if that chain is
holding all right." Instead of going straight to the drawing-room, whither I
was bound, I turned aside to the lamp, reached up and felt it underneath,
just relieving the weight and letting it sink again. The chain broke, and
the lamp came off in my hands. The globe was broken in falling, but
nothing more.
For a " third libation," of a very small sort, I think you have told me that
you have heard flies walking. I heard one perfectly distinctly the other day
walking rather noisily on crisp tracing-paper ! I was tracing costumes from
a vase-book for Andromache. I doubt if this was hyperassthesia at all ; I
think any one could have heard him. . . .
GILBERT MURRAY.
APRIL, 1901.] 63
Statement of Accounts.
• CO O ^* tO N O CD O O CO O CD O CD CO CS Cs
T3 ~ ' r-. " .- I
iC • CO O OS CO 5Q CO €"•- O O t— O O 'O lf£ O CD t- eo
el^
'_• "i-H rH i—IT-HI-HI—t rH i-H t-
^[^ c£t ^ j2 "* Sr .*' ^ ccicicict— wc^-^ccco c
^H •* F-H ' " ' i-
Qi _j o CD to co *H
S
) lg>^
.,
ountant.
4
r-T 0 u-C
egg
ill
Cq * - - r-' 1» a * tjo g| §• S S
J5 ... ; ; •0 •0 ^ -^ ; ; «g ; g ; ; & = — w55
o
o
CO
0
g 1
* %
% 8
H
<^
»3
hq
g
O
H-H
S
M
0 5i
CO QJ
CM O
O ^
fa fej
to
H
O
t^
g
EN
I
^
ftn
N
».&sw& S S S b
; ; . . Ilia g .M .B . .|s
: • s a ..1 : s :<J! : : 1?
3 IO I
ard nt
ughlast
^OOO | O O O
OS O O OS O O
~«"
••s«s
,
fr ha
M
J3
50 .2 £
,2-0 Pi
t^ s
il9
g»3
S-sos
11
^ll
HI"
•^>.2 o
!|l
-!>
"So^
•S "^
S^= -
o"^ S
gss
<!S»
°IJ
JJTjj
^ -m § 0'
T3 oi-|i'J=l
^s
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APKIL, 1901
pa
w
<&
0
» s
C£ O
cc
«
OS
M
I
S
O i-l 00 O
M i-l CO O
' t- ,j: cc I-H
§
o
w
^,
5
151
5 a a
> § § a
'»l|
ion!
No. CLXXIX.—VOL. X. MAY, 1901.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates,
Meeting of the Council, -
General Meeting, . - -
An Unfulfilled Presentiment,
- 65
- 66
- 67
- 69
Note on some Automatic Messages,
Correspondence — The Future of the
Society,
Notes on a Case in the March Journal, .
70
74
77
78
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Clarke, Mrs. M. J., West Grange, Cambo R S.O., Northumberland.
HUDSON, MORRIS, The Hermitage, Guildford.
KAZNAKOFF, SERGE, 48, Nadejdinskaia, St. Petersburg.
K.EIL, MRS. VICTOR, 5, Brandhofgasse, Graz, Austria.
MALLET, Louis, 215, King's Road, Chelsea, S.W.
O'Neill de Tyrone, His Excellency Jorge, 59, Kua das Flores, Lisbon.
YAROSCHENKO, MADAME, Stchelkanovo, Russia.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ELAINE, MRS. EMMONS, 344, Erie Street, Chicago, 111.
BRUNDAGE, J. M., Andover State Bank, Andover, N.Y.
FOGARTY, WM., c/o American Oak Tanning Co., New Decatur, Ala.
GIBSON, HENRY S., P.O. Box, 1055, New York, N.Y.
HARRIS, JOHN S., 46, East Broadway, Room 10, Butte, Montana.
HENRICI, JACOB, 6126, Penn Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Holt, Mrs. A. Stewart, 224, West 132nd Street, New York, N.Y.
HUME, W. HECTOR H., Mutual Life Insurance Co. of N.Y., Foreign
Department, 59, Cedar Street, New York, N.Y.
KNOWLES, HON. HIRAM, Butte, Montana.
LIBRARIAN, Chicago Theological Seminary, Hammond Library, 43,
Warren Avenue, Chicago, 111.
LIBRARIAN, Newton Free Library, Newton, Mass.
LONG, W. E., 1107, Second Avenue, Sterling, 111.
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1901.
MARSTON, DR. LUTHER M., 149A, Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
MEISSNER, MRS. DE, 2928, P. Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
MOORE, HON. MILES C., Walla Walla, Washington.
PITMAN, J. E., Andover, Mass.
PRESIDENT of Board of Trustees, Free Public Library, Jersey City, N.J.
SMITH, Miss AGNES, c/o Miss Armstrong, 1091, Fourth Avenue,
Detroit, Mich.
SMITH, MRS. FREDERICK H., JUN., 321, Mount Prospect Avenue,
Newark, N.J.
STEPHENS, DR. I. C., Carleton, Nebraska.
TATE, F. M., Keokuk, la.
WILLIAMS, WM. G., M.D., Westside, Claiborne Co., Miss.
WILSON, MRS. WOODS, 41, South-street, Stamford, Conn.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met at the Westminster Town Hall on April 19th.
Sir Augustus K. Stephenson was voted to the chair until the arrival
of the President, a few minutes after the meeting commenced. There
were also present, Mr. M. Crackanthorpe, Mr. J. S. Piddington, Mr. F.
Podmore, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Dr. C. Lloyd
Tuckey, and Dr. A. Wallace. Miss Alice Johnson was also present
after co-optation.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as correct.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for the
current year: Mr. Ernest N. Bennett, Miss Alice Johnson, Mr. F. C. S.
Schiller, Lieut.-Col. Le M. Taylor, and Mrs. Verrall.
One new Member and six new Associates were elected. The
election of one new Member and twenty-two new Associates of the
American Branch was recorded. The names and addresses are given
above.
The Council recorded with regret the death of Mrs. Wingfield, who
had been for many years an Hon. Associate of the Society, and also of
Mr. Henry Adkins, J.P., who had been an Associate during the last
few years.
An arrangement made since the last meeting of the Council, for a
General Meeting to be held on June 14th, at 4 P.M., at the Westminster
Town Hall, was confirmed.
Several presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was accorded to the donors.
MAY, 1901.] Meeting of the Council. 67
The draft of an Address from the Council to the Members of the
Society was under consideration, and was approved, subject to various
suggestions made by several Members of Council.
A Report was read from the House and Finance Committee,
together with an Estimate of the Income and Expenditure for the
current year.
Several other matters connected with the future arrangements and
work of the Society received attention, and will be further considered
at the next meeting of the Council, which will be on Friday, May 17th,
at 4.30 P.M. ; whether at the Society's Rooms, or at the Westminster
Town Hall, will be determined before the notices are sent out to the
Members of the Council.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 112th General Meeting of the Society was held in the West
minster Town Hall, at 4 P.M., on Friday, the 19th of April, the
PRESIDENT in the chair.
DR. LODGE briefly introduced to the meeting the reader of the
paper, Dr. F. van Eeden of Bussum, Holland. DR. VAN EEDEN,
who spoke throughout in correct and fluent English, then read an
account of some sittings with Mrs. Thompson. He began by pointing
out that those who accepted psychical phenomena as genuine in the
main were divided into two parties, the spiritualists and the non-
spiritualists, both parties including many persons of intellectual dis
tinction. The first theory, the speaker held, was much the simpler.
It was the more directly suggested by the facts, and it afforded a
complete explanation of them. Nor was there anything intrinsically
absurd, or even improbable, in the hypothesis of spirit agency ; on the
contrary, it seemed philosophically probable that there were many
grades of existence above our own, and that man's senses were far
from providing the measure of the universe. God's Infinity, as
Spinoza said, is expressed in an infinite number of ways.
On the other hand, the principle of scientific parsimony required
that we should not postulate new causes until we had exhausted the
possibilities of those which we know, and the non-spiritualist party
claimed that we must not assume spirits until we can prove that
telepathy cannot furnish an adequate explanation of the facts.
Dr. van Eeden then gave a few illustrations of the facts communi
cated to him at his own sittings with Mrs. Thompson, which were
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1901.
sufficient at any rate to convince him that knowledge of his private
affairs was shown beyond what fraud or chance or successful guessing
could explain. At the first sitting, though strict precautions had been
taken to conceal his name and nationality, his Christian name was
given, an allusion made to his profession, and a recognisable attempt
was made to pronounce his surname.
Later his full name was given, the names of his wife and one of his
children, and his residence. Again, he brought to Mrs. Thompson two
articles, a lock of hair and a piece of clothing. The first was identified
correctly, as the hair of a man who had lived and died in Utrecht.
The latter had been cut from the clothes of a suicide ; an exact
description was furnished of the young man, and of the manner of his
death, and even his familiar name was given. At some sittings facts
were given which were not within the speaker's knowledge, and were
afterwards verified. None of these things, however, aiforded, as Dr.
van Eeden pointed out, crucial proof of spirit identity. No such proof
was possible until we had learnt more of the limits and possibilities
of telepathy and clairvoyance. Nor on the other hand are we justified
in inferring from mistakes and inconsistencies that the soi-disant spirit
personalities are necessarily fictitious. Dr van Eeden had himself felt
at one or two sittings a profound conviction that he was in actual
communication with the spirit of a deceased friend. On the other
hand his own observations had led him to doubt the existence of the
so-called controlling spirits. In his view these pseudo-personalities
were probably artificial productions created by the medium's sub
conscious imagination ; and for these creations the credulity, the want
of caution, and generally the over-eagerness of the sitters, were mainly
responsible.
After giving an account of some interesting and successful dream
experiments, in which he himself acted as agent and Mrs. Thompson
as percipient, Dr. van Eeden concluded by pointing out the special
danger attending this investigation ; the danger that enquirers through
over-zeal should impose their views upon the medium and receive
back from her mind merely the echo of their own desires and specu
lations. In no kind of science was there more need of patience,
prudence, and, as far as might be, an attitude of passive acceptance.
The PRESIDENT found himself in entire agreement with Dr. van
Eeden's claim that the world of conscious existence need not be
bounded by the human race. We know, he pointed out, the inhabitants
only of one small lump of matter, but the universe contained similar
lumps in infinite variety and with infinite possibilities of existence.
MAY, 1901.] General Meeting. 69
Dr. Lodge went on to speak of the admirable caution, and not less
admirable frankness, shown by Dr. van Eeden. He had himself
listened with interest and sympathy as Dr. van Eeden had described his
oscillations of opinion as the phenomena gradually developed themselves.
Dr. Lodge gave a recent case analogous to some of those quoted by Dr.
van Eeden ; a medium in Liverpool, who had been investigated by an
Associate of the Society, had been enabled, when a handkerchief was
presented, to give a full and accurate account of its owner, a man who
had been lately the victim of a serious mining accident.
DR. LODGE concluded by expressing the view that the ultimate
explanation of these trance utterances would prove to be more com
plicated than we at present realise. If through these utterances we can
get into communication with spirits, we are forced to recognise that it
is not the man as we know him in life ; we tap apparently by this
means only a fraction of a personality. Probably Myers' researches
in the subliminal Self would prove ultimately of great value in eluci
dating the mystery.
MRS. VERRALL, at whose house in Cambridge some of Dr. van
Eeden's sittings with Mrs. Thompson had taken place, bore testimony
to the fact that Dr. van Eeden was a most cautious and reticent sitter,
from whose talk and demeanour Mrs. Thompson's subliminal Self could
have received little help.
DR. WALLACE, MR. PIDDINGTON, MR. MONTAGU E. CRACKAN-
THORPE and others spoke, the discussion being chiefly concerned with
the dreams referred to and with the ability shown by Mrs. Thompson
in the trance to understand Dutch and even to speak a few words of
that language.
AN UNFULFILLED PRESENTIMENT.
THE following case is recorded by Mr. Leonard Huxley in the Life and
Letters of Thomas Henry Huxley (Macmillan, 1900). In the autumn of
1888 Huxley had gone abroad for his health. He had been much run
down when he started, but was at the time of the "presentiment"
decidedly better :
A curious incident in this journey deserves recording as an instance of a
futile "warning." On the night of October 6-7 [1888] Huxley woke in the
night and seemed to hear an inward voice say, " Don't go to Stuttgart and
Nxireniberg ; go straight home." All he did was to make a note of the
occurrence and carry out his original plan, whereupon nothing happened
(Vol. II. p. 205).
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1901.
NOTE ON SOME AUTOMATIC MESSAGES.
BY M. PETROVO-SOLOVOVO,
Honorary Secretary of the S.P.JR. for Russia.
LAST year a friend M. C. [assumed initial] and myself made some
experiments in automatic writing (by means of a saucer with pointer
moving over a sheet of paper with the letters of the alphabet) with
some curious results.
We obtained a series of messages purporting to proceed from a
certain M. Mainoff—a. Russian writer of some repute, who died in
1888; and some of these messages contained facts which, though not
consciously known to us, were verified and proved to be correct.
Many other statements could not be verified, and some appear to be
altogether false. But, be this as it may, the nature of some of
the " veridical " messages was such as to completely exclude the
possibility of chance-coincidence ; and the only possible explanation
appears to me to be either hypersesthesia of memory (coupled
with personation) or the hypothesis of the external origin of the
messages.
At one time I was somewhat inclined to adopt the latter hypothesis ;
but as other " messages " proceeding apparently from the same source
contained facts which appeared to be false ; and as, on the other hand,
hypersesthesia of memory as a possible explanation could not be
altogether excluded (with one doubtful exception) from any of the
veridical cases,—I feel compelled to adopt it provisionally as explaining
them all, with a dim hope (a very dim one !) that future experiments
may still point to another solution.
I shall now proceed to the experiments themselves.
At our very first seance (on June 27th, 1900, my wife only being
present, besides M. C. and myself, and taking notes), the saucer began
to move very slowly and after spelling out a few words and names
it wrote : " Tchabany, we [are] Tchdbany." Neither my wife, nor M. C.,
nor I knew such a word. We asked about the language ; answer :
" Yours." Then it was written : " Southern." Then a name was
given (with mistakes in spelling), which I did not recognise, but which
C. found to be "Maxim Gorki," the pseudonym of a rising Russian
novelist.
Further enquiries elicited the facts that we could find information
about " Tchabany " in Gorki's tales,1 which were strongly recommended
1 Or perhaps that a tale of Gorki's is called so—this is not quite clear to me ; but if so,
this is incorrect, so far at least as his works already printed are concerned.
MAY, 1901.] Note on some Automatic Messages. 71
to us as "priceless, good"; and the name "Tchelkash" was also given
as the title of a tale.
We then asked who was speaking. Answer (not at once) ; "Mainoff."
"He" then explained that "he had died long ago"; then came the
words : "Gorki—good—tale—there [you] will find."
We then asked " him " for more information about himself, and
"Mainoff" made in this connection the following statements:
(1) That he "had written much about Russia, Finland, Karelia
(south-eastern part of Finland)."
(2) That his Christian name was " Volodia " (Russian pet name for
Vladimir); and that he "did not remember [his] wife."
(3) That he died 10 years ago, " but suffered more " ; (as a fact he died
in 1888, as stated).
(4) That his address in S. Petersburg was "Peski, 8th street"
(corrected at another seance to " Peski, 4th street, No. 8 " ; " Peski "
is, or rather was, the name of a quarter in S. Petersburg). He did not
remember (litt. : " see ") his address (litt. : " street ") in Helsingfors.
(5) In answer to the question where information about himself could
be obtained, the words : " Hel[singfors] " and " Gymnasium " were
spelt out.
Here the s6ance ended. It should be mentioned :
(1) That the existence of a Russian author named Mainoff was totally
unknown (at least consciously) both to C. and to my wife (who did not
touch the saucer, besides). As for myself, I remembered him -only as
the author of a " Guide Book " to Finland, which I very probably had
seen. Consciously I did not know—or remember—anything else about
him. (I may add here that the author's name on a copy of his " Guide
Book " I bought since the seance is printed as V. Mainoff—no Christian
name being given in full).
(2) That neither C. (who had read some of Gorki's works), nor my
wife, nor I knew of the existence of a tale of his called "Tchelkash";
nor did we know such a word as "Tchabany " (plural of "Tchaban ").
On the very next day, however, I learnt that the word " Tchaban " is
commonly used in South Russia with the meaning of shepherd ; and
on buying vol. I. of Gorki's tales I found " Tchelkash " among them.
"Tchabans" are besides mentioned and described more than once
in his other tales.
On the other hand on referring to the Brockhaus-Effront Russian
Encyclopaedia I found that Mainoff was the author of a great many
works besides his " Guide Book," chiefly on anthropology, one of them
being entitled " A Journey in Onega-land and Karelia." I also found
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1901.
that his Christian name was Vladimir, and that he had been for four years
(1882-1886) teacher at the Alexander " Gymnasium " in Helsingfors. (I
have also a letter in my possession signed by one of the officials of the
"Gymnasium" certifying the fact.)
I shall speak with regard to the address later on.
" Mainoff" manifested at further se'ances, literally overwhelming us
with facts—for which we were perpetually clamouring—which it was,
however, very hard to verify. Many could not be in spite of many
endeavours. Others were undoubtedly false with regard to the present
time (such as addresses given at Cannes and Moscow which were
verified and proved to be false), though they may not have been so
15 or 20 years ago (?). And at least one statement, and a very
important one—about Mainoff's children—seems to have been false
altogether. One statement, however, proved to be true, and a very
curious one. At our third sitting, in answer to a request for verifiable
facts1 "Mainoff" gave us the following: He had attended at one time
Paul Broca's lectures. Now neither C. nor I had any idea of this fact ;
however, it proved to be true on verification. A gentleman who replied
to an advertisement I caused to be inserted in a newspaper got for me
the confirmation of this fact from one of Mainoff's sons, now in Canada.
This circumstance impressed me a good deal ; and I considered it at the
time as strongly suggestive of an external origin.
However, il a fallu en rabattre. But first, I must say a few words
about the other " veridical " messages. It is obvious that none of them
was of such a character as to exclude its explanation by " latent
memory." The word " Tchaban," though forgotten by us, may very
possibly have been known both to C. and to myself. Ditto the
existence of a tale of Gorki's called Tchelkash. In the volume I bought
after our first sitting this name and several others are printed on the
cover ; the conclusion is obvious. The statements about Mainoff given
in the same sittings are given in several obituary notices of him I have
seen ; and so may have been known to us and forgotten.
I regret to say that the " Broca incident " proved no exception to
this rule, and that I soon managed to find out in the number of the
Novoe Fremia newspaper mentioning Mainoff's death on February
23rd (March 6th), 1888, a short notice of him in which the fact of his
having attended Broca's (without the Christian name) lectures was
duly mentioned. Now the Novoe Fremia is the most widely circulated
I 1 have not unfortunately in my possession the notes of this seance ; but I feel pretty
certain that it was in answer to a demand for test-facts that the information about Broca
was given us ; and at any rate we constantly asked for " tests."
MAY, 1901.] Note on some Automatic Messages. 73
of Russian daily papers ; and it is very probable that this passage
did fall under our eyes more than 12 years ago. Broca's Christian
name "Paul" is not, it is true, given in the number of the Novoe
Vremia referred to ; but then again it must have been known to
us once (and I even think C. knew it at the time).
To prove that hyperaesthesia of memory is insufficient as an
explanation of the Broca incident, we must surely have some other
" veridical " statements of such a character as to exclude it altogether.
Unfortunately no such statements have as yet been forthcoming.
There may be some among the many that could not be verified ; but if
so, it is to be specially regretted that of those which were verified none
reached the standard required.
" MainofFs " address as given at the first (and corrected at the third)
sitting at one time made me hope that in it would I find the proof
required ; but these expectations were not fulfilled. The fact of his
having once lived at Peski (I should rather say "in the Peskis," for
" Peski " literally means " sands ") was, it is true, confirmed by his son
(now in America) in a letter sent to a gentleman who kindly con
sented to act as intermediary between him and me; but he did not
remember the precise address. Still this partial confirmation looked
encouraging ; and I therefore made strenuous and numerous efforts to
learn the exact address, almost every conceivable track being followed
—but, alas, without success.
I ought to mention, however, that in an answer I received from the
Paris SocieU d'Anthropologie, of which Mainoff was a member, neither of
the two addresses given is in accordance with that mentioned in the
" message " ; nor does it agree with the one given in the announcement
of Mainoff's death as printed in the Novosti newspaper, nor with such
well-known facts as Mainoff having been a teacher at Helsingfors
between 1882 and 1886. The mystery therefore remains unsolved.
There is no connection, it should be finally stated, between Mainoff
and Gorki's works (which, by the way, a friend had strongly recom
mended me to read a few days before the first se'ance, without,
however, mentioning by name either "Tchelkash" or "Tchaban").
All of them were printed, and, I think, written a few years after
MainofFs death. But more than this;—at our last seance "Mainoff"
positively stated that the "Gorki" part of the "communications" did
not proceed from himself. " It is not my will which inspires[d i] [them],
but a will-less consciousness [sic !]." He did not, however, explain to
our satisfaction how it was that in those messages also facts were
mentioned of which we had no conscious knowledge.
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1901
It is much to be regretted that many of the facts stated by
"Mainoff" could not be verified in spite of many endeavours, and
until they are—though I have lost almost all hope of this !—no
definitive conclusion ought to be arrived at ; but as a somewhat
provisional statement the present account and discussion seem to me to
correspond pretty closely with what actually occurred.
It will be admitted on all hands, I think, that the whole incident is
curious. To me in particular it is most suggestive as proving at the
very least that a sentence printed twelve years since, and once seen
(if seen at all ?) may, when totally forgotten consciously, be reproduced
automatically, coupled with personation of a deceased human being, and
supplemented by other facts supplied undoubtedly by our memory
(Paid Broca). Be the precise explanation of this case what it may—
and, of course, I am not absolutely certain that " latent memory " in
such a form is in fact the correct explanation !—spiritualists of bygone
days were surely pardonable to adopt the " spirit hypothesis " in face
of such puzzling incidents.
I may also mention that several " clairvoyant " experiments were
made with the soi-disant Mainoff, which invariably failed.
[Mr. Solovovo sends us the following notes in corroboration of his
narrative from Mrs. Solovovo and Mr. C. The name of this gentleman
has been given us in confidence. —ED.]
January 24th, February 6th [1901].
I certify that, as related by my husband, I had no idea before the seances
of either the existence of Mainoff, or of Gorki's tale, "Tchelkash," or the
word "Tchaban." B. PBTROVO-SOLOVOVO.
I certify that all the facts of this case, as related by Mr. Petrovo-Solovovo,
are perfectly accurate, but they do not seem to me conclusive enough to
admit the idea of an external origin of the " messages." C.
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE FUTURE OF THE S.P.R.
SIR,—I was unfortunately unable to be present at the last meeting,
but I wish to draw the attention of members of the S.P.R. to the
somewhat alarming character of some remarks which seem to have
fallen from the lips of our distinguished new President, Dr. Lodge. I
can only hope that they were either misreported in the April Journal^
or that their context actually mitigated the impression they leave in
cold print.
MAY, 1901.] Correspondence. 75
Dr. Lodge is reported to have said that the Society must not be
permitted to disband and scatter until its work was done. Does he then
contemplate the possibility either that the Society may disband or that
its work may be conceived soon to be done? The first of these
alternatives we need not, I hope, at present discuss, but I have great
difficultj' in supposing how even the second could be seriously
advocated in the Society. How can we conceive our work ever to
be finished, except by sheer failure, the apprehension of which may
now surely be dismissed from our minds. There can no longer be any
doubt about the success of the Society, but only about the exact
character and ultimate bearing of the additions it has made to know
ledge: Even our most hostile critics among the professional
psychologists, with whom we should be so glad to co-operate if only
they could overcome their natural suspicion and jealousy, are reluc
tantly compelled to acknowledge this and to appeal to our researches.1
The original purpose therefore of the Society, to throw light upon the
dark corners of human psychology, has been successfully accomplished
to a far larger extent than its founders could reasonably have
anticipated. But success can, and must, only multiply our labours,
and to suppose that its success could become a pretext for its
dissolution, would at once lower the Society to the level of organisa
tions like the Liberation Society or the Cobden Club, who must
(formerly at least) have entertained real apprehensions lest they should
commit the happy despatch by the excess of their success.
But the S.P.R.'s work is surely different. Supposing we took the
most sanguine view of its possible achievements in the direction which
is popularly supposed to absorb its whole energies, but which is
certainly not its only useful and legitimate branch of research. Suppose
we assumed that within the next few years it collected adequate and
indefeasible evidence of man's survival of death. What then ? Surely
this gigantic achievement would not in any truly scientific society be
the prelude to its dissolution, but rather to a new and unequalled
outburst of activity. We should then perhaps get some appreciable
portion of humanity to care what happened to them after death. We
should be rendered intensely curious about the conditions of the
future life whose reality we should at length have succeeded in
establishing. And we should have a vast and fruitful field of labour
before us in improving and assuring the means of communication
1 This is particularly noticeable in the latest production hailing from this
quarter—Prof. Jastrow's Fact and Fable in Psychology—in which the " Facts " are
certainly not Prof. Jastrow's own.
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1901.
between this life and the next. In short our work would in reality
only be begun. I am sure that no one who really regards the S.P.R.
as a scientific society, and least of all Dr. Lodge, can take any very
different view of the prospects and future work of the Society.
This point leads me on to another, which I feel also has a consider
able bearing on the future of the Society. As one sorrows to see the
founders and leaders, who have conducted its policy so far and nursed
it patiently through the perils of its infancy, passing one by one over
to the majority, it is impossible not to ask the question—Is the Society
successful in gathering fresh recruits and replacing its lost leaders ? And
again—Is it as successful as it might be in enlisting the co-operation of the
rank and file of its members 1 Now while I should be the very last to
tarnish with the slightest breath of disparagement the services of the
Society's present officers, I find it not altogether easy to suppress
misgivings on both these points. Our officers are able men, self-
sacrificing men, but they are also busy men, in some cases extremely
busy men. They cannot give their whole time and energy to the
Society's work.
Hence the thought suggests itself whether the Society should not
aim at safeguarding its future by training up one or more expert
investigators to conduct its work. Its position, both scientifically and
financially, is now assured enough to justify men (or women) of ability
in looking forward to making Psychical Research the scientific study of
their life, and interest in the subject has never been lacking. Can we
not, then, make the Assistant Secretaryship of the S.P.R. a position for
a professional, trained expert ? In other words, can we not duplicate,
or rather multiply, Dr. Hodgson ?
The question seems to me to be a purely financial one. The only
answer can be, that this would be an excellent plan if the funds were
forthcoming.
And this brings me to my last point. I understand that at the
meeting whose proceedings have suggested these reflections many
eloquent papers were read in honour of Mr. Myers. Mr. Myers himself,
similarly, paid an exquisite tribute to the memory of Prof. Sidgwick.
These are fair words, but words are not enough wherewith to honour
such strenuous workers. And where are the deeds ? Would it not
be better and more useful if we made an attempt to provide for the
permanence of the Society which Messrs. Sidgwick and Myers helped
to found, by securing a permanent endowment for a work which
must needs (humanly speaking) be permanent ?
For this purpose money will be needed, and needed in very con
MAY, 1901.] Correspondence. 77
siderable sums. Able young men cannot be obtained unless the Society
offers the prospect of an interesting and permanent career. And, again,
as our President pointed out some time ago, the equipment of modern
scientific research has become a very expensive thing. Men are the
primary requisite, but no one who seriously considers the future of
Psychical Research can doubt that eventually laboratories with costly
apparatus will become necessary.
But how is this money to be found 1 I should answer, by asking for
it, in the first place, strenuously and persistently. I have no doubt that
a considerable sum might, in spite of war and bad times, be raised from
our present members. A college tutor is not an overpaid person, but I
should myself be glad to contribute £10 to such a fund.
And, secondly, the membership of the Society is surely capable of
considerable enlargement. There must be more than 800 persons in
the country who can be induced to take an annual guinea's worth of
interest in a question which will in a few years' time dwarf all others
for them personally. I should estimate the real number as nearer 8000.
And it would be part of the duty of an Organizing Secretary, such as I
feel the Society must have (sooner rather than later), to find out these
persons and to get them to join. If they did, the financial difficulty
would solve itself by the natural growth of the Society.
In any case I feel that the time has come for action, and hope that
this letter may do something to forward it, or at least elicit expressions
of opinion from others, and remain, yours sincerely,
F. C. S. SCHILLER.
COKPUS CHRISTI COLLEGE,
OXFORD, IGth April.
[This letter, we understand, is a spontaneous expression of opinion,
and was written in ignorance of the fact that the Council has at the
present time under consideration the issue of an appeal to members
and associates of the Society for co-operation and support on the lines
indicated by Mr. Schiller.—EDITOR.]
NOTE ON A CASE IN THE JOURNAL FOE MAECH.
THE EDITOR much regrets that a comment made on one of the
" Cases " printed in the March Journal was expressed in terms which
require some qualification. With regard to a prophecy made by Mme.
Zuleika to a lady visiting her, and called in the narrative " Veritas,"
it was said (p. 40), "It was not unlikely . . . that Mme. Zuleika
should imagine that the husband of ' Veritas ' was going to South
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1901.
Africa." It would have been better to say, "It was not highly
improbable that Mme. Zuleika should imagine that a relative or friend
of ' Veritas' . . ." To justify the remark, even in this modified form,
it must be borne in mind that the most common reason for visiting
mediums probably is that the visitor is in some kind of trouble at the
time. (Thus, in this case, " Veritas " thought it probable—she tells us
—that her husband was going to South Africa, which would naturally
have caused her some anxiety, though it was not this that consciously
led to her visit.) In February, 1900, there were probably in England
more persons in anxiety on account of friends or relatives going out to
the war than on account of any other single cause. Consequently no
great weight must be attached to the mere fact that Mme. Zuleika
associated Mrs. V.'s visit with a present or future interest in the fate
of a relative at or going to the war. We learnt, in fact, incidentally
a few days ago that during the past year Mme. Zuleika had been
consulted by a very large number of persons about relatives and
friends at the war.
The intention, however, of the whole editorial paragraph (pp. 40-41)
was to weigh fairly the objections that might be urged against the
genuinely premonitory character of Mme. Zuleika's statements; the
general conclusion being that, though each statement considered alone
might be regarded as a mere guess, the cumulative force of the number
of details corresponding to future events told strongly against such a
view of all the statements put together.
CASES.
P. 272.
LA TOUR DB PEILZ, VAUD, SWITZERLAND,
14th March, 1901.
Here is a case of premonitory dream. I should preface that my eldest
daughter has been living with her husband in the Spelonken (Transvaal) for
nearly fifteen years. Since the beginning of the war I have had no news
from her, except a postcard written in January 1900. I should also state
that Mrs. Xavoz, an old friend of ours, has had frequent premonitory dreams
of the same kind. She tells me that every time she receives a letter from
her mother, who lives at La Plata, she sees in a dream, the night before,
the ship carrying her letter.
Now for the entries in my psychical journal :
10th March, 1901.—Mrs. Xavoz dreamt last night that I had received a
letter from Julia, of whom I have had no news for more than a year. She
saw the letter, which had a greenish envelope.
IZth March, 1901.—Received this morning a letter from a stranger, a
MAY, 1901.] Cases. 79
Dr. N. . . who writes from Pretoria, at Julia's request, to give me news of
her and her husband, both being well and in good health.
The envelope is white ; but on the red stamp, the words 1 Penny are
printed in large green letters.—Yours truly, AUG. GLARDON.
P.S.—Mrs. Xavoz has promised me to take note henceforth of all her
dreams, whenever she thinks ttiem premonitory.
L. 1125.
From Mr. J. F. Young, Llanelly.
THE following case is one of many similar impressions which Mr. J. F.
Young has had. The interest of this particular case consists in the
fact that Mr. Young at once acted upon the suggestion made to him
some time previously by Professor Barrett, and at the moment of its
occurrence wrote down the intimation with the date and hour.
NEW ROAD, LLANELLY, March 9/91.
The following account of a presentiment I recently had may be interesting
to you.
I was having my supper on the evening of February 15th last, when a
message came from a customer requiring my services. I sent back a reply
that I would come immediately I had my supper. It has always been a
strong point with me to keep my appointments, and therefore, having
hastily finished my meal, I was in the act of leaving the table when I
suddenly exclaimed, " There ! ! ! I have just had an intimation that Robert
is dead " : the Robert referred to is a Robert Hallett (a brother-in-law) who
was residing near my sister (Mrs. Ponting) at Sturminster Newton, Dorset.
He had been bed-ridden from paralysis for this last two years, but had
recently been much worse.
I at once entered full particulars in my diary. Date, Feb. 15. Message,
and time of message, 9.40 P.M. My sister-in-law was present the whole
time, and can vouch for the circumstances. On the 17th I received a post
card from my sister at Sturminster Newton, bearing date Feb. 16th, stating,
that " Robert had passed away, will write to-morrow."
In the meantime I had written to my sister Mrs. Ponting, mentioning my
presentiment, and our letters crossed, for the following morning a letter came
from her (I must mention here she had been assisting in nursing my
brother-in-law), saying, "I was glad you had a presentiment of poor Robert's
release, he passed away at 7.45 P.M., then Lottie [my niece Lottie Hallett]
.and I came home till 9.J/0, and that was the time you had the impression."
I wish to state two facts in connection with the foregoing case. (1) I was
not thinking of him at the time, my mind being engrossed in my appoint
ment, and the impression came so startlingly sudden, which caused me to
hastily say, There !!!... as before stated ; and (2) at the same moment,
I had a sense of a presence at my left, so much so, that I looked sharply
round, but found no one there.
This was my first and only impression during his long illness.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1901.
It will be observed that there is a difference of nearly two hours from the
time of his death to the premonition. Had his spirit only then recovered
consciousness, or was it a case of telepathy from my sister on her arrival
to the quiet of her home, when her thoughts roamed to me ? I may say
we are devotedly attached to each other, and her psychical faculties are
similar to my own. I have sent you post-card, envelope, and part of letter
as evidence, and Mrs. Ponting (my sister) will give you every facility to
corroborate what I have written. J. F. YOUNG.
The sister-in-law referred to, Miss E. Bennett, has read the above
statement and appends the following :
9th March, 1901.
The foregoing is quite correct. (Signed) E. BENNETT.
The note in the diary occurs amongst some memoranda on blank
sheets at the end of a small pocket diary. The previous entry is dated
February 12th, and the two following entries are dated, in that order,
February 28 and February 19. The entry contains, therefore, no
internal evidence of having been written at the time. It is as follows :
Feb. 15. As I rose from supper, a message came, as if by spirit influence,
to say, " Robert has passed away." Miss Bennett present. I said, " There, I
have just had an intimation Robert is dead. Time, 9.40 P.M. Noted full
particulars on my return : was called away. Had to see a customer on
business."
Mr. Young's original letter to his sister, Mrs. Ponting, has, un
fortunately, not been preserved. But we have seen a post-card from
Mrs. Ponting, dated February 1 6, containing the simple announcement :
" Passed away quietly last evening " ; also two letters in which Mrs.
Ponting refers to Mr. Young's letter. In the first, dated February 19th,
she writes :
I was glad to hear you had a presentiment of poor Robert's release. He
passed away at a quarter to eight. Then Lottie [Hallett] and I came home
till 9.40, so that was the time you had the impression.
In the second letter Mrs. Ponting announces her unsuccessful search
for the missing letter from Mr. Young. It had probably been, as she
explained, torn up for pipe-lights.
Miss Lottie Young, another niece, to whom Mr. Young related his
impression on the morning after its occurrence, sends us the following
corroboration :
7 NEW ROAD, LLANELLY, April 11.
Accidentally meeting my uncle, Mr. Young, on the morning of Feb. 16th,
he informed me that he had had an intimation the previous evening that
Mr. Hallett was dead. On Feb. 17th he showed me a post-card (received
that day), which stated that Mr. Hallett died on Feb. 15th, thus confirming
the intimation. L. YOUNG.
No. CLXXX.—VOL. X. JDNE, 1901.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE PAGE
New Members and Associate i, , - 81 Subconscious Reckoning of Time, - - 93
Meeting of the Council, - - 81 Psychic Research Company, - - 95
General Meeting, - 82 Revue des Etudes Psychiques, - 96
Correction, - 84 Mr. Myers' Book, - - 96
Address by the Council to th( Members, 85
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
EDWARDS, MRS. CHAS., 84 Elm Park Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W.
EVISON, MRS., Upwood House, near Huntingdon.
EVREINOFF, A., 27 Panteleimonskaia, St. Petersburg, Russia.
GEORGE, WILLIAM H., 57 Neville Street, Cardiff.
Lockhart, Lady, 187 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
PAETOW, F. C., 24 Queen Anne's Grove, Bedford Park, London, W.
RUSHTON, CHARLES H., 8 Billiter Square, London, B.C.
STRACHEY, CHARLES, Colonial Office, Downing Street, London, S.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ALDRICH, W. F., Rajah Lodge, Aldrich, Ala.
Brown, Miss Irma, 47 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.
CLEAVELAND, REV. WILLIS M., Plymouth, N.H.
HUNT, MRS. M. H., 125 Cumberland Avenue, Asheville, N.C.
KLOCH, PROF. JAMES E., Plymouth, N.H.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met at the Westminster Town Hall on May 17th. Dr. C.
Lloyd Tuckey was voted to the chair. There were also present, Miss
Alice Johnson, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore, Mrs. H.
Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Sir Augustus K. Stephenson, Col. Le
M. Taylor, Mrs. Verrall, and Dr. A. Wallace.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1901.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as correct.
One new Member and seven new Associates were elected. The
election of one new Member and four new Associates of the American
Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given above.
Some presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was accorded to the donors.
Several matters in relation to the work of the Society in the future
were discussed.
The next meeting of the Council will be held on Friday, June 14th,
at 3 P.M., at the Westminster Town Hall, previous to the General
Meeting at 4 P.M. on that day.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 1 1 3th meeting of the Society was held in the Westminster Town
Hall, on Friday, 17th May, at 8.30 P.M.—Mr. FRANK PODMORE in the
chair.
Dr. ABRAHAM WALLACE read a paper entitled "Difficulties and
Disappointments in the Practical Application of Psychical Research—
The case of the Missing Stockbroker, Mr. Percy L. Foxwell."
Dr. WALLACE began by stating that the elucidation of this mysterious
case had been unfortunately interrupted, but he considered that some
of the incidents ought to be communicated to the Society. He
deprecated the attitude of some scientific leaders to psychic investiga
tion, but recognized the necessity for special qualifications in those who
undertook such investigations. As the basis and justification for his
action in the Foxwell case, he read from his note-book three illustrative
cases, one in which spontaneous telepathic communications were
manifested between two persons at a distance of seventy-one miles, the
evidence being vouched for by himself and Mr. Colin E. Campbell,
a member of the Society, and by Mrs. Albert Barker and her niece.
The second case was one of retrocognition in which exact details
were given ; and the third was an example of prevision in which an
accident to an express train and several details of injuries to passengers,
with the names of three of the dead, were described seven days previous
to the occurrence.
Dr. WALLACE then related in detail the facts connected with the
disappearance of Mr. Foxwell, on 20th December last, as reported in
the newspapers. On the evening of 28th December, a clairvoyant,
Mr. Von Bourg, stated that he had "a strong impression that the
JUNE, 1901.] General Meeting. 83
gentleman who has disappeared from Thames Ditton has met with
foul play, although they may make it appear to be a case of suicide."
On the 4th January he confirmed this impression, and gave some
clairvoyant descriptions and predictions. He said that his gold watch
and valuables were still on Mr. Foxwell's body, and that the body
would be found in the Thames within from 6 to 8 weeks, floating
with its face downwards opposite a water tower and works, lower down
the river than Thames Ditton. Dr. Wallace transcribed these and
other details on a couple of post-cards, one to himself, bearing the post
mark, London, W., 3.15 A.M., Jan. 5, 1901, and the other to the
Assistant-Secretary, Mr. Bennett, bearing the post-mark of the morning
of January 7th. By a strange coincidence, the wife of the missing man
consulted Mr. Von Bourg on 5th January, and saw in his crystal a
river scene with a human body therein, and also a water tower and
.works. The medium asserted that this was her husband's body, and
that it would be found in such circumstances. This was actually veri
fied in every detail on the 31st January, 26 days afterwards. The
.details of two subsequent visits to the house of Mrs. Foxwell of a group
of individuals, possessing psychic powers in various degrees, were given,
and communications purporting to come from Mr. Foxwell were related.
On 30th January, following the indications given, the party went in
search of the missing body, but owing to darkness had to desist. The
next day the body was found floating in the river Thames as described
a short way below the point where the search terminated.
MR. PODMORE congratulated Dr. Wallace on the courage he had
shewn in taking up an enquiry of this kind, and on his perseverance in
carrying it through. But the results of the enquiry were, as Dr.
Wallace had himself admitted, somewhat inconclusive. The clairvoy
ants consulted in the case, as was the wont of clairvoyants, had poured
out copious information on the scenery, the personal appearance of the
dead man, and other matters on which clairvoyance was not needed to
give correct information, but had not been conspicuously successful in
their attempts to elucidate what was really unknown. The two main
statements, the points on which all the clairvoyants consulted had found
themselves in agreement, were that Mr. Foxwell had been murdered,
and that the body had been thrown into the creek at a particular
point. Neither of these statements had been proved correct. The body
.was found in the river, and there was no evidence that it had ever
been in the creek ; and the post-mortem examination gave no countenance
to the theory of violence.
MR. PODMORE then passed on to consider the other illustrations of
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1901.
supposed supernormal faculty adduced by Dr. Wallace. Professor
Sidgwick had, he pointed out, held up to us as an ideal the presentation
of evidence in such a form that the alternative to accepting the facts
alleged would be to accuse the witness of lying or of imbecility. The
evidence brought forward by Dr. Wallace, in particular for the prophecy
of the railway accident, seemed almost to fulfil this requirement. The
evidence consisted of a shorthand note of the vision, written by Dr.
Wallace himself, and dated 5 days before the fulfilment. The record
itself was so detailed as entirely to preclude explanation by chance-
coincidence. If the note was written on the day on which it purported
to have been written, the conclusion—that prevision of the future was
possible—could hardly be resisted.
But if Dr. Wallace was mistaken, and the written account was dated
incorrectly, we were confronted with difficulties of another kind, in
themselves sufficiently serious.
Apart from & priori objections, the almost complete absence of trust
worthy evidence for prevision forbade us to accept the first alternative ;
and, on the whole, suspension of judgment in this particular case
seemed the wisest course.
MR. ROBERT KING, one of Dr. Wallace's colleagues in the investi
gation, then gave some account of visions seen by himself in connection
with the case. He concluded by urging the importance of serious and
systematic investigation of the subject.
Mr. PiDDlNGTON asked whether a description of Mr. Foxwell's
personal appearance and of the trinkets worn on his watch-chain had
appeared in notices circulated by the police, or in the newspapers.
DR. WALLACE was unable to answer the question.
DR. WALLACE, in replying to the criticisms offered, said that he had
carefully avoided supporting or denying the clairvoyant theory of foul
play, and had related the incidents of the investigation to the Society
in order that each member might form his own deductions.
Dr. Wallace hinted the possibility of a continuance of his investi
gation regarding the Foxwell case, owing to the receipt of some letters
and documents which he proposed to submit to psychometric ex
periment.
CORRECTION.
Mr. Solovovo asks us to correct a phrase in his account of " Some
Automatic Messages," printed in the Journal for May. On p. 73, line
27, the words " nor does it agree " should have been " nor do they
agree."
JUNE, 1901.] Address and Appeal to the Members. 85
ADDRESS BY THE COUNCIL TO THE MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH, AND APPEAL FOR THEIR SUPPORT
BOTH IN WORK AND IN MONEY.
THE recent death of the President, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, has led to
some anxiety as to the future of the Society, and the Council desire
to inform the members generally of the action taken and the plans
formed in consequence and to appeal for their assistance to carry on
with undiminished energy the work of psychical research.
The Council have been informed that some members of the Society
.have expressed a desire that a permanent memorial to Mr. Myers
should be founded ; but as it is known that he would have deprecated
the collection of funds for any personal memorial to himself, they are
not putting the present appeal forward in this form. It is clear,
however, that in no way can his memory be more effectively perpetu
ated than by carrying on the work which owed so much to his self-
sacrificing zeal and devotion, to which he gave so large a part of his
life and energy and which he regarded as of transcendent importance ;
and the Council hope that those who desire to commemorate him will
feel that they have an opportunity of doing so in the way that would
have pleased him best by enabling the Society, which he did so much
to foster and inspire, to carry on his work.
The first step taken by the Council after the death of Mr. Myers was
to approach Lord Rayleigh, as one of the most distinguished living men
of science in this or any other country, and ask him to accept the post
of President. The memorial addressed to him, with the names of
signatories, will be found in the Journal for April, 1901.
Lord Rayleigh took some days to consider the matter; but, as it
was known that he had already declined a most important office by
reason of press of scientific and other work, the Council could not
be very sanguine of his acceptance. It was encouraging, however,
to find from his reply to the memorial that it was through no lack of
sympathy with our aims and methods that he felt constrained to
decline the position. His reply was printed in the Journal for April,
p. 60.
Under these circumstances, the Council invited Dr. Oliver Lodge
to undertake the office of President for the current year, and he
accepted.
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNB, 1901.
But it must be apparent to all that the loss of the active and devoted
services of F. W. H. Myers calls for special efforts from others, and it
is desirable to consider carefully what can now be done to secure the
energetic continuance of the work of the Society.
I.
The need for more workers.
First, the Council desire to appeal to the members in general for
active aid and services. In the earlier stages of any scientific enquiry,
whilst the preliminary survey is still incomplete, and the aims and
methods of the investigation still mainly tentative, any intelligent and
conscientious person can give valuable help by carefully observing and
recording facts and experiences, and can even undertake actual ex
perimental work in several directions. The greater part of what has,
already been done in psychical research would, in fact, have been
impossible without the co-operation of a large number of individuals in
giving information and helping to furnish corroborative testimony.
All such co-operation the Council would welcome. Members becom
ing aware of any series of phenomena,—whether spiritistic, telepathic,
etc.,—going on in a private circle, are requested (if the persons,
concerned have no objection) to inform the Hon. Secretary of them,
and to endeavour to obtain opportunities for their investigation by
the "Committee for experiments."
The Council would also ask members themselves to complete as far as
possible the evidence for any recent psychical occurrence or pheno
menon which they may hear of, with a view to sending to the Secretary
not merely unsupported narratives, but accounts accompanied by
whatever confirmatory documents or statements may be obtainable.
(Many specimens of the kinds of corroborative evidence required
are to be found among the numerous " cases " printed in the Journal.)
In the process of verification, flaws may often be discovered, and the
original narrative may sometimes be found valueless as evidence, after
much trouble has been expended on it. Such occasional disappoint
ments must, of course, be expected. They prove, in fact,—as nothing
else could do,—the necessity for investigation.
Further, those who collect information must not conclude that it is
regarded as valueless if it does not soon appear in print in the Journal
or elsewhere. Not only may it be necessary to delay the appearance
of cases for want of space or because further corroboration is desirable,
but the final selection of what to print must be left in the hands of the
JUNE, 1901.] Address and Appeal to the Members. 87
Council, or of the officials to whom they may delegate this work.
Narratives that are not selected for printing may often be useful as
material to some one who is making a special study of some branch of
the subject.
It is to be remembered that though it is always preferable to publish
the names of witnesses, as evidence of their good faith, any request not
to publish names will be carefully attended to, so that informants need
not be deterred from relating experiences by any fear of publicity.
There is also a tendency to regard certain psychical experiences as
peculiarly sacred and personal ; but hesitating informants may be
reminded that, in addition to the personal aspect, their experiences,
if genuine, are scientific facts also, and a service may be done to
science by the sacrifice of allowing them to be fully and accurately
recorded.
Medical men, who sometimes hare opportunities of observing unusual
psychical phenomena in connection with Hypnotism or otherwise,
might do useful service by reporting them.
A more complete description of the kinds of work that could be
undertaken by members is given in the last part of this circular; where
also, under the headings Literature, references are given to a few papers
that may be specially useful to students.
II.
The need for more money.
In addition to more general co-operation on the part of members,
the Council think that further pecuniary help is needed, if the work
achieved by Gurney, Sidgwick, and Myers (to mention only those who
have passed away) is to be continued on anything like the same scale,
since there is much more than can be adequately dealt with by the
present officials.
To meet this want, it has been suggested that, as a beginning, a
thoroughly competent paid Organizing Secretary should be appointed,
who would be expected to devote all his time to the work. The salary
attached to the post should be sufficient to attract a man of liberal
education and good abilities.
It is also felt that the present rooms of the Society are not sufficiently
accessible to members for consultation or intercourse, and that it would
be an advantage to take larger and more convenient offices, where
small meetings for informal discussion and experiments might be held,
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1901.
and to which members might arrange to bring subjects having any
special psychic powers, who were willing to submit themselves to
investigation.
It may doubtless have been thought that the Society had as much
money as it needed ; but, apart from private munificence, this is un
likely ever to be the case. Hitherto some of the persons who have
done the greater part of the work have also given much money, and
now that important private sources of funds have been cut off, it
becomes necessary to appeal to the general body of members for
help.
The Council trust that the intimation that pecuniary help is
urgently required will be sufficient to evoke it, especially at the present
juncture. They have no doubt that the work might expand greatly if
further funds were forthcoming, and that the development of the
subject is hampered by lack of them ; for with funds they might be
able to attract some trained observers to give to this subject the time
and attention that are, comparatively speaking, so abundantly lavished
on other sciences. The amateur, as hinted above, can do one indis
pensable part of the work, namely, the collection of material ; but to
make the best use of the material, long training and wide experience
and study of many branches of the subject are necessary. Sooner or
later, the professional element must enter into this, as into other
departments of science, and the formation of an adequate endow
ment should be ultimately aimed at.
But without looking so far ahead, it is estimated that to carry out
fully the proposals above mentioned, an additional yearly income of
at least £500 would be required. This sum might be raised in various
ways :
(1) By Associates (who pay an annual subscription of one guinea)
becoming Members (who pay an annual subscription of two guineas and
acquire certain privileges thereby).
(2) By extra voluntary annual subscriptions.
(3) By donations.
(4) By members securing the adhesion of new members.
(5) By legacy (to secure the future of the Society).
Contributions may be sent to the Hon. Treasurer, H. ARTHUR
SMITH, ESQ., 7, Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
The question of investment of the sums received will depend on the
amount of response to this appeal.
.JUNE, 1901.] Address and Appeal to the Members. 89
III.
Types of phenomena about which further information is desired.
These may be roughly classified under the following heads :
(a) Automatic phenomena,—e.g. crystal vision and automatic writing.
Many persons after a little practice find that they can see in polished
surfaces pictures unconnected with the ideas consciously present to
them at the moment. Similarly, many persons are able to write
coherently (e.g. with a planchette, or simply by holding a pencil on a
piece of paper while attending to something else), remaining uncon
scious meanwhile of what they are writing. The majority of such
pictures or writings possess no more—and no less—significance than
ordinary dreams;—they merely represent ideas in the automatist's
subliminal consciousness, of which his supraliminal self might have
remained unaware but for this means of bringing them to the
surface.
Their interest increases when—as sometimes happens—they can be
definitely recognised as revived memories of actual events which had
been completely forgotten. This, also, sometimes happens in dreams.
Again, they may occasionally resemble the most interesting and
rarest type of dreams, in conveying to the automatist information
unknown to him by normal means.
To prove conclusively that such information has really been conveyed,
it is of course necessary that the experience should have been fully
described in writing before any of the persons concerned knew whether
it corresponded to actual facts or not ; and the original written account
should be preserved. This is necessary as evidence not so much of the
witness's good faith as of the accuracy of his memory, which may other
wise be influenced by his subsequent knowledge of the event.
In carrying out the experiments, therefore, a complete dated record
of all of them should be made at the time and kept for future
reference. We can then see what proportion of them correspond with
unknown events (and thereby test whether there is a greater amount
of correspondence than can be attributed to chance), and also what
evidence exists for the correspondence.
Literature.1—"The Subliminal Consciousness: Sensory Automatism
and induced Hallucinations," by F. W. H. Myers (Proceedings S.P.R.,
1 Under the heading Literature, only some of the most important papers on each
subject are mentioned. No attempt is made to give a complete list of all articles
in the Proceedings bearing on it.
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1901.
Vol. VIII., pp. 436-535). "The Subliminal Consciousness: Motor
Automatism," by F. W. H. Myers (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. IX., pp.
26-128).
(b) Experimental Telepathy. Besides the experiments just mentioned,
in which telepathic action is occasionally manifested, we may attempt
the method (inaugurated by the researches of Professor Barrett) of
direct thought-transference of simple and definite ideas between
persons in a normal waking condition,—the "agent" fixing his
attention on some object or idea and endeavouring to make the
" percipient " think of it, or see it in a crystal, or write it automatically
(for it is sometimes found that these automatic methods are an aid to
success).
It must not be forgotten that much still remains to be done in order
to establish even telepathy, beyond the possibility of dispute or cavil,
among the facts universally recognised by science.
For the completest possible proof of telepathic phenomena, it is
highly important that experimental evidence should be increased, since it
is only through well carried-out and varied experiments that we can
hope to arrive at the laws which govern these phenomena. Contact
between agent and percipient should be avoided, and the experiments,
which are of most value are those with agent and percipient at a
considerable distance from one another, of which so far we have only
a small number of cases.
Literature.—Mr. M. Guthrie's "Experiments in Thought-transference "
(Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., pp. 24-42). The articles of Professor and
Mrs. H. Sidgwick on their " Experiments in Thought-transference "
(Proceedings S.P.R, Vol. VI., pp. 128-170; and Vol. VIII., pp. 536-
596).
(c) It is also very important that cases of spontaneous telepathy should
be recorded, communicated and enquired into as soon as possible after
they occur. Typical instances are phantasms or dreams coinciding
with deaths, or other important or well-defined events. The value
of the evidence for these cases depends mainly on the experience
having been recorded in writing shortly after its occurrence ; and
though evidence of the best quality is needed as much as it ever was,
we seem now to have arrived at the point where the further accumu
lation of remote or second-hand evidence is useless.
Contemporaneous records are of course by far the most valuable ;
but it is also worth while to have records made not more than, say,
two or three years after the occurrence. Records of telepathic or pre
monitory dreams are valuable only when the dream was noted or
JUNE, 1901.] Address and Appeal to the Members. 91
described before the event to which it was supposed to correspond was
known.1
Literature.—"Phantasms of the Living." By E. Gurney, F. W. H.
Myers, and F. Podmore. (2 Vols. Trubner & Co., London, 1886.)
" Apparitions and Thought-transference." By Frank Podmore. (In
the " Contemporary Science Series." Walter Scott, London, 1894.)
(d) Another important type is that of cases pointing to the
continued existence of individuals after death, and to the possibility of
receiving communications from them;—e.g. "veridical" phantasms of
the dead (those which in some way afford information of facts
unknown to the percipient), or communications purporting to come
from deceased persons through such means as automatic writing or
trance utterance, and likewise veridical in that they convey true infor
mation unknown to the automatic writer or speaker. (The study of
automatism shows us that these phenomena cannot be taken as
evidence of the agency of deceased persons unless they at least
include some information of this kind.)
Literature.—" Phantasms of the Dead," by Mrs. H. Sidgwick (Pro
ceedings S.P.R., Vol. III., pp. 69-150). "On recognised apparitions
occurring more than a year after death," by F. W. H. Myers (Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. VI, pp. 13-65). "Phantasms of the Dead from another
point of view," by F. Podmore ; and " A defence of Phantasms of the
Dead," by F. W. H. Myers (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VI., pp. 229-357).
" On indications of continued terrene knowledge on the part ofphantasms
of the dead," by F. W. H. Myers (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VIII,
pp. 170-252). The most important records of trance-utterances so far
published are those of Mrs. Piper (see Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VI.,
pp. 436-660 ; Vol. VIII., pp. 1-167 ; and Vol. XIII., pp. 284-582).
(e) Further investigation is also required in the case of the so-called
" physical phenomena " of Spiritualism,—that is, effects alleged to be
produced on matter, such as the movements of objects without contact,
which suggest some unknown physical force. Cases of stone-throwing,
bell-ringing, and movements of furniture, etc. (" Poltergeists "), in a
particular house, or in the neighbourhood of a particular person,
seem to belong to this category.
1 The reasons for requiring a higher standard of evidence in the case of dreams
than of apparitions seen in a waking state are ( 1 ) that there is a much greater
scope for the occurrence of chance coincidences with dreams than with waking
hallucinations, because the former occur so much more frequently than the latter,
and (2) that dreams do not, as hallucinations do, take their place in the series of
external events, and the remembrance of them is therefore vaguer, while it is
more difficult to assign them to any particular date.
$2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1901.
It is hardly necessary to remark that many,—perhaps most,—of the
.alleged physical phenomena of Spiritualism are produced fraudulently.
But it is sometimes not so fully realised that their investigation presents
special difficulties and requires perhaps a more thorough and careful
training than any other branch of psychical research. (For a discussion
of the kinds of error specially incidental to the subject, see " Results
.of a Personal Investigation into the 'Physical Phenomena' of
Spiritualism," by Mrs. H. Sidgwick (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. IV.,
,pp. 45-74), and "The possibilities of mal-observation and lapse of
memory from a practical point of view," by R. Hodgson and S. J.
Davey, Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. IV., pp. 381-495.) Yet, if these
phenomena are ever genuine, they are clearly of great importance from
a scientific point of view, and detailed contemporaneous reports of any
«uch occurring with non-professional mediums would be welcomed. It is
.essential that the reports should be made either at the time or im
mediately afterwards, and that the circumstances and conditions should
fee described as fully as possible.
Accounts of phenomena of the kinds mentioned above, or of others
affording evidence on any of the subjects investigated by the Society,
will be gladly received by the Hon. Secretary, J. G. Piddington, Esq.,
87 Sloane Street, London, S.W.
Signed on behalf of the Council,
OLIVER LODGE, President.
May, 1901.
The following Contributions towards the funds of the Society have
already been received or promised :—
Subscriptions. Donations.
from £ s. D. £ s. D.
Mr. W. W. Baggally, --. - 220 —
Dr. Walter Leaf, 10 0 0 —
Dr. O. J. Lodge, F.R.S., - 330
Mrs. F. W. H. Myers, 20 0 0 —
Mr. J. G. Piddington, 20 0 0 —
Mr. F. Podmore, ----- 220 —
Mr. F.'C. S. Schiller, - .-- — 10 0 0
Mrs. H. Sidgwick, 20 0 0 —
Sir A. K. Stephenson, K.C.B., K.C., - 220 550
Lieut. -Col. G. L. Le M. Taylor, - - — 10 0 0
Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, - — 220
Mrs. A. W. Verrall, - ... — 10 0 0
£76 60 £40 10 0
JUNB, 1901.] Subconscious Reckoning of Time. 93
SUBCONSCIOUS BECKONING OF TIME.
WE have received the following account of some recent experiments
in the subconscious reckoning of time from the Rev. A. Glardon,
whose name will be familiar to readers of the Journal in connection
with his experiments in telepathy at a distance :
LA TOUR DE PEILZ, 10th May, 1901.
As I had been advised by our late much-regretted friend, F. Myers,.
I have made a few experiments on the time-calculating power of my
subliminal self, and having just achieved a series of forty trials I think
it advisable to send you now at once the result, because it may
encourage other members of the S.P.R. to study themselves this
interesting phenomenon. By and bye I shall begin a new series of
experiments on the same subject.
Let me first say that I have always been a good sleeper, and so bent
upon sleeping that I have never been able to awake of my own accord
at a given time. I have accordingly always used an alarum or got
myself called by a servant.
I used to greatly envy those people who can wake themselves up at
any time previously fixed upon ; and often have I tried when going to
bed to fix upon a time for rising in the morning, for instance when I
had to take an early train or to start early in the morning for an
excursion into the mountains ; but invariably with this result, that I
overslept myself. Supposing I had to get up at five, I would wake up
at two o'clock, go to sleep again, wake up again say at half-past three
or four, remain some time in a state of great wakefulness, then finally
set down to sleep at half-past four, and remain sleeping till seven or
eight.
My plan was to tell myself when going to bed: "I must get up
to-morrow, say at five," and try to go to sleep with my mind fixed on
that hour of five.
Now, thinking over this lately, the thought came to me that my
way of putting the question was wrong, because during my sleep the
subliminal self had no means of ascertaining the hour, having no clock
to consult.
The only thing it could be asked to do was to take an account of
the passing time. Going to sleep at eleven at night, for instance, it
was of no use saying that I would wish to get up at five in the morning.
What is five o'clock for the subliminal ? It does not represent anything.
Whereas if I reason in this way : "I go to sleep at eleven; I want to.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Rese irch. [JUNE, 1901.
get up at five, that is to say, in six hours' time," it may afford the
subliminal one an opportunity of numbering the time ; all the better if,
instead of speaking of hours, I speak of minutes, and say 360 minutes
instead of six hours.
I immediately began to make trials on that plan, and, to my at first
immense astonishment, with a great amount of success.
The first time, going to bed at eleven, I resolved upon awakening after
seventy-five minutes, that is to say, at 1.15,1 and I awoke with a start
to find that the hands of my watch pointed at 1.15.1
The second time I appointed in the same way my subliminal watch
man to wake me up after 300 minutes ; that is to say, at four o'clock,
and I woke up at four precisely.
I made forty trials, not always with the same luck, but still with
a fair amount of success, and I shall give you now the results, sending
you at the same time my waking up time-table, too long to be printed
in the Journal, but which may interest you. You will see in it that
after the first trials I bethought myself of noting down the state
•of my pulse, thinking that perhaps the pulsations of the heart were
used by my inward watcher for the end of numbering the time. I
found, and you will see, that it was not the case, as Curing the few
days in which I had influenza and a little fever, although my pulse
was higher, the watcher did not wake me up any sooner.
I took about two months and a half to make the forty trials, in
•order to leave a space between them and to prevent my bodily system
falling into a habit of awaking at a given time. I also did vary
.almost each time the number of minutes allowed for sleeping, not so
much by getting up sooner in the morning as by going to bed at
irregular hours.
Now for the results of the forty trials :
Seven times I woke up at the appointed minute.
Twenty-four times a little in advance.
Nine times a little later.
Finally, the most important of all was that the average difference in
•the forty trials has been only of sixteen and a-half minutes. And you
will notice on my time-table that four times having taken an opiate
before sleep on account of a very troublesome cough did not apparently
effect the result.
What is the process of the mind by which the lapse of time is taken
'[1.15 is the time given in Mr. Glardon's letter. The time required by the
experiment is, of course, 0.15 A.M. Probably the 1.15 is a clerical error for
112.15.—Editor.}
JUNE, 1901.] Subconscious Reckoning of Time. 95
account of during sleep ? This is still to me a mystery, to be inves
tigated into by and bye. If the action of the heart has nothing to do
with it, is it to be accounted for by an observation of the rhythm of
breathing 1 Or what ? Could any one of our friends throw light on
the subject t It would be worth while trying to ascertain what may
be the operations of the mind during sleep ; and, at any rate, this at
least seems above all doubt to me, that a something or somebody
keeps watching and counting in my brain while I am sleeping soundly
and dreamlessly. And this also I may as well note down, that during
the feverish sleep caused by influenza, although I did dream a good
.deal, the result of my experiments were the same.
AUG. GLARDON.
EXPERIMENTS ON THE SUPPOSED POWER
DURING SLEEP.
OF MEASURING TIME
Time fixed upon
for awaking.
Time
of awaking.
Time fixed upon Time
for awaking of awaking
H.M. H.M. H.M. H.M.
1.15 a.m. 1.15 a.m. 4.15 Pulse 63 4
4 4 6.20 „ 62 6.18
6.15 5.45 6.30 „ 72 5.55
1.10 1.20 6.30 „ 64 6.15
7 7.10 5.45 ,, 66 5.34
4 4.2 7 „ 70 6.35
7.10 6.50 6.30 „ 63 6.13
1.45 3 5.45 ,, 68 5.30
7 6.48 6.30 -, 74 6.05
12.30 12.30 6.30 ,, 72 6.25
.6.45 6.35 7.15 ,, 82Influenza6.30
6.45 6.45 6.55 „ SOOpiate 6.55
'7.15 6.35 6.45 „ 74 6.55
6.15 6.15 6.30 ,, 74Opiate 6.05
.6.45 6.50 7.15 „ 72 Opiate 6
.6.55 6.40 7.30 „ 70 7.05
6.45 Pulse 70 6.30 5.35 „ 76 5.35
.6.45 „ 64 6.35 6.15 6.10
.6.30 „ 66 6.5 5.45 Pulse 78 Opiate 5.58
.6.30 „ 64 6.13 2.35 2.47
TOUR DE PEILZ, March, April and May, 1901.
PSYCHIC RESEARCH COMPANY.
As some misconception has already arisen it seems worth while to
.state that an American Society under the above title, with a branch
office in London, which advertises literature on " practical occultism,"
has no connection with the Society for Psychical Research.
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1901.
REVUE DES ETUDES PSYCHIQUES.
As our readers will have seen from the advertisement at the foot of
page 3 of the cover, the monthly journal hitherto published in Italian.
under the title Rivista di Sludi Psichichi, now appears in French as the
Revue den Eludes Psychiques. The first number, consisting of 96 pages,
comprises the issues for January, February, and March of the present
year. It contains an introduction by the editor, M. Cesar de Vesme ;
an article on paramnesia and premonitory dreams, by E. Bozzano ; an
account of a Poltergeist case at Turin, by Dr. L. Silva ; and other
articles giving the history of recent cases, reviews of the movement
abroad, etc. The number also includes a brief notice of Mr. F. W. H.
Myers, with a portrait, and a translation of Mr. Myers' own memoir of
Professor Sidgwick. The next number, it is announced, will contain
a portrait of Professor Lodge.
The annual subscription to the Revue is 8 francs ; by special arrange
ment, however, with the publishers, Members and Associates of the
Society can obtain it through the Assistant Secretary for 3s. a year.
MR. MYERS' BOOK.
Messrs. Longmans & Co. have now in preparation the book upon
which Mr. F. W. H. Myers had been working for some years before his
death. The book, which is called HUMAN PERSONALITY AND
ITS SURVIVAL OF BODILY DEATH, will be in two volumes. It,
aims at presenting in continuous form the bulk of the evidence,
experimental and otherwise, which points to human faculty operating
below the threshold of ordinary consciousness during the life of earth,
and to human faculty continuing to operate after the body's decay.
Among the subjects treated of in this book are Alternating Per
sonalities, Hysteria, Genius, Sleep, Dreams, Hypnotism, Apparitions,
Crystal-Gazing, Automatic Writing, Trance, Possession, Ecstasy, Life
after Death. The Author's object was to bring within the purview of
Experimental Psychology many topics as yet unfamiliar to science,
but nevertheless ripe, as he believed, for scientific experiment and
discussion.
It is hoped that the book will appear in the early autumn. The
proofs of the greater part of it had been revised by the Author, and
it will be brought out under the editorship of Dr. Richard Hodgson,
and Miss Alice Johnson.
No. CLXXXL—VOL. X. JULY, 1901.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
New Members and Associates, - - 97
Meeting of the Council, 98
General Meeting, 98
An alleged Case of Elongation, - . 104
CONTENTS.
PAGE PAGK
American Branch of the Society for
Psychical Research, ... - 109
Prof. Hyslop's Report on Mrs. Piper, - 111
Subscriptions and Donations towards
the Funds of the Society, - - 112
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
CONWAY, LADY, Red House, Hornton Street, Kensington, W.
Hume, Mrs. H. S., 5 The Cloisters, Gordon Square, London, W.C.
Lund, Mrs., 5 Ashburn Place, Cromwell Road, London, S.W.
MAZUCHELLI, MRS., Allt-y-g6g, Nantgaredig, Carmarthenshire.
TENNANT, MRS. C. C., 5 Sloane Court, Lower Sloane St., London, S.W.
Waterhouse, Laurence M., A.M.Inst.C.E. and M.Soc.I.R, 27 The
Avenue Elmers, Surbiton, Surrey.
WILSON, MRS. C. STUART, Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
AUSTEN, PETER T., Ph.D., St. John's Place, Brooklyn, New York.
FLOWER, SYDNEY, 30-31 The Auditorium, Chicago, 111.
HUNTER, ARTHUR, N.Y. Life Insurance Co., 346 Broadway, New
York, N.Y.
JAMIESON, MRS. EGBERT, 38 Stratford Place, Chicago, 111.
NICKERSON, MRS. R. C., 259 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y.
[May to Oct.] Brewster, Mass.
PALMER, GEORGE HOWARD, M.D., 92 Hancock Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
PERRY, RALPH B., Ph.D., 20 Franklin Street, Northampton, Mass.
WASHBURN, MRS. W. N., 3 Franklin Street, Greenfield, Mass.
[May to Oct.] Brewster, Mass.
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1901.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met at the Westminster Town Hall on June 14th, at 3 P.M.
Professor W. F. Barrett occupied the chair. There were also present,
Miss Alice Johnson, Dr. Walter Leaf, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F.
Podmore, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Sir Augustus K.
Stephenson, Col. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs. Verrall, and
Dr. A. Wallace.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read, and signed as correct.
Three new Members and four new Associates were elected. The
election of eight new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Names and addresses are given above.
The Council recorded with regret the death of the Duchess of Cleve
land, who for some years had been an Associate of the Society.
Two presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donor.
The Council resolved in regard to future General Meetings, that
there should not be one in July, and that arrangements for meetings in
the autumn should be announced in the Journal for October.
The Council having come to the conclusion that it would be desirable
in the interests of the Society to have more accessible and convenient
offices, the following were appointed a Committee in reference to the
subject : The Hon. Secretary, the Hon. Treasurer, Miss Alice Johnson,
Mr. F. Podmore, and Mr. Sydney C. Scott. The Committee were
instructed to keep in view the following considerations: that the
rooms should be in a central situation and quiet position, and that
they should, if possible, include one capable of accommodating a
social meeting of about fifty persons, and also space for the storage
of the Society's publications.
The Council decided that their next meeting should be in July, the
exact date to be fixed later by the Hon. Secretary.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 114th General Meeting of the Society was held in the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, June 14th, at 4 p.m.—DR. WALTER
LEAF in the chair.
The CHAIRMAN referred briefly to the address by the Council to the
members and associates of the Society, asking for their support both in
work and in money, which was printed in the Journal for June, and
JULY, 1901.] General Meeting. 99
afterwards circulated as a leaflet. Copies of this leaflet were to be
had from the Assistant Secretary at the close of the meeting, and the
Chairman suggested that those persons who were accustomed to attend
the meetings merely as visitors might be glad of an opportunity of
showing a practical interest in the work of the Society by subscribing
to its funds.
ME. FRANK PODMORE then read a paper by DR. R. HODGSON on
" Some Cases of Secondary Personality." Two cases were described in
the paper, but there was only time to read the account of one of them,
known as the " Watseka Wonder." This case had first appeared in the
Religio-Philosophical Journal for 1879, and was afterwards published in
pamphlet form by Dr. E. W. Stevens, who had investigated it at
the time. Dr. Hodgson afterwards obtained some further evidence in
personal interviews with some of the chief witnesses.
The case briefly is one of alleged " possession " or " spirit-control.''
The subject of the account, Mary Lurancy Vennum, a girl nearly four
teen years old, living at Watseka, Illinois, became apparently controlled
by the spirit of Mary Roff, a neighbour's daughter who had died at the
age of eighteen years and nine months, when Lurancy Vennum was a
child of less than ten months old. The most extraordinary feature
in the case was that the " control " by Mary Roff lasted almost
continuously for a period of nearly four months, from February 1st
till May 21st, 1878. The narrative by Dr. Stevens was prepared
shortly afterwards, and is given here in a much abridged form, with
some verbal alterations.
Mary Lurancy Vennum, the " Watseka Wonder," was born April 16th,
1864, in Milford township, about seven miles from Watseka, Illinois. After
various moves in the neighbourhood, the family moved into Watseka on
April 1st, 1871, locating about forty rods from the residence of A. B. Roff.
They remained at this place during the summer. The only acquaintance
ever had between the two families during the season was simply one brief
call of Mrs. Roff, for a few minutes, on Mrs. Vennum, which call was never
returned, and a formal speaking acquaintance between the two gentlemen.
Since 1871 the Vennum family have lived entirely away from the vicinity
of Mr. RofFs, and never nearer than now, on extreme opposite limits of
the city.
In July, 1877, Lurancy began to have fits or trances, several times
a day, up to January, 1878 ; she was generally believed to be insane, and
most friends of the family urged that she should be sent to an insane
asylum.
At this stage Mr. Asa B. Roff, whose daughter, Mary Roff, as we shall
see, had had periods of insanity, persuaded Mr. Vennum to allow him to
bring Dr. E. W. Stevens of Janesville, Wisconsin, to investigate the case.
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1901.
On the afternoon of January 31st, 1878, the two gentlemen repaired to Mr.
Vennum's residence, a little out of the city. Dr. Stevens, an entire stranger
to the family, was introduced by Mr. Roff at four o'clock p.m. ; no other
persons present but the family. Lurancy appeared to be in an insane
condition.
She described herself first as an old woman named Katrina Hogan, and
then as a young man named Willie Canning, and after some conversation
had another fit, which Dr. Stevens relieved by hypnotising her. She then
became calm, and said that she had been controlled by evil spirits. Dr.
Stevens suggested that she should try to have a better control, and
encouraged her to try and find one. She then mentioned the names of
several deceased persons, saying there was one who wanted to come, named
Mary Roff.
Mr. Roff being present, said : " That is my daughter ; Mary Roff is my
girl. Why, she has been in heaven twelve years. Yes, let her come, we'll
be glad to have her come." Lurancy gradually assented to this suggestion,
and Mr. Roff said to her, " Have your mother bring you to my house, and
Mary will be likely to come along, and a mutual benefit may be derived
from our former experience with Mary."
On the following morning, Friday, February 1st, Mr. Vennum called at
the office of Mr. Eoff and informed him that the girl claimed to be Mary
Roff, and wanted to go home. He said, " She seems like a child real home
sick, wanting to see her pa and ma and her brothers."
Mary Roff was born in Indiana in October, 1846. Her family, after
several changes of residence, made their permanent home in Watseka in
1859. From the age of six months, Mary had frequently had fits, which
gradually increased in violence. She also had periods of despondency, in
one of which, in July, 1864, she cut her arm with a knife until she fainted.
Five days of raving mania followed, after which she recognised no one, and
seemed to lose all her natural senses, but when blindfolded could read and
do everything as if she saw. After a few days she returned to her normal
condition, but the fits became still worse, and she died in one of them in
July, 1865.
After her supposed " control " of Lurancy began, the latter became mild,
docile, polite, and timid, knowing none of her own family, but constantly
pleading to go home.
About a week later, Mrs. A. B. Roff and her daughter, Mrs. Minerva
Alter, Mary's sister, hearing of the remarkable change, went to see the girl.
As they came in sight, far down the street, Mary, looking out of the window,
exclaimed exultingly, " There comes my ma and sister Nervie ! "—the name
by which Mary used to call Mrs. Alter in girlhood. As they came into the
house she caught them around their necks, wept and cried for joy, and
seemed so happy to meet them. From this time on she seemed more
homesick than before. At times she seemed almost frantic to go home.
On the llth day of February, 1878, they sent the girl to Mr. Eoff's, where
she met her " pa and ma," and each member of the family, with the most
JULY, 1901.] General Meeting. 101
gratifying expressions of love and affection, by -words and embraces. On
being asked how long she would stay, she said, " Uj« angels will let me stay
till some time in May " ; and she made it her home there till May 21st, three
months and ten days, a happy, contented daughter and sister in a borrowed
body.
The girl now iu her new home seemed perfectly happy-.and content,
knowing every person and everything that Mary knew wheu'iVilier original
body, twelve to twenty-five years ago, recognising and calling by name those
who -were friends and neighbours of the family from 1852 to "iWSS, .when
Mary died, calling attention to scores, yes, hundreds of incidents that'irjans-
pired during her natural life. During all the period of her sojourn at'Mr.
Roffs she had no knowledge of, and did not recognise any of Mr. Vennum's
family, their friends or neighbours, yet Mr. and Mrs. Vennum and their
children visited her and Mr. Roffs people, she being introduced to them as
to any strangers. After frequent visits, and hearing them often and favour
ably spoken of, she learned to love them as acquaintances, and visited them
with Mrs. Roff three times.
One evening, iu the latter part of March, Mr. Eoff was sitting in the
room waiting for tea, and reading the paper, Mary being out in the yard.
He asked Mrs. Roff if she could find a certain velvet head-dress that Mary used
to wear the last year before she died. If so, to lay it on the stand and say
nothing about it, to see if Mary would recognise it. Mrs. Koff readily found
and laid it on the stand. The girl soon came in, and immediately exclaimed
as she approached the stand, " Oh, there is my head-dress I wore when my
hair was short ! " She then asked, " Ma, where is my box of letters ?
Have you got them yet?" Mrs. Eoff replied, "Yes, Mary, I have some of
them." She at once got the box with many letters in it. As Mary began to
examine them she said, " Oh, ma, here is a collar I tatted ! Ma, why did
you not show to me my letters and things before ? " The collar had been
preserved among the relics of the lamented child as one of the beautiful
things her fingers had wrought before Lurancy was born ; and so Mary
continually recognised every little thing and remembered every little
incident of her girlhood.
In conversation with Dr. Stevens about her former life, she spoke of
cutting her arm as hereinbefore stated, and asked if he ever saw where she
did it. On receiving a negative answer, she proceeded to slip up her sleeve
as if to exhibit the scar, but suddenly arrested the movement, as if by a
sudden thought, and quickly said, " Oh, this is not the arm ; that one is in
the ground," and proceeded to tell where it was buried, and how she saw
it done, and who stood around, how they felt, etc., but she did not feel bad.
One afternoon Mary, with much concern and great anxiety, declared that
her brother Frank must be carefully watched the coming night, for he
would be taken very sick, and would die if not properly cared for. At the
time of this announcement he was in his usual health, and engaged with the
Roff Bros.' band of music up town. The same evening Dr. Stevens had
been in to see the family, and on leaving was to go directly to Mrs. Hawks,
102 Journal of Society -for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1901.
far off in the Old Town, and the family so understood it. But at about nine
and a half o'clock the sa»ae evening Dr. Stevens returned unannounced to
Mr. Marsh's, Mr. Roffs.rrext neighbour, for the night. At two o'clock in
the morning Frank was attacked with something like a spasm and congestive
chill, which almost destroyed his consciousness. Mary at once saw the
situation as .pfecKc'ted, and said, " Send to Mrs. Marsh's for Dr. Stevens."
"No, Dr. St»y*ns is at Old Town," said the family. "No," said Mary, "he
is at Mr. Marsh's ; go quick for him, pa." Mr. Roff called, and the doctor,
as Mary'said, was at Mr. Marsh's.
As'tTie time drew near for the restoration of Lurancy to her parents and
hoirie, Mary would sometimes seem to recede into the memory and manner
of Lurancy for a little time, yet not enough to lose her identity or permit
the manifestation of Lurancy's mind, but enough to show she was im
pressing her presence upon her own body. On May 7th, however, there was
a complete return of Lurancy for about five minutes. Again, on May 19th,
in the presence of Henry Vennum, Lurancy's brother, Mary left control for
a time, and Lurancy took full possession of her own body, recognising
Henry as her brother. The change of control occurred again when Mrs.
Vennum came to see her the same day.
Mary predicted that she should leave the body of Lurancy on May 21st,
at about eleven o'clock. She arranged that her sister, Mrs. Alter, should
come to the house to say good-bye to her, and that when Lurancy came at
eleven o'clock she should take her to Mr. RofFs office, and he would go to
Mr. Vennum's with her. There was some alternation of the control on the
way, but the final return of the normal Lurancy Vennum took place before
they reached Mr. RofFs office, and on arriving at her own home she recog
nised all the members of her own family as such, and was perfectly well and
happy in her own surroundings. A few days later, on meeting Dr. Stevens,
under whose care she had been at Mr. Roffs house, she had to be introduced to
him as an entire stranger, and treated him as such. The next day she came
to him spontaneously, saying Mary Roff had told her to come and meet him,
and had made her feel he had been a very kind friend to her, and she gave
him a long message purporting to be from Mary.
Ever since the " control " left her, Lurancy's health continued good and
there was no return of the fits. She continued to live with her parents until
January 1st, 1882, when she married a farmer, George Binning. The Roffs
saw her often both before and after her marriage, until she moved further west
in 1884, " and then," Mr. Roff says, " Mary would take control of Lurancy
just as she did during the time she was at our house in 1878. . . . Aside
from this, she had little opportunity of using her mediumship, her parents
being afraid to converse with her on the subject lest it should cause a return
of the ' spells ' (as they called them), . . . and her husband never having
made himself acquainted with spiritualism."
Dr. Hodgson visited Watseka in April, 1890, and cross-examined the
principal witnesses in the case who were still living in the neighbour
JULY, 1901.] General Meeting. 103
hood, including Mr. and Mrs. Eoff and their daughter, Mrs. Alter. He
writes : " I have no doubt that the incidents occurred substantially as
described in the narrative by Dr. Stevens, and in my view the only
other interpretation of the case—besides the spiritistic—that seems at
all plausible is that which has been put forward as the alternative to
the spiritistic theory to account for the trance-communications of Mrs.
Piper and similar cases, viz., secondary personality with supernormal
powers. It would be difficult to disprove this hypothesis in the case
of the Watseka Wonder, owing to the comparative meagreness of the
record and the probable abundance of ' suggestion ' in the environment,
and any conclusion that we may reach would probably be determined
largely by our convictions concerning other cases. My personal
opinion is that the 'Watseka Wonder' case belongs in the main
manifestations to the spiritistic category."
DR. LEAF observed that the case as read appeared to him to be one
of hysterical personation, presenting all the familiar classical symptoms
of that phenomenon. From a pathological point of view it was a
striking and instructive case ; but the question of special interest for
us was whether supernormal intelligence was shown by the " control "
or secondary personality. Of this he thought there was no evidence,
that is, there was nothing in the record which would lead us to
conclude that the " Mary Eoff" control had any knowledge of the
affairs of the Roff family and their friends beyond what she might have
picked up by normal means. Lurancy Vennum had lived during the
spring and summer of 1871 in Watseka "about forty rods from the
residence of " the Eoffs and since then in the suburbs of the same town,
though in a different neighbourhood, and would probably have heard
gossip about them. After she was taken into their house, there must
have been numerous opportunities of learning details connected with
the life of Mary Eoff. They kept relics of her from which hints could
be picked up ; they were very anxious that she should come, and
encouraged every supposed manifestation of her control. Lurancy had
constant talks with Mary's elder sister, Mrs. Alter, and the trivial
details that she showed knowledge of were just such as might have
been picked up in intimate family conversations. It was not likely
that we should hear of any of the failures or mistakes of the "control,''
which could easily be accounted for as the temporary return of
Lurancy. Her prophecy of the illness of Mary's brother was con
sidered remarkable ; but if a person were attacked at two o'clock in
the morning " with something like a spasm and congestive chill, which
almost destroyed his consciousness," it is probable that some pre
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1901.
monitory symptoms of it would be perceptible the afternoon before.
As to her knowledge that Dr. Stevens was that night lit their next
door neighbour's, and not, as they supposed, in another part of the
town, we are not told how much she could have known by normal
means of the doctor's whereabouts. It seemed clear, from the portion
of the paper read, that leading questions were asked and information
given to her innocently at every turn ; and the witnesses to the case
did not seem at all adequately to realise what precautions would have
been necessary to make the evidence for spirit return of value.
AN ALLEGED CASE OF ELONGATION.
One of the most striking manifestations in connection with the
mediumship of D. D. Home was the phenomenon of elongation. The
manifestation belonged to Home's later period, from 1867 to 1870.
Several competent witnesses, including H. D. Jencken, General Boldero,
Viscount Adare, and the Master of Lindsay, have recorded instances
which fell under their own observation. Lord Lindsay, in a paper
read before the Committee of the Dialectical Society in 1869, thus
describes the manifestation (Report on Spiritualism, of the Committee of
the London Dialectical Society, p. 207) :—
On another occasion I saw Mr. Home, in a trance, elongated eleven inches.
I measured him standing up against the wall, and marked the place ; not
being satisfied with that, I put him in the middle of the room and placed a
candle in front of him, so as to throw a shadow on the wall, which I also
marked. When he awoke I measured him again in his natural size, both
directly and by the shadow, and the results were equal. I can swear that
he was not off the ground or standing on tip-toe, as I had full view of his
feet, and, moreover, a gentleman present had one of his feet placed over
Home's insteps, 0:1e hand on his shoulder, and the other on his side where
the false ribs come near the hip-bone.
Later, in answer to a question whether the elongations were in
the trunk or legs of the subject, Lord Lindsay replied (Report,
pp. 2134):
The top of the hip-bone and the short ribs separate. In Home they are
unusually close together. There was no separation of the vertebrae of the
spine ; nor were the elongations at all like those resulting from expanding
the chest with air ; the shoulders did not move. Home looked as if he was
pulled up by the neck, the muscles seemed in a state of tension. He stood
firmly upright in the middle of the room, and, before the elongation com
menced, I placed my foot on his instep. I will swear he never moved his
heels from the ground. When Home was elongated against the wall, Lord
JULY, 1901.] An Alleged Case of Elongation. 105
Adare placed his foot on Home's instep, and I marked the place ou the wall.
I once saw him elongated horizontally on the ground. Lord Adare was
present. Home seemed to grow at both ends, and pushed myself and
Adare away.
Mr. J. J. Morse and a professional " physical medium " named
Herne are said to have been elongated at seances which took place
in 1870. But no details are given of the manifestations. With these
unimportant exceptions, the manifestation appears to have been almost
peculiar to Home. Quite recently, however, we have received from an
Associate of the Society, the Rev. C. J. M. Shaw, of the Orchard,
Swanley, Kent, an account, which is given below, of an elongation
which took place last year in the presence of himself and two
members of his family. Three possible explanations of the phe
nomenon suggest themselves. (1) Some peculiarity in the conforma
tion of the medium's body may have admitted of a genuine elongation ;
(2) the observed results may have been due to trickery of some
kind on the part of the medium; (3) the observers may have
experienced a sensory illusion or quasi-hallucination. The last two
hypotheses, it should be pointed out, are not mutually exclusive.
If trickery was employed, it probably aimed at producing an
illusion on the part of the spectators, an aim to which the dim light,
and the expectation produced by the promise made earlier in the day
of something remarkable in the evening, may no doubt have con
tributed. As having some possible bearing upon the subject, it should
be mentioned that the Rev. C. J. M. Shaw has on several occasions
experienced visual hallucinations, which, in two instances at least, have
been shared by others. A collective illusion or hallucination of the
kind here suggested no doubt goes beyond anything for which we have
at present adequate evidence, though the accounts of some spiritualist
seances suggest that collective sense-deceptions may be induced, in a
dim light, by verbal suggestion. A good illustration of this will be
found in the article by Professor Harlow Gale, A Study in Spiritistic
Hallucinations, published in Proceedings S.P.R., vol. xv., p. 65. Perhaps
some of our readers may be able to furnish other cases of elongation or
similar phenomena, noted down after, at most, a short interval, which
may help to throw light on the matter.
Mr. Shaw first gave Mr. Podmore an account of the incident last
November, and sent him the written account, which is printed below, on
February 6th, 1901. The interval which elapsed between the event and
its record is no doubt much to be regretted, but we have three memories to
rely upon ; and there can be little doubt that the occurrence, whatever
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Jctr, 1901.
its explanation, made at the time a notable impression upon all three
witnesses.
Mr. Shaw's Account.
In the early part of May [1900] we engaged the services of Mr. Alfred
Peters for experiments in clairvoyance. This was his second visit to
our house, and we considered that he had been curiously accurate in
one or two cases of clairvoyance and psychometry.
On this special occasion I had had a sitting with him in the after
noon and long conversations with his Hindu control, who had expressed
a hope we should obtain something remarkable in the evening.
We commenced our evening sitting about 9.30 p.m., " the Hindu "
controlling at first and subsequently giving place to a " Red Indian,"
who is by way of taking charge for "personations." There were several
of these which had their points of interest, and then "the Indian"
announced that he thought the conditions were good to produce
" elongation " of the medium's body, which was a rare phenomenon and
had only twice been produced before in the person of this medium.
It will be better here to give a small plan of the room showing our
respective positions :
FIREPLACE fvarmc;
O
f
A, B, C, Chairs. (A) Mr. E. S. (B) Mr. S. (C) Mrs. S. (D) The
medium. (E) Tall standard lamp. The medium took up his position
standing at (D) between myself and my brother, who were sitting on
ordinary easy chairs, the seats of which are 14 inches from the
ground. Mrs. S. was sitting at (C) in a rush-bottomed chair rather
higher, the seat 16 inches from the ground, and removed a distance of at
least four feet from the medium, whom she did not touch during the
whole of this part of the sitting ; indeed, we none of us moved from
our chairs during the whole time.
The room was lit by a tall standard round wick lamp placed at (E).
This lamp (with a pink shade over it) we turned down, leaving
1901.] An Alleged Case of Elongation. 107
sufficient light to discern one another quite clearly and the objects in
the room. Unfortunately, after the manner of a paraffin lamp, as it
cooled, the light was reduced a little more than we intended, but was
never so low as to prevent our distinguishing everything quite suffi
ciently clearly.
My brother at (A) placed his right foot on the medium's left foot, and
I placed my left foot on the medium's right foot. (The medium was
wearing ordinary boots.) And then my brother placed his right hand
and I my left hand on the medium's waist, our other hands grasping
(at first) the medium's hands.
The medium's height as measured by myself against the wall of my
room is 5 feet 7J inches. The medium began to sway backwards and
forwards (his face was towards the sitter at c), sometimes falling so far
backward that the back of his head nearly touched the ground. He
then began to sway sideways, first one side then the other, disengaging
his hands from ours and placing them (below ours) above his hips.
He then stretched his hands, with palms open towards (c) and fingers
extended, straight out above his head ; and with his head thrown back,
the motion from side to side becoming less and less till it ceased
altogether, appeared to be drawn upwards by his hands.
Both my brother and I looked to see that we were still on his feet
and that our hands were on his waist ; we were both conscious that the
hands we had placed on his waist were being carried up as the
elongation gradually took place. Keeping our eyes upon him we
found that we had to stretch our arms to their fullest extent (without
rising from our seats) to retain their position on his waist. On my
attempting to rise from my chair the " Indian " requested me to
remain seated. At last a point was reached when I called to my
brother, " If he goes any higher I can't reach," my arm being stretched
to its very fullest extent; at the same time I was conscious, and so
was my brother, that our feet were still on the medium's feet. The
"Red Indian" (who was controlling) called to us then to observe his
hands, one arm (the hand and fingers being open and extended) being
quite 6 inches longer than the other; from our position this was
difficult for my brother and me to see, but was quite apparent to Mrs. S.
at (c). Again our attention was directed to the fact that the shorter
arm had been elongated to match the other. We had now arrived at
the limit of our own powers of extension, and with a warning from "the
Indian" the medium collapsed on to the floor. He subsided in a sitting
position on the floor at the same point at which he was standing. Mrs.
S., sitting at (c), had a good view of the whole process, and was able
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1901.
to note the elongation with reference to the background. When the
medium's hands were first raised she saw them against the background
of the red curtains of the bow window ; she then noted their passing
the line (F) (G), which marks a difference of 6 inches between the
ceiling of the bow window and that of the room (the ceiling of the
bow window being that much lower), and finally remarked his hands
against the background of the ceiling itself. Taking into considera
tion the distance we had to extend our arms to keep our hands on
his waist, one would judge the elongation to have been at the very
least a matter of 18 inches.
There was no breach of continuity in the clothing apparent
which one might have expected. After the sitting the medium
appeared much fatigued; still he endeavoured to show us another
curious phenomenon ; rubbing his face violently with both hands,
long streaks of light became visible through his fingers; this I
clearly remarked, though it was not noticed by the others.
We have tried since on two occasions to obtain a repetition of
the phenomenon of elongation, but without success.
I have written this account of the matter as it presented itself
to my observation, and it is difficult to see how we can have been
deceived.
I may say that the medium himself drew our attention to the
unusual length of his arms, and that, as far as our knowledge of him
goes, we have never had anything to cause us to doubt his integrity.
The medium laid down no conditions whatever (beyond requesting
that the lamp be turned down) before commencing the se'ance.
[Later, Mr. Shaw gave, in answer to Mr. Podmore's questions,
the following additional particulars.]
When the seance commenced at 9.30 the medium occupied the chair
at (c), Mrs. S. then sitting at (D). At about 10.15, for the experiment
in "elongation," he changed his position and stood at (D), Mrs. S.
moving to (c).
The only chair near (D) I pushed away when the medium began
to sway backwards and forwards, fearing he would knock himself
against it.
The curtains of the bow window follow the shape of the bow,
and were distant from the medium at his back quite 8 feet and on
his left side a distance of about 5 feet; a small inlaid writing
bureau with sloping lid separating him from the edge of the curtain
on his left.
JULY, 1901.] An Alleged Case of Elongation. 10!>
After the medium fell, which he did in a sitting position on the
floor with his knees near to his chin, he complained of discomfort,
etc., and stiffness, and asked if " they had been elongating him."
C. J. M. SHAW.
E. L. W. B. SHAW.
B. E. SHAW.
With reference to the introductory remark previous to Mr. Shaw's
account, Mrs. Shaw and Mr. B. E. Shaw wish it to be noted that
they have never had any so-called " visual hallucinations."
AMERICAN BRANCH OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
WE are requested to state in the Journal that a questionnaire on the
subject of human sentiment with regard to a future life is being
circulated in the United States by the American Branch of the Society.
The question of issuing it in England was brought before the Council
last year. After full consideration, however, the Council decided not
to take any steps in the matter.
The schedule used for the enquiry is as follows :
INQUIRY INTO HUMAN SENTIMENT WITH REGARD TO A
FUTURE LIFE.
There is a widespread literary tradition that men naturally desire a future
life. From this assumed fact it has been variously argued that (1) such a
universal desire cannot be destined to disappointment, and (2) it must
vitiate convictions and engender illusory evidence in its own support.
But there is some reason to suppose, both from the ordinary conduct of
men and from sporadic declarations of individuals, that this tradition is very
far from accurately representing the facts, and that these are actually more
various and complicated. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that in
India the literary tradition seems to be exactly reversed, and it is assumed
that men naturally crave for extinction or absorption in the Absolute.
It becomes a question, therefore, what the actual sentiments of men are,
and what, consequently, is the actual bias with which they are likely to
receive the doctrines and the evidence that bear on the subject.
Both these questions are capable of being determined with sufficient
precision by instituting a statistical inquiry over a sufficiently wide field—
collecting answers until it becomes evident that the percentages of the
various types of answer have become constant.
To determine the nature of men's actual sentiments and actual bias should
be a matter of great interest, not only to the S.P.R. and psychologists
generally, but also to every religious organization. For both the scientific
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1901.
labours of the former and the moral exhortations of the latter are likely to
be in some degree, at least, ineffectual, so long as they are conducted in
ignorance, and so in disregard, of what men really want. It is only when
the facts have been ascertained that they can be argued from for the various
purposes of the scientist, the philosopher and the theologian.
First of all, therefore, it is necessary to discover the nature of human
sentiment ; and to obtain it in its purity, it is desirable to exclude, as far as
possible, all extraneous influences, whether of a religious or of a scientific
kind. It is, of course, recognized that these may and often do influence
sentiment, that they may engender or check it, as also that there may be a
marked divergence between conviction or belief and sentiment. But as it is
primarily the nature of the sentiment which has to be determined, these
other considerations should be excluded as far as possible.
Hence the subjoined questions should be understood as directly referring only
to the personal preferences, sentiments or desires of those who answer them, quite
irrespective of their religious faith or reasoned convictions, the influence of
which, where it exists, may be recorded in answer to Question III.
Please return this questionnaire when answered to
DR. RICHARD HODGSON,
5 BOYLSTON PLACE,
BOSTON, MASS, U.S.A.
N.B.—All names will be regarded as strictly confidential.
QUESTIONS.
I. Would you prefer (a) to live after ' death ' or (6) not ?
II. (a) If I. (a), do you desire a future life whatever the conditions
might be ?
(6) If not, what would have to be its character to make the prospect
seem tolerable ? Would you, e.g. be content with a life more or
less like your present life ?
(c) Can you say what elements in life (if any) are felt by you to call
for its perpetuity ?
III. Can you state why you feel in this way, as regards questions I. and II. ?
IV: Do you NOW feel the question of a future life to be of urgent import
ance to your mental comfort ?
V. Have your feelings on questions I., II. and IV. undergone change ? If
so, when and in what ways ?
VI. (a) Would you like to know for certain about the future life, or (6)
would you prefer to leave it a matter offaith f
HINTS FOR COLLECTORS.
1. Answers should be collected by preference from educated adults.
2. Collectors should fill up their own papers first, and get the others
answered independently.
JDLY, 1901.] American Branch of the Society. Ill
3. Any answer, AFFIRMATIVE OR NEGATIVE, is valuable as a psychological
fact.
4. Even a refusal to answer is a valuable indication of feeling, which it is
important to record. In such case, the collector should, if possible,
ask the reason of the refusal, and should then fill up a census paper
with the name, etc., of the refuser, inserting the reason given for
refusing under the head of Remarks.
STATE :—Name
Address
Age Sex
Nationality
Profession
Date -
Please return this questionnaire when answered to RICHARD HODGSON,
Secretary, 5 Boylston Place, Boston, Mass., from whom additional copies of
the questionnaire may be obtained, and to whom letters of inquiry or appli
cation for membership of the American Branch of the Society for Psychical
Research should be addressed.
This enquiry was suggested by Mr. F. C. S. Schiller, and it was
thought that it might meet with a more favourable reception in the
United States than in England. Those who are carrying it on, how
ever, will be glad to receive assistance from any persons in England
who may be interested in it. Further information and copies of the
questionnaire can be obtained by them from
F. C. S. SCHILLER, ESQ.,
CORPUS CHRISTI COLLEGE,
OXFORD,
to whom also any questionnaire filled up in England or in Europe
generally should be returned.
PROFESSOR HYSLOFS REPORT ON MRS. PIPER.
Professor J. H. Hyslop's Report on his sittings with Mrs. Piper
will appear in the next Part of the Proceedings to be issued, Part XLI.
{constituting Vol. XVI.). This Part is now in the press, and will, it is
hoped, be published in the course of the summer.
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1901.
SUBSCRIPTIONS AND DONATIONS TOWARDS THE FUNDS
OF THE SOCIETY.
SECOND LIST.
The following Contributions have been received or promised :
First List (see Journal for June, p. 92),
Lady Butt,
Miss Adelaide C. Freeman,
Mr. Lewis G. Fry,
Mr. W. B. Fotheringham,
Mr. Robert Hannah, -
Dr. Stenson Hooker, .--.
Mrs. Matthews,
Mr. E. T. Nisbet,
Mr. M. Petrovo-Solovovo,
Mrs. Eeynolds,
Eev. E. H. Bogers,
Sir Henry M. Stanley, G.C.B., D.C.L., LL.D.
Mrs. Tennant, -
Col. S. D. Williams, .--.
Annual
Subscriptions.
£76 6 0
110
550
1 1 0
Donations.
£40 10 0
500
500
220
1 1 0
5 0 0
3 8 0
5 0 0
10 0 0
1 1 0
5 0 0
10 0 0
10 10 0
£83 13 0 £103 7 0
The following Associates desire to become Members :
Lady Butt, ... -
Mr. Francis Clarke,
Rev. E. H. Gardiner,
Rev. W. S. Grignon,
Mr. H. H. Grubbe, .
Mr. W. H. Hamilton,
Mr. F. W. H. Hutchinson,
Professor G. G. Murray, -
Mr. E. T. Nisbet (Hon. Associate.),
Mrs. Passingham, -
Mr. Lewis C. Powles,
Miss Ridley, -
Commander H. Swire,
Mrs. Tebb, -
Mr. Edmund P. Wells, -
Increased
Subscription.
£110
110
110
1 1 0
110
1 1 0
110
110
220
110
110
110
110
1 1
1 1
£16 16 0
No. CLXXXIL—VOL. X. OCTOBER, 1901.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
New Members and Associates,
Meeting of the Council, - - - - 114
Reduction in the number of General
Meetings of the Society, ... 115
CONTENTS.
PAGE
- 113
The Fire Walk Ceremony in Tahiti, 116
Correspondence :
On the Attitude of the Society for
Psychical Research towards the
Spiritistic Hypothesis, - - - 121
On the Possibilityof Local Organisa
tions of Members for Work in
Psychical Research, - . - 126
Subscriptions and Donations to the
Funds of the Society—(continued), 128
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Bebrens, Noel Edward, The Oaks, Fallowfield, Manchester.
Behrens, Richard Gompertz, 180 Piccadilly, London, W.
GROSVENOR, HON. MRS. EICHARD, St. Cross Lodge, Winchester.
HARRADEN, Miss BEATRICE, 5 Cannon Place, Hampstead, London, N.W.
MACAURA, DR. GERALD J., New York, U.S.A.
MUIRHEAD, PROFESSOR JOHN HENRY, 1 York Road, Edgbaston,
Birmingham.
PINSENT, MRS. HUME, Lordswood, Harborne, Birmingham.
PRESTON, MRS., 10 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
STEPHENS, MRS., 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W.
YEGOUNOFF, MLLE. NINA, Vassilievsky Ostrov, 1 3th line, No. 42, lodg.
4, St. Petersburg.
WOODWARD, Miss MABEL, 18 Harborne Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Wooldridge, H. B., 19 Lymington Road, West Hampstead, N.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BRADLEY, ARTHUR C., Newport, New Hampshire.
JAMES, REV. J. A., PH.D., Sullivan State Road Baptist Church, Maines-
burg, Pa.
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1901.
JONES, MRS. GILBERT E., 222 Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y.
LYON, APPLETON P., 25 West 42nd Street, New York, N.Y.
MINSHALL, DR. ARTHUR G., Round Hill, Northampton, Mass.
PHYFE, W. H. P., 12 East 43rd Street, New York, N.Y.
SNYDER, D. LAFAYETTE, M.A., M.D., 1635, Girard Ave., Phila, Pa.
ULLMAN, MRS. MARY B., Mesa, Arizona.
WAY, MRS. GEORGE PEIRCE, 209 W. 56th Street, New York, N.Y.
WEST, REDFIELD B., M.D., Fair Street, Guilford, Conn.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the Rooms of the Society, 1 9 Buckingham Street,
on August 3rd. There were present : The President (Dr. Lodge) in
the chair ; Professor W. F. Barrett, Dr. R. Hodgson, Miss Alice John
son, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. F. C. S. Schiller,
Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Dr. Charles L. Tuckey, and
Mrs. Verrall.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as correct.
Three new Members and nine new Associates were elected. The
election of ten new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Names and addresses are given above.
A list of annual subscriptions and donations made in response to the
recent appeal by the Council was read. The annual subscriptions
amounted to £84 14s., and the donations to £140 9s.
The following were at their request transferred from the list of
Associates to that of Members : Mrs. Arthur Bulley, Lady Butt, Mr.
Francis Clarke, Rev. E. H. Gardiner, Rev. W. S. Grignon, Mr. H. H.
Grubbe, Mr. W. H. Hamilton, Miss Hartshorn, Mr. F. W. H.
Hutchinson, Miss A. R. Marten, Prof. G. G. Murray, Mr. E. T. Nisbet
(Hon. Associate), Mrs. Passingham, Mr. Lewis C. Powles, Miss Ridley,
Prof. C. W. Sellin, Miss E. Shove, Mr. Chester A. Snow, Commander
H. Swire, Mrs. Tebb, and Mr. Edmund P. Wells.
The Committee appointed at the last meeting of the Council, in
reference to new rooms for the Society, reported that they had in
spected various offices, but that they advised waiting on the chance of
obtaining some advantageous premises which would not be vacant for
some months. With a view to this, arrangements had been made for
continuing the present tenancy till Christmas, 1901.
A letter was read from the Assistant-Secretary, in which he said that
he felt the time had arrived when, from length of service and lapse of
OCT., 1901.] Meeting of the Council. 115
years, he could best serve the .S. P. R. by asking the Council shortly to
allow him to retire from his present position. He therefore placed in
the hands of the Council his resignation of the assistant-secretaryship
at the end of the quarter following the completion of twenty years'
service, namely, at the end of March, 1 902. The President proposed,
and Professor Barrett seconded, the following resolution, which was
carried unanimously: "That the Council place on record their appre
ciation of the long and faithful services of Mr. E. T. Bennett to the
Society ; and that they accept with regret his retirement at Easter,
1902. They elect him an Hon. Associate of the Society, and request
him to accept a retiring allowance of £40 a-year."
It was proposed by the President, and seconded by Mrs. Sidgwick,
that in future not more than three General Meetings of the Society
should be held in the course of a year, but that a few private meetings,
for Members and Associates only, should be held in addition. This
was carried unanimously.
The date of the next Council meeting was left to be arranged later.
REDUCTION IN THE NUMBER OF GENERAL MEETINGS
OF THE SOCIETY.
We wish to draw the attention of Members and Associates to the
resolution which was passed unanimously by the Council at their last
meeting, on August 3rd,—that in future not more than three General
Meetings of the Society should be held in the course of a year, but
that, in addition to these, a few private meetings, for Members and
Associates only, should be held.
The reasons for this change may be briefly stated as follows : For
several years past a very large proportion of those present at the General
Meetings have been visitors, the members and associates constituting,
as a rule, considerably less than a quarter of the audience. The
visitors may be roughly divided into two classes : the casual visitor,
who comes once or twice out of curiosity, and then takes no further
interest in the Society ; and the habitud, who, while his regular attendance
shows that he derives either instruction or amusement from the papers
and discussions, contributes nothing either to the finances or to the
work of the Society. In other words, the General Meetings have been
patronised much more by the outside public than by the members.
It is felt also that the size of the audience debars many members from
taking part in the discussions, in which they might be more ready to
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1901.
join at smaller and private meetings. And at smaller and less formal
meetings it would be possible to bring forward cases and papers which,
though not intended for publication—at least as they stand—are yet
interesting or suggestive, and might serve as a basis for discussion.
Our present rooms, however, are not nearly large enough for
members to meet in, so that the meetings cannot be organised until
new rooms are taken. It will be remembered that one of the purposes
for which the Council made its recent appeal for further support was to
provide a larger and more commodious set of offices, and we hope that
members who are interested in the plan of private meetings will be
inclined to contribute to the fund, the present state of which is shown
in the list of subscriptions printed below, on p. 128.
THE FIRE WALK CEREMONY IN TAHITI.
Some striking accounts of the Fire Walk, as practised in many
different countries and described in some cases by European witnesses,
were given in Mr. Andrew Lang's paper on the subject in our
Proceedings, vol. xv., pp. 2-15, and readers of the Journal will remember
the equally remarkable recent Indian cases reported by Mr. Henry K.
Beauchamp in the Journal for November, 1900 (vol. ix., pp. 312-321).
We think it worth while, therefore, to reprint here in full a letter that
appeared in Nature, of August 22nd, 1901, from the pen of Professor
S. P. Langley, of the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A.
(who is also a Vice-President of our Society), and who has recently
witnessed the ceremony in Tahiti. It will be seen that Professor
Langley succeeded in making more crucial tests of the temperature of
different parts of the fire than have, as far as we know, been applied in
any other case, with the result that there appeared to be nothing
supernormal in the performance he witnessed. It must, indeed, be
remembered that the details of the ceremony vary a good deal in
different places and as practised by different persons, as will be seen
by comparison of the various accounts referred to above. But the case
now to be quoted seems to have been more completely observed, and
that by a more competent observer, than any other yet recorded.
The very remarkable descriptions of the " Fire Walk " collected by Mr.
Andrew Lang and others had aroused a curiosity in me to witness the original
ceremony, which I have lately been able to gratify in a visit to Tahiti.
Among those notable accounts is one by Colonel Gudgeon, British Resi
dent at Raratonga, describing the experiment by a man from Raiatea, and
also a like account of the Fiji fire ceremony from Dr. T. M. Hocken, whose
OCT., 1901.] The Fire Walk Ceremony in Tahiti. 117
article is also quoted in Mr. Lang's paper on the " Fire Walk " in the
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, February, 1900. This
extraordinary rite is also described by Mr. Fraser in the Golden Bough and
by others.
I had heard that it was performed in Tahiti in 1897, and several persons
there assured me of their having seen it, and one of them of his having walked
through the fire himself under the guidance of the priest, Papa-Ita, who is
said to be one of the last remnants of a certain order of the priesthood of
Raiatea, and who had also performed the rite at the island of Hawaii some
time in the present year, of which circumstantial newspaper accounts were
given, agreeing in all essential particulars with those in the accounts already
cited. According to these, a pit was dug in which large stones were heated
red hot by a fire which had been burning many hours. The upper stones
were pushed away just before the ceremony, so as to leave the lower stones
to tread upon, and over these, "glowing red hot " (according to the news
paper accounts), Papa-Ita had walked with naked feet, exciting such
enthusiasm that he was treated with great consideration by the whites, and
by the natives as a god. I found it commonly believed in Tahiti that any
one who choose to walk after him, European or native, could do so in
safety, secure in the magic which he exercises, if his instructions were
exactly followed. Here in Tahiti, where he had " walked " four years before,
it was generally believed among the natives, and even among the Europeans
present who had seen the ceremony, that if any one turned around to look
back he immediately was burned, and I was told that all those who followed
him through the fire were expected not to turn until they had reached
the other side in safety, when he again entered the fire and led them back
by the path by which he had come. I was further told by several who had
tried it that the heat was not felt upon the feet, and that when shoes
were worn the soles were not burned (for those who followed the priest's
directions), but it was added by all that much heat was felt about the head.
Such absolutely extraordinary accounts of the performance had been given
to me by respectable eye-witnesses and sharers in the trial, confirming those
given iu Hawaii, and, in the main, the cases cited by Mr. Lang, that I could
not doubt that if all these were verified by my own observation, it would
mean nothing less to me than a departure from the customary order of
Nature, and something very well worth seeing indeed.
I was glad, therefore, to meet personally the priest, Papa-Ita. He is the
finest looking native that I have seen ; tall, dignified in bearing, with
unusually intelligent features. I learned from him that he would perform
the ceremony on Wednesday, July 17, the day before the sailing of our ship.
I was ready to provide the cost of the fire, if he could not obtain it other
wise, but this proved to be unnecessary.
Papa-Ita himself spoke no English, and I conversed with him briefly
through an interpreter. He said that he walked over the hot stones without
danger by virtue of spells which he was able to utter and by the aid of a
goddess (or devil as my interpreter had it), who was formerly a native of the
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1901.
islands. The spells, he said, were something which he could teach another.
I was told by others that there was a still older priest in the Island of
Raiatea, whose disciple he was, although he had pupils of his own, and that
he could " send his spirit " to Raiatea to secure the permission of his senior
priest if necessary.
In answer to my inquiry as to what preparations he was going to make
for the rite in the two or three days before it, he said he was going to pass
them in prayer.
The place selected for the ceremony fortunately was not far from the ship.
I went there at noon and found that a large shallow pit or trench had been
dug, about nine feet by twenty-one feet and about two feet deep. Lying
near by was a pile containing some cords of rough wood and a pile of
rounded water-worn stones, weighing, I should think, from forty to eighty
pounds apiece. They were, perhaps, 200 in number, and all of porous
basalt, a feature the importance of which will be seen later. The wood was
placed in the trench, the fire was lighted and the stones heaped on it, as
I was told, directly after I left, or at about twelve o'clock.
At 4.0 P.M. I went over again and found the preparations very nearly
complete. The fire had been burning for nearly four hours. The outer
stones touched the ground only at the edges of the pile, where they did
not burn my hand, but as they approached the centre the stones were heaped
up into a mound three or four layers deep, at which point the lowest
layers seen between the upper ones were visibly red-hot. That these latter
were nevertheless sending out considerable heat there could be no ques
tion, though the topmost stones were certainly not red-hot, while those at
the bottom were visibly so and were occasionally splitting with loud
reports, while the flames from the burnt wood near the centre of the pile
passed up in visible lambent tongues, both circumstances contributing to
the eifect upon the excited bystanders.
The upper stones, I repeat, even where the topmost were presently re
moved, did not show any glow to the eye, but were unquestionably very
hot and certainly looked unsafe for naked feet. Native feet, however, are
not like European ones, and Mr. Richardson, the chief engineer of the
ship, mentioned that he had himself seen elsewhere natives standing un
concerned with naked feet on the cover of pipes conveying steam at about
300° F., where no European feet could even lightly rest for a minute. The
stones then were hot. The crucial question was, how hot was the upper
part of this upper layer on which the feet were to rest an instant in passing ?
I could think of no ready thermometric method that could give an abso
lutely trustworthy answer, but I could possibly determine on the spot the
thermal equivalent of one of the hottest stones trodden on. (It was sub
sequently shown that the stone might be much cooler at one part than
another.) Most obviously, even this was not an easy thing to do in the
circumstances, but I decided to try to get at least a trustworthy approxima
tion. By the aid of Chief Engineer Richardson, who attended with a stoker
and one of the quartermasters, kindly detailed at my request by the ship's
OCT., 1901.] The Fire Walk Ceremony in Tahiti. 119
master, Captain Lawless, I prepared for the rough but conclusive experi
ment presently described.
It was now nearly forty minutes after four, when six acolytes (natives),
wearing crowns of flowers, wreathed with garlands, and bearing poles nearly
fifteen feet long, ostensibly to be used as levers in toppling over the upper
stones, appeared. They were supposed to need such long poles because of the
distance at which they must stand on account of the heat radiated from the
pile, but I had walked close beside it a moment before and satisfied myself
that I could have manipulated the stones with a lever of one-third the length,
with some discomfort, but with entire safety. Some of the uppermost
stones only were turned over, leaving a superior layer, the long poles being
needlessly thrust down between the stones to the bottom, where two of
them caught fire at their extremities, adding very much to the impression
that the exposed layer of stones was red hot, when in fact they were not,
at least to the eye. These long poles and the way they were handled were,
then, a part of the ingenious "staging " of the whole spectacle.
Now the most impressive part of the ceremony began. Papa-Ita, tall,
dignified, flower-crowned and dressed with garlands of flowers, appeared
with naked feet and with a large bush of " Ti " leaves in his hands, and,
after going partly around the fire each way uttering what seemed to be
commands to it, went back and beating the stones nearest him three times
with the " Ti " leaves, advanced steadily, but with obviously hurried step,
directly over the central ridge of the pile. Two disciples, similarly dressed,
followed him, but they had not the courage to do so directly along the heated
centre. They followed about half-way between the centre and the edge,
where the stones were manifestly cooler, since I had satisfied myself that
they could be touched lightly with the hand. Papa-Ita then turned and led
the way back, this time with deliberate confidence, followed on his return by
several new disciples, most of them not keeping exactly in the steps of the
leader, but obviously seeking cooler places. A third and fourth time Papa-
Ita crossed with a larger following, after which many Europeans present
walked over the stones without reference to the priest's instructions. The
natives were mostly in their bare feet. One wore stockings. No European
attempted to walk in bare feet except in one case, that of a boy, who, I was
told, found the stones too hot and immediately stepped back.
The mise en scbne was certainly noteworthy. The site, near the great
ocean breaking on the barrier reefs, the excited crowd, talking about the
"red-hot" stones, the actual sight of the hierophant and his acolytes making
the passage along the ridge where the occasional tongues of flame were seen
at the centre, with all the attendant circumstances, made up a scene in no
way lacking in interest. Still, the essential question as to the actual heat of
these stones had not yet been answered, and after the fourth passage I
secured Papa-Ita'a permission to remove, from the middle of the pile, one
stone which from its size and position every foot had rested upon in crossing,
and which was undoubtedly at least as hot as any one of those trodden on.
It was pulled out by my assistants with difficulty, as it proved to be larger
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Ocr., 1901.
than I had expected, it being of ovoid shape with the lower end in the
hottest part of the fire. I had brought over the largest wooden bucket
which the ship had, and which was half-filled with water, expecting that
this would cover the stone, but it proved to be hardly enough. The stone
caused the water to rise nearly to the top of the bucket, and it was thrown
into such violent ebullition that a great deal of it boiled over and escaped
weighing. The stone was an exceedingly bad conductor of heat, for it
continued to boil the water for about twelve minutes, when, the ebullition
being nearly over, it was removed to the ship and the amount of evaporated
water measured.
Meanwhile others, as I have said, began to walk over the stones without
any reference to the ceremony prescribed by Papa-Ita, and three or four
persons, whom I personally knew on board the ship, did so in shoes, the
soles of which were not burned at all. One of the gentlemen, however, who
crossed over with unburned shoes, showed me that the ends of his trousers
had been burnt by the flames which leaped up between the stones, and
which at all times added so much to the impressiveness of the spectacle,
and there was no doubt that any one who stumbled or got a foot caught
between the hot stones might have been badly burned. United States
Deputy-Consul Ducorran, who was present, remarked to me that he knew
that Papa-Ita had failed on a neighbouring island, with stones of a marble-
like quality, and he offered to test the heat of these basaltic ones by seeing
how long he could remain on the hottest part of the pile, and he stood there,
in my sight, from eight to ten seconds before he felt the heat through the
thin soles of his shoes beginning to be unpleasantly warm.
A gentleman present asked Papa-Ita why he did not give an exhibit that
would be convincing by placing his foot, even for a few seconds, between
two of the red-hot stones which could be seen glowing at the bottom of the
pile, to which Papa-Ita replied with dignity, " My fathers did not tell me to
do it that way." I asked him if he would hold one of the smaller, upper
hot stones in his hand. He promised to do so, but he did not do it.
The outer barriers were now removed and a crowd of natives pressed in.
I, who was taking these notes on the spot, left, after assuring myself that
the stones around the edge of the pit were comparatively cold, although the
centre was no doubt very hot, and those below red hot. The real question
is, I repeat, how hot were those trodden on ? and the answer to this I was
to try to obtain after measuring the amount of water boiled away.
On returning to the ship this was estimated from the water which was
left in the bucket (after allowing for that spilled over) at about ten pounds.
The stone, which it will be remembered was one of the hottest, if not the
hottest, in the pile, was found to weigh sixty-five pounds, and to have
evaporated this quantity of water. It was, as I have said, a volcanic stone,
and on minuter examination proved to be a vesicular basalt, the most
distinctive feature of which was its porosity and non-conductibility, for it
was subsequently found that it could have been heated red hot at one end,
while remaining comparatively cool at the top. I brought a piece of it to
OCT., 1901.] The Fire Walk Ceremony in Tahiti. 121
Washington with me and there determined its specific gravity to be 0'39, its
specific heat 0'19, and its conductivity to be so extremely small that one end
of a small fragment could be held in the hand while the other was heated
indefinitely in the flame of a blow-pipe, almost like a stick of sealing-wax.
This partly defeated the aim of the experiment (to find the temperature of
the upper part of the stone), since only the mean temperature was found.
This mean temperature of the hottest atone of the upper layer, as deduced
from the above data, was about 1200 degrees Fahrenheit, but the tempera
ture of the surface must have been indefinitely lower. The temperature at
which such a stone begins to show a dull red in daylight is, so far as I am
aware, not exactly determined, but is approximately 1300 to 1400 degrees
Fahrenheit.
To conclude, I could entertain no doubt that I had witnessed substantially
the scenes described by the gentlemen cited, and I have reason to believe
that I saw a very favourable specimen of a " Fire Walk."
It was a sight well worth seeing. It was a most clever and interesting
piece of savage magic, but from the evidence I have just given I am obliged
to say (almost regretfully) that it was not a miracle. S. P. LANGLEY.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C., August 7.
Some comments by Mr. Andrew Lang on this account have since
appeared in the Morning Post. We hope to print a further contribution
from Mr. Lang on the subject in our next number.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by Correspondents.]
ON THE ATTITUDE OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
TOWARDS THE SPIRITISTIC HYPOTHESIS.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
L
MAY I attempt to voice an uneasy feeling which I believe many
members have with regard to the future of the Society. It is true
that in some respects we stand at the parting of the ways, and much
care and tolerance will be needed to keep the Society together.
Up to now the task we have been engaged on has been a scientific
one, and Mr. Myers in his Presidential Address rightly insisted on the
intellectual virtues of curiosity, candour, and care. But to those who,
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1901.
through the investigations of the Society, have arrived at the conviction
that communications with discarnate intelligences are possible, these
virtues are not sufficient. They require to be supplemented by the
moral virtues of faith, patience, and sympathy. Faith, because he
that comes to the spirits must believe that they exist, and that in some
cases they are able and willing to communicate with mankind.
Patience amid the almost inevitable delays and disappointments
while developing mediumship in oneself or others ; sympathy, in
order that your circle may not be the resort of frivolous or per
sonating spirits, but of those who come to seek for help or to give
instruction.
In short, this branch of our inquiry is an art as well as a science,
dealing as it does with intelligences as well as with psychic laws.
Now, some of our members may have a special aptitude for discovery
on what may be called the artistic side of our work. But the question
whether artists and scientists are to work together in one society will
really depend on the attitude of the scientists, as artists are a tender
folk and easily scared away by suggestions of fraud or even of
credulity.
All will feel that our late President, with his many-sided sympathies,
would have kept both sections together. Let us hope that the present
leaders will be true to his memory and not let a difference of method
divide those who will travel so much further along the right road if
only they hold together.
LAWRENCE J. JONES.
August, 1901.
II.
I have read Sir Lawrence Jones' important letter with much interest
and sympathy. He there touches on what has always been and what
still is one of our most difficult questions of policy. He urges that we
are not only a scientific society, but that by reason of the nature of our
researches we must have a side more human and more considerate or
diplomatic than societies which deal with matters less closely linked
with emotion and conduct. In this respect he is undoubtedly right.
We do not compare in this respect with a physical or an astronomical
or even a biological society ; we are more akin to an anthropological
society. And in studying the habits and customs of Aborigines it is
proverbially necessary to enter into sympathetic relations with them,
not to trouble or confuse them with a missionary attitude, and not to
frighten them by hostile suggestions, but to enter for the time into
OCT., 1901.] Correspondence. 123
their spirit, and learn from them what they have to teach. That
branch of anthropological inquiry is no doubt an " art " as well as a
science, dealing as it does with religious'emotions and social prejudices
as well as with mere intelligence. On the other hand, it must be
admitted that although the sympathetic and receptive attitude has its
place, it cannot be allowed a dominating position, otherwise the
investigator would tend to become a disciple, and the scientific might
degenerate into a propagandist society, having a creed and body of
orthodox doctrine, held not on the ground of knowledge but in an
atmosphere of faith.
Indeed, the word " faith " is the only one to which I take definite
exception in Sir Lawrence Jones' amiable and judicious letter. If
he would substitute for the word "faith" the word "open-minded-
ness," and modify the sentence following so as to continue thereafter :
" because in entering upon the investigation of an unknown psychic
universe every possibility must be admitted as conceivable, and the
hypothesis of communications from beings other than man must by
no means be excluded," I could myself endorse the whole letter as a
statement of the special difficulties which we have to encounter in this
investigation and the opposite attitudes which are necessary, whether
combined in one or in many individuals. It would be a great pity if
those with special powers for helping our work on one side—those
whom the writer calls " artists "—should eliminate themselves from the
conjoint work; especially since, on the other hand, those whom the
writer calls " scientists " are at present conspicuous chiefly by their
absence from our society, being for the most part amazed at what they
consider the ludicrously sympathetic and credulous attitude of those
few men of science whom our work has attracted. It is to be re
membered, therefore, that the need for sympathy and delicate handling
is not confined to one side alone ; and the ever-present problem, now
just as living as at the birth of the society, is how best to unite the
scientific and intellectual virtues with the moral and emotional powers,
striving not to exclude any one whose mind is open enough to examine
and criticise the evidence, nor yet one whose powers are developed
enough to add to our slow accumulation of criticised and trustworthy
facts. OLIVER LODGE.
III.
Sir Lawrence Jones' catalogue of the qualities required in an investi
gation such as ours seems to me, with one exception—an exception
already made by our President—to be admirably selected. No doubt
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Ocr., 1901.
in all scientific undertakings the virtues of curiosity, candour, and care
are essential ; and in most cases there should be added to them patience
and sympathy. It was precisely the lack of these two latter virtues
that led the medical men of Elliotson's day to reject, with such
unfortunate results, the evidence for the hypnotic trance, to see in
the Okey girls merely a couple of commonplace impostors, to believe
that a poor man who had his leg cut 'off in the trance had concealed the
pain of the operation merely to oblige the mesmerist, to ignore the
admirable work of Braid, and to class Elliotson, Esdaile, Townshend,
and the rest as a set of weak-minded and credulous enthusiasts. It
would be unpardonable if members of the S.P.R., with such an example
behind them, were to repeat the mistakes of a former generation, and
reject phenomena which they had never taken the trouble to under
stand. That, I take it, is the danger which Sir L. Jones sees reason
to apprehend.
But when he speaks of Faith as an essential qualification in our
present undertaking, it is necessary to enter a protest. Faith, I take
it, is belief in something which is insufficiently proved, or is perhaps
incapable of proof. In either sense Faith may legitimately find place,
not merely in the sphere of religion, but in our social activities and in
our conduct generally. No doubt in the widest sense we live by faith :
without faith action of any kind, and even life itself, would be impos
sible. But faith in a scientific inquiry is surely irrelevant or mischievous.
As a mere working hypothesis, spirits or odylic fluid or anything else
is legitimate ; the working hypothesis ceases to be legitimate so soon
as it becomes an article of faith. The previous example of the history
of mesmerism in this country will serve as an illustration. Correlative
to the want of sympathy and patience shown by men like Wakley and
Marshall Hall was the faith not according to knowledge displayed, if
not conspicuously by Elliotson himself, at any rate by many of his
followers. To us, looking back on that ridiculous and discreditable
chapter in the history of science, it is difficult to decide which party
was most to blame. At any rate, if the mesmerists had been content to
take their stand upon the facts, and to allow that the interpretation
was a question, not of dogma but of logic, it seems probable that their
opponents would have shown more tolerance and ultimately more
intelligence. The belief in spirits may or may not be better founded
than the belief in odylic fluids to which the mesmerists of 1840-50
challenged their contemporaries ; but neither fluids nor spirits will
advance their cause by employing Faith as their advocate in the court
of science. FRANK PODMORE.
OCT., 1901.] CoiTespondence. 125
IV.
The use of the word "faith" in Sir Lawrence Jones' letter seems to
be the point which challenges criticism. Mr. Podtnore has stated very
clearly and convincingly the danger that would arise if the Society as a
whole approached the problems which it hopes to solve in a spirit of
faith as well as with the patience and sympathy whose value is urged
by Sir Lawrence Jones. But I did not myself understand that this was
the contention of his letter. I take it rather that Sir Lawrence Jones
urges that the time has come for the Society to make full use of the special
qualities of certain of its members, those whom he happily describes as
"artists," and that among those qualities he places foremost that of
faith. All that he asks of the other members of the Society is that
they should remember that artists are easily scared away by suggestions
of fraud or credulity.
But if Sir Lawrence Jones is asking for more than this, and claiming
that the Society as such should possess the moral qualities of the artist
as well as the intellectual virtues appropriate to the man of science,
then I think we must agree with our President that " open-minded-
ness " is to be preferred to " faith."
MARGARET DE G. VERRALL.
V.
I notice that Sir Lawrence Jones does not urge the supplementary
virtues of faith, patience, and sympathy on the plain psychical
researcher, who is still seeking and has not yet reached any
conclusions, but only on " those who through the investigations of the
Society have arrived at the conviction that communications with dis-
carnate intelligences are possible." For these latter the advice is, I
venture to think, superfluous.
But if Sir Lawrence Jones means by inference to urge the desirability
of faith on those who so far have found the evidence for spirit
communication unconvincing, then his advice seems to me not unlike
that of the missionary who, anxious for the conversion of an atheist,
implores him to pray.
But I should like to hear a definition of " Faith." Does it
mean a general faith in the sincerity of mediums and clairvoyants,
professional or private 1 or a faith in the probability of survival
after death and of spirit communication ? or, vaguely, a faith that
" there's something in it " 1
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1901.
I fully realise that frequent opportunities for the investigation of
unprofessional mediums are being, and (it is no new thing) have been,
lost owing to a dislike of the Society's methods. But I doubt if there
be any way out of the dilemma. The spiritualist with his more sym
pathetic attitude may obtain better phenomena, but just in consequence
of his more sympathetic method he is not in a position to present
the evidence in such a manner as to bring conviction to the
outside world.
This is not the first time that our Society has been warned of
the dangers of its critical methods. We can but point to our past
record, and to Sir Lawrence Jones' own admission that, thanks to the
investigations of the Society and in spite of the rigour with which
the evidence has been handled, conviction has been brought to
some minds that communications with discarnate intelligences are
possible.
I would beg those who regard our more sceptical members as
wanting in patience and sympathy to remember that none desire more
ardently than these very sceptics to be able to believe. It is the
supreme and intimate importance of the subject that explains and
justifies their caution. Their longing to discover grounds for belief in
existence after death, their patience in what must appear to them
an almost hopeless quest, and the very fact that they do not take their
stand with the vast majority of men who will not trouble to investigate
at all, should be the best guarantee of their earnestness and of their
fundamental sympathy.
J. G. PlDDINGTON.
ON THE POSSIBILITY OF LOCAL ORGANISATIONS OF MEMBERS FOR
WORK IN PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
[The following letter has been received from an Associate of the
Society] :
Winterley House, near Crewe,
June 19th, 1901.
DEAR SIR,—With reference to the appeal of the Council to the
members for support, I beg to offer a suggestion for the consideration
of the Council.
I believe that there is nothing so likely to quicken the interest of the
members in the Society and its work as personal contact with one
another.
OCT., 1901.] Correspondence. 127
The meetings in London give this opportunity to such of the
members as reside there, but to most country members attendance is
practically impossible, inasmuch as they involve an expenditure of time
and money in a long railway journey and a night at a hotel.
I do not know the geographical distribution of the members, but I
think it is well worth the consideration of the Council as to whether
" district " meetings of members might not be held periodically in, say,
Edinburgh, Dublin, Manchester, Birmingham, and Bristol. Lancashire,
Yorkshire, Derbyshire, and Cheshire members, for example, might
well meet in Manchester, and speaking for myself I should certainly
attend such meetings.
My belief that by district associations or meetings the Society would
attain a much larger membership, and, what is of more importance,
they would secure a livelier interest of the members in the work of the
Society.—Yours faithfully, CHAS. H. PEDLEY.
[Mr. Pedley adds later] :
All I suggest is that the Society might in selected districts call one
meeting of local members, and then allow such members to decide
whether they will continue the meetings. If my letter were inserted in
the Journal and opinions of members invited thereon, you would
ascertain whether my proposal meets with any general acceptance.
[Any plan that would lead to active co-operation in the Society's
work on the part of members in different places is certainly worthy of
encouragement. Experience seems to show, however, that such plans
succeed better if initiated locally than if set on foot from headquarters.
Thus it might be possible for different groups of members to rouse
interest in psychical research and spread knowledge of it in their own
neighbourhood and among their own friends,—say, by small private
meetings for discussion and, in some cases, experiment.
We should be glad to receive communications from any group of
workers and also to print in the Journal any suggestions that seem
likely to be useful to members trying to carry on the work.—EDITOR.]
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1901.
SUBSCRIPTIONS AND DONATIONS TO THE FUNDS
OF THE SOCIETY.
THIRD LIST.
The follovring Contributions have been received or promised :
First and Second Lists (see JournaJs for
June, p. 92, and July, p. 112),
Professor A. P. Chattock, -
Miss Hastie, -
His Excellency J. O'Neill de Tyrone, -
Mr. Chester A. Snow,
Mr. Joseph J. S. Whitaker,
Annual
Subscriptions.
£83 13 0
1 1 0
Donations.
£103 7 0
— 500
— 10 0 0
— 20 0 0
220
£84 14 0 £140 9 0
The following Associates desire to become Members :
First List (see Journal for July, p. 112),
Mr. W. W. Baggally, ....
Col. P. W. Bannerman,
Mrs. Arthur Bulley, -
Miss Helen Dunham, - ...
Mr. G. Palmer Harding,
Miss C. Hartshorn, ..--
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.,
Miss A. R. Marten, .--.
Mrs. Nicolls, .....
Professor C. W. Selliu,
Miss E. Shove, M.B., -
Mr. Chester A. Snow, - ...
Increased
Subscription.
- £16 16 0
. 1 1 0
- 1 1 0
1 1 0
. 1 1 0
, 1 1 0
- 1 1 0
. 1 1 0
. 1 1 0
. 1 1 0
- 1 1 0
. 1 1 0
- 1 1 0
£29 8 0
No. CLXXXIIL—VOL. X. NOVEMBER, 1901.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE PACE
New Members and Associates, - - 120 Cases, 134
Meeting of the Council, - - - , 130 The Newspapers on Mrs. Piper, - - 142
Appointment of Organising Secretary, - 132
Mr. Langley on the Fire Walk. By
Correspondence :
On the Attitude of the Society for
Psychical Research towards the
Andrew Lang, 132 Spiritistic Hypothesis, - , - 144
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Astor, William Waldorf, Cliveden, near Maidenhead.
BALFOUR, MRS., 15 Hanover Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
BERRINGTON, Miss FLORENCE, Pant-y-Goitre, Abergavenny.
CLARKE, Miss ISABEL, 45 Tisbury Road, Hove, Sussex.
CORT VAN DER LINDEN, Miss G. B., Burger Ziekenhuis, Amsterdam
ELLIS, MRS. EDWARD, Shadingfield Hall, Wangford, R.S.O., Suffolk.
GOLDSTEIN, DR. JULIUS, 154 Adelaide Road, Hampstead, London, N.W.
HANNAY, HUGH B., 59 Aston New Town, Birmingham.
JONES, Miss LILIAN I., 7 Hampstead-hill Mansions, Downshire-hill, N.W.
KINGSFORD, ARTHUR B., M.R.C.S., 9 Burwood Place, London, W.
LEE, REV. A. H. E., 3 Cambrian Terrace, Holbeck Moor, Leeds.
Le Mesurier, C. J. R., 19 Perrymead Street, London, S.W.
MARCHANT, REV. JAMES, 30 High Street, Chatham.
MATURIN, MRS. F., 40 Warwick Street, High Street, Kensington, W.
MEEBOLD, ALFRED, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg.
Paul, Herbert G., 106 Wellington Place, Toronto, Ont., Canada.
Ping, William B., 2 Mayfield Avenue, Chiswick, W.
PIPER, JOHN E., LL.B., 16 Middleton Road, New Wandsworth, S.W.
RYVES, Miss EVANGELINE, 99 Hereford Road, Bavswater, London, W.
SMITH, ADOLPHE, 12 Crookham Road, Fulham, London, S.W.
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1901.
SWEETMAN, G. DRYSDALE, C.E., Windsor House, St. Thomas Street,
Ryde, Isle of Wight.
TELBIN, Miss, 4 West End Mansions, West End Lane, London, N.W.
VELSEN, DR. PROSPER VAN, 79 Rue St. Fra^ois, Brussels.
WAKEFIELD, H. G. R., Prince of Wales' Leinster Regiment, 17
Warwick Road, Maida Hill, London, W.
WHEATLEY, G. W., c/o Messrs. Grindlay and Co., 54 Parliament St., S.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ALEXANDER, E. P., Georgetown, S.C.
BANCROFT, DR. C. P., Supt. of N.H. Insane Asylum, Concord, N.H.
BURR, HENRY A., South Front Street, Wilmington, N.C.
CHASE, THORINGTON C., Manilla, Philippine Islands.
DOWD, Miss ALICE M., 47 Grove Street, Stamford, Conn.
EMERSON, MRS. N. WALDO, Powell Street, Brookline, Mass.
HARRIMAN, T. G., B.S., M.D., Hampton, Iowa.
Hartness, James, Springfield, Vermont.
HUBBELL, G. G., Room 12 Glenn Building, Cincinnati, Ohio.
LANAHAN, MRS. CHARLES, 1 209 St. Paul Street, Baltimore, Md.
Long, Theodore K., 4823 Kimbark Avenue, Chicago, 111.
MILLER, Miss FRANK, 830 St. Nicholas Avenue, New York, N.Y.
MORTON, JOSEPH, Caspar, Cal.
PARTRIDGE, Miss OLIVE H., 216 S. 31st Avenue, Omaha, Neb.
PERKINS, ALBERT S., 75 Milton Avenue, Hyde Park, Mass.
POPE, Miss MIRIAM, 30 Broadway, Beverley, Mass.
ROBINSON, NELSON L., 46 East 21st Street, New York, N.Y.
SALTER, GEO. F., c/o Actuary Prudential Insurance Co., Newark, N.J.
SMITH, MRS. WINFIELD, "The Martin," 10 Wisconsin St., Milwaukee, Wis.
WATKINS, MRS. P., Lovett, Mobley, Ga.
WILBUR, MRS. BENJAMIN F., P.O. Box, 65 Little Compton, R.I.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met at the Rooms of the Society, 19 Buckingham
Street, on October 25th. There were present, The President (Dr.
Lodge) in the chair, Professor W. F. Barrett, Sir William Crookes,
Hon. E. Feilding, Miss Alice Johnson, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F.
Podmore, Mr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. H. Sidgwick,
Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Sir A. K. Stephenson, Col. Le M. Taylor,
Dr. Chas. L. Tuckey, and Mrs. Verrall.
Nov., 1901.] Meeting of the Council. 131
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as correct.
Four new Members and twenty-one new Associates were elected.
The election of two new Members and nineteen new Associates of
the American Branch was recorded. Names and addresses are given
above.
A donation of £5, from Mr. Edward J. Thomson, in response to
the recent appeal by the Council, was reported.
The following were, at their request, transferred from the list of
Associates to that of Members : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Col. Bannerman,
Miss H. Dunham, Mr. G. Palmer Harding, Sir Lawrence J. Jones,
Bart., Mrs. Nicolls, and Mrs. Robert Ogilvie.
The Council recorded with regret the deaths of Lady Mount-Temple,
who had been a Member of the Society almost from its foundation, and
of Captain Ronald B. Miers, an Associate of the Society since 1898,
who lost his life in South Africa.
Some presents to the Library were on the table, for which a vote
of thanks was passed to the donors.
The Committee appointed to select an Organising Secretary reported
that, after careful consideration of the claims of various candidates for
the post, they were unanimous in recommending the election of Mr. N.
W. Thomas. After an interview with Mr. Thomas, and a full con
sideration of the matter, a resolution was unanimously carried, on the
proposition of Sir William Crookes, seconded by Professor Barrett, that
the recommendation of the Committee be approved, and Mr. Thomas
was accordingly elected. Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, and
Mr. J. G. Piddington were subsequently appointed a Committee to
carry on negotiations in regard to the future rooms of the Society. It
was also agreed that the tenancy of the present rooms should be
continued till Lady Day, 1902.
A letter was read from the Assistant-Secretary, briefly acknowledging
his sense of the kindness of the Council in the minute they passed
at the meeting in August, and thanking them for the liberality of
the resolution adopted, and also expressing the hope that he may
still be able in some ways to further the work of the Society.
It was agreed that a General Meeting be held on Friday, November
29th. It was left to the Hon. Secretary to fix later the place and hour
of the meeting, as, the Westminster Town Hall not being available for
the present, it would be necessary to engage some other hall to meet in.
The next Council Meeting was fixed for the same date, the place
and time being dependent on the arrangements made for the General
Meeting.
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1901.
APPOINTMENT OF AN ORGANISING SECRETARY.
As recorded in the report of the Council meeting held on October
25th, Mr. Northcote W. Thomas, M.A., has been appointed Organising
Secretary to the Society ; and thus one important item of the scheme
indicated in the recent address by the Council to Members has been
carried into effect.
Mr. Thomas matriculated at Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1887,
and there gained the Greaves Prize (English Historical Essay Prize),
in 1889, and took honours in the Historical Tripos of 1890. He
has been awarded the diploma of the Ecole Pratique (Paris) for a
dissertation on " La Survivance du Culte des Animaux au Pays de
Galles." He is a good French and German scholar and published in
1899, "The Naval Wordbook: Ein Marine-technisches Wortenbuch."
For the last twelve months he has acted as Assistant Secretary of the
Anthropological Institute, whose methods of research have many points
in common with our own.
MR. LANGLEY ON THE FIRE-WALK.
BY ANDREW LANG.
I DO not wish further to engage in controversy with Mr. Langley,
nor he with me. As to the calculations in his article in Nature
(August 22, 1901), I observed elsewhere that his most important figure
was " conceivably a misprint." It was a misprint.1 Without being
polemical I may note that the exhibition witnessed by Mr. Laugley
was that of a strolling performer; and that the religious rite of the
Fire-Walk (as I conceive a rite of First Fruits) is not indigenous
in Tahiti (where Papa-Ita2 was on tour), and was not performed in
the regular way. The furnace was one time, not seven times heated,
that is, did not burn for a seventh of the time usual in the religious
ceremony of Fiji. Unlike some other European observers, Mr. Langley
did not try the surface temperature of the stones with his own bare
feet. A recent observer, Mr. George Ely Hall, gives the following
account of his experience. I am obliged, for the present, to cite it as
quoted^by Miss Teuira Henry, in the Journal of the Polynesian Society,
Vol. x., No. 1, pp. 53-54, March, 1901. Miss Henry, a lady of
1 The account in Nature gave the specific gravity of the stone as 0'39 ; it should
have been 2 '39.
2 Mr. Lang tells us that there was a good account of Papa-Ita, with photographs,
in The World Wide Mai/azine for June, 1901.—ED.
Nov., 1901.] Mr Langley on the Fire Walk. 133
Polynesian extraction, communicated an excellent account of the
religious rite to the same journal, with the incantations (Vol. ii.,
p. 105).
Miss Teuira Henry, of Honolulu, sends us the following notes on the
above subject, which she first brought to the notice of the Society in her
paper published in Vol. ii., p. 105, under the title of " Te-umu-ti." Further
references to the performance will be found in Vol. viii., pp. 58 and 188.
The following is quoted from The Sunday Examiner Magazine, San
Francisco, of December last : " But now comes Mr. George Ely Hall, the
Turkish Consul-General, with an office in Parrott Buildings on prosy Market
Street, in unimaginative San Francisco, and tells how he, only a few weeks
ago, with the commander of a modern French cruiser, was enabled through
incantations and the fanning of sacred leaves, to walk bare-footed over
red-hot stones, and come out unhurt. But more than this, Consul Hall has
photographs to prove his story, and the ' apparatus ' cannot lie."
The French cruiser was the Protet, the commander was Commodore
Germinot, and the itmu-ti walking was done on the Island of Taha'a,
adjacent to Ra'iatea, Society Group. When all was made ready and the
great hot stones were flattened down, Mr. Hall says : " Then out came
the two sorcerers,1 each armed with a big bundle of leaves of the sacred ti.
They set np an incantation, a weird chant that started the tremulous little
quivers in the spinal marrow, and began beating the edge of the fire with
ti leaves. The people stopped all their laughter and chatter—there was no
sound save the chanting of the sorcerers, who moved slowly and with rapt
faces. I began to feel a strange impression in it all, and if one of the old
woodland gods had stepped out of the cover in response to the incantations,
I should not have felt great surprise.
"Then, still moaning and muttering, those two sorcerers started across
the hot stones with bare feet, beating ahead of them with long ti leaves.
There was no trace of hurry in their steps ; Milton's Satan, walking across
the burning marl, could hardly have been more majestic. Then some of the
natives, men and girls, prepared for the test. The sorcerers walked over
the stones ahead of them, beating the way with ti leaves.
"And then the interpreter announced that the Commodore and myself
would walk over the hot stones ; all the company shouted in great joy. We
stripped off our shoes, rolled up our duck trousers, and took our places
behind the chanting sorcerers, who went on ahead of us again beating the
stones with ti leaves. Then I wished I had not been so bold. All the heat
I ever experienced was nothing compared to that. My moustache and hair
curled up so that I could not get them straightened for days ; ray hands
seemed cooking ; in my ears was a feeling as if fires had been kindled
against the drums ; my eyeballs seemed to boil out the water that ran
from them. I felt like hurrying, but that would never have done in the
1 These men were of course Polynesians, natives of the Society Group. —EDITORS
[of the Journal of the Polynesian Society].
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1901.
presence of that company and with those two sorcerers marching on so
majestically ahead—and I would not have looked back for half the world,1
such a hold had the earnestness of those heathen priests taken on me. But
all this time my feet were cool, and we passed the ordeal unsinged and
unharmed. I cannot explain how it was that I was not blistered in walking
over the stones. There were scientists of some note among the officers of
the Protet, but they could not explain."
The paper says that it is a rule that no one may look back in walking
through the umu, as has also been stated by Colonel Gudgeon (Vol. viii.,
p. 59).
There is now here in Honolulu a fire-walker from Huahine Island of
the Society Group, named Papa-Ita, about sixty years of age, who has been
performing before large audiences. His incantation is much the same as.
the Ea'iatean (Vol. ii., p. 105), but he invokes two famous women in their
mythology, one of whom is the Vahine-nui-tahu-ra'i, invoked also by Tdpua
of Ra'iatea, and the other is Hina-nui-te-'a'ara (Great Hina-of-sweet-scented
herbs) who is no other than the famous sister of Ru the navigator and
upraiser of the sky—Hina of many titles, who is said to have stepped into
the moon and remained there watching over the earth ever since, for which
reason she is also called Hina-nui-te-araava, Great Hina-the-watcher.
The unm-ti walking has never been a religions ceremony amongst the
Tahitians. Papa-Ita says it dates from time immemorial, and that the
feat is a mystery to themselves. They regard the ti {Dracaena) leaf as
indispensable for the performance, because it constituted the clothing of the
two women above-named. They wore wreaths, garlands, and petticoats of
shredded ti leaves, and from them the habit has come down to these days.
It is thus obviously no peculiarity of the native feet that enables
them to walk unharmed. Europeans can achieve the adventure. But
Mr. Langley knew that before.
CASES.
L. 1126. Thought-transference by means of crystal-vision.
The following is a case of collective crystal-vision, in which there is
no indication that the picture seen was derived from any source
external to the minds of the percipients ; it seems rather to have been
a purely fancy scene, arising casually in the mind of one of them and
transferred, apparently by telepathy, to the mind of her companion.
The case is specially interesting on account of its bearing on the
general theory of collective hallucinations, since it indicates that the
sharing of a hallucination by two or more persons is no proof that the
hallucination had not a merely subjective origin ; and we print it
1 A companion of Colonel Gudgeon, looking back, was badly burned.—A. L.
Nov., 1901.] Gases. 135
partly for this reason and partly in the hope that it may stimulate
some of our readers to try experiments on the same line.
The account was sent to us through the kindness of Mr. Andrew
Lang, one of the percipients, Miss Grieve, being a niece of his ; it was
received on October llth, 1901. Miss Grieve writes :—
The Leaseowes, Halesowen, Worcestershire.
On June 24th C. and myself were reading anatomy together. C. took the
crystal ball and I looked over her shoulder—both of us merely wondering if
we should see the same thing. At the same moment the ball darkened, a white
cloud came over the whole, and three pyramids appeared, a large one in front,
the other two behind. Then a train of camels, some with riders, others being
led, passed from left to right and disappeared behind the large pyramid.
The vision lasted about one minute, and vanished simultaneously for both of
us. We each wrote down as the things appeared, so as to be accurate ; and
I had no thoughts of pyramids in my mind.
B. H. GRIEVE.
Miss Grieve's friend gives her own recollections of the vision as
follows :—
On the 24th day of June, 1901, B. G. and myself were looking up muscles
for an exam., and we had the crystal ball on the table.
We both looked into it casually, and I at least had no definite thoughts in
my mind, when simultaneously we saw some pyramids appear, one large one
in front and others behind, seemingly in a row, and coming round from the
left to right a train of camels appeared. On the first one was a man, whose
features I could not distinguish, as he was muffled up. Most of the other
camels had large packages on their backs and were led. The procession
passed slowly round the pyramid and then all vanished.
Another day I was looking into the ball by firelight hoping to see a
favourite collie dog that had died a year previously.
The ball turned all black at first, then a light spot appeared in the centre
and gradually spread nearly all over the ball. In the centre of this was a
true portrait of the dog,—perfectly life-like. The vision only remained a
few seconds.
CATHERINE COAD.
The second vision described by Miss Coad seems to show a special
faculty on her part of vivid visualisation ; it was, therefore, especially
important to ascertain whether any conversation took place between
her and Miss Grieve during the course of the vision, which might have
suggested to her the same scene. In reply to questions on this point,
and as to the notes made at the time, Miss Grieve writes to us :—
October nth, 1901.
... I am sorry to say I cannot send you the rough notes we made at the
time ; we left them here (at the college) last term and cannot find them
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1901.
anywhere now. . . . The descriptions were written immediately after
seeing the vision, but before either of us said anything, and we did not speak
while the vision lasted. . . .
BERTHA H. GRIEVE.
Mr. Andrew Lang gives in The Making of Religion, pp. 98-99, a case
in which " Miss Angus " and a friend of her saw closely similar visions
in the crystal. But from their accounts it does not seem certain that
verbal suggestion was altogether excluded, as the seers did not entirely
refrain from discussing the visions while they were seeing them.
Miss Grieve has sent us an account of another case in her own
experience, in which, after an examination in anatomy and before the
results came out, she saw in the crystal a list of names written on a
sheet of paper. The first three names were clear, but the rest illegible.
Shortly afterwards she dreamt that the same three names were at the
top of the list ; and when the actual list came out the three first names
appeared as in her dream. But as there were only ten candidates
altogether, of whom Miss Grieve herself was one, she does not, of
course, attribute any importance to this vision.
P. 273. Apparition.
In the following case of premonition, the warning of approaching
trouble may possibly have been received from a discarnate spirit—
perhaps from the father of the percipient—but it will be seen that there
is no direct evidence of this. On the other hand, the circumstances point
strongly to the explanation that the warning emanated from the
subliminal self of the percipient, which may have been aware of the
inflammation, which was probably already present, though the results of
it were not consciously felt until the following day. The fact of the
illness following so quickly on the impression of course bears out this
interpretation.
The account came to us through the American Branch of the Society,
having been sent to Dr. Hodgson by Dr. M. J. Savage, who received it
from the writer, Mrs. Meredith, of The Lilacs, Cedarhurst, Long
Island. The account was undated, but the postmark on the envelope
addressed to Dr. Savage was May 25th, 1901. Mrs. Meredith wrote as
follows :
On Tuesday morning, the twenty-fourth of April, 1900, my son, Edward
Howard Dunning, awakened me at about seven o'clock. He seemed much
troubled and spoke in a very deliberate and serious manner. He said :
" Mother, I'm afraid something terrible is going to happen ; last night a
Nov., 1901.] Cases. 137
spirit walked before me, and I know what it means. Something terrible is
going to happen. You will have to bear it."
I felt myself quite dumb with amazement. I tried to argue with him and
get a further explanation of what he had seen, or what he seemed to fancy
that he had seen. He persisted in repeating his fears, adding with ap
parent pity for me, " You will have to bear it."
Further details finally given me by him elicited these facts—or what he
claimed to be facts. The previous evening while walking up and down the
piazza of our home and about the grounds, smoking his usual after-dinner pipe,
he saw, or said that he saw, a spirit moving just before him as he walked. He
said that it remained just in front of him until he finally turned to enter the
door, when it remained standing by one of the pilLirs of the piazza. I asked
him if he recognised it, or I think I said, " Who was it ? " He answered, " I
could not recognise it." He seemed to speak deliberately and with an
evident desire to be accurate. I asked again, " Was it a man or a woman ? "
He once more answered, still with the same care, " I think it was a man."
He then added, " I understood its message." I asked, " Did it speak to
you?" For a moment he looked puzzled, then he slowly said, "Yes -but
perhaps not as you mean ' speak.' "
I tried to jest about the matter, but his strange seriousness filled my heart
with a nameless dread. His constant reply to all my jests and objections
was, " Mother, I saw it."
This occurred first at about seven in the morning. Within several hours
he complained of feeling ill, and our family physician was called in, but no
serious symptoms developed until the afternoon. That evening it was
decided that the case was a clearly defined one of appendicitis.
My son declared several times during the next two days the truth of what
he had told me just before the development of his illness. An operation was
performed on the second day. On the Sunday following, or on the 29th of
April, 19(X), he died at a half after eleven o'clock in the evening.
I have tried to exercise great care in recalling this occurrence, copying
notes made not long after his death, and in no detail or statement have I
exaggerated the facts. KATHARINE M. 0. MEREDITH.
The following corroborative notes were enclosed with Mrs. Meredith's
account. From Dr. Pershing :
Lawrence, L. 1.
I was the physician who attended the patient referred to. He showed no
symptoms of delirium until several days after the operation, and was entirely
clear in his mind, until then. The facts here stated were related to me by
Mrs. Meredith about the time of his death.
EDWARD H. PERSHING, M.I).
From Mrs. Louis Neilson, of Far Rockaway, Long Island :
The occurrence here related was told to me by the boy's mother before his
death. A. P. R. NBII.SUN.
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1901.
From Mrs. Peter B. Olney, of Lawrence, Long Island :
The occurrence here related was also told rue by Mrs. Meredith before her
son's death. MARY S. OLNEY.
From Mrs. M'Ferson Kennedy, of Cedarhurst, Long Island :
Theae facts were related to me by Mrs. Meredith.
ESTHER W. KENNEDY.
From Mrs. Meredith's sons :
We knew of the occurrence spoken of by our mother, before the death of
our brother. HAKOLD W. DUNNING.
R. C. DUNNING.
In answer to enquiries from Dr. Hodgson about the account, Mrs.
Meredith wrote to him as follows :
The Lilacs, Cedarhurst, L. I.,
June llth, 1901.
... It was written— or rather copied—in May of the present year. The
origiual notes, however, were made last summer—a year ago—soon after the
death of my son in April of 1900. As I recall it, the exact dates of his
illness and death are recorded in the account sent to you. . . .
You also ask if I object to the use of my name. Most certainly I do not,
as I consider the testimony of my son a sacred legacy to all those who are
seeking the truth in such matters.
My son had no previous belief in the existence of such phenomena. He
was what is called "normal" in the sense that physical health and sound
nerves seemed to characterize him. . . . KATHARINE M. C. MEREDITH.
Mrs. Meredith adds, in a letter dated August 22nd, 1901.
. . . When I asked him at the time if he had recognized the person he
saw, he replied, "I could not recognize him." But my son was only six
years old when his father died, so if they had met after so long a separation,
he would hardly have recognized him at once.
In regard to the second question as to whether he realized that anything
was the matter with him at the time, I asked him at once " Are you ill ? "
And he replied, " No—not ill—but feel as if I might be coming down with
the grippe." No pain or actual illness developed until about three hours
later, when he looked at me with a peculiar expression and said, "Mother,
I'm getting such a pain in my side !"
I have often thought that whoever he saw, it must have been some one
who inspired no terror or even great awe, as he showed no fear or worry at
any time, but seemed simply to accept the message gravely and with dignity.
About a week before that he said to me one morning that no one could have
bad a happier life than he had had, and added that he had no fear of death.
He said, " Lots of people say that, but I mean it." A week later he proved
by his great courage and calmness in the midst of terrible suffering that he
had spoken the truth. He was himself until the last moment, and the
Nov., 1901.] Cases. 1 ot)
nurses said that aside from several brief intervals he, even at the last, had
no delirium. After he could not speak he heard the doctor tell me that he
thought he was unconscious. As an answer the boy made a great effort,
took me in his arms and clasped me close to his breast, trying 'at the same
time to kiss me. He was certainly unusually clear mentally until the last.
KATHARINE M. C. MEREDITH.
The following letters from Mrs. Meredith, addressed to Dr. Hodgson,
describe another occurrence in her family which is interesting in
connection with the foregoing :
June llth, 1901.
. . . Yes—in answer to your question as to whether there have been any
other experiences in our family. My daughter Hazel at the age of two
years, and almost immediately after the death of her father, claimed to see
him, and carried on a conversation with him one morning in the presence of
myself and the nurse, who, of course, could neither see nor hear, as the
child certainly seemed to do. . . . KATHARINE M. C. MEREDITH.
The next letter was received on July 2nd, 1901.
... As to the details concerning my daughter Hazel's conversation with
her father, I can give that quite briefly. I do not know where I could find
the nurse who was present. Her name was Mrs. Hankin, and I think she
has gone to Chicago. As it occurred so many years ago, and as I lost track
of her soon after, I fear I could never trace her. So I will tell you quite
simply what occurred.
When my daughter was about two years old her father, who was devoted
to her, died. Two months after his death, the child was sitting on the bed
in the room which had been his, playing with some toys. The nurse and I
were packing his clothes away in some trunks. Suddenly the child began
talking and laughing with some one to us unseen. I asked her what she was
doing, and she looked innocently surprised as she replied, " Talking to my
papa" I asked, "Where is papa?" She replied, as if astonished, "Here."
I said, " Papa is not here." She insisted that he was, and pointed at him, as
she saw him at the bedside, with her finger. Then she said, " Now mij
papa's gone away '. " Then added with burst of laughter, " My papa wore a
funny dress—all white .' "
She then went on playing with her toys as if nothing had happened. She
knew nothing of her father's death, had been away from home at the time,
and had merely been told that her father had "gone to heaven," which
meant nothing to her, as she was too young to understand.
Of course, we thought it curious at the time, and spoke of it in our family
merely as an occurrence which was difficult to explain. The nurse alone
insisted tliat the child really saw what she claimed to see.
Now—after the experiences of the past year—I regard the matter from a
different standpoint.
Of course, as this occurred fourteen years ago, and no notes were made of
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1901.
it at the time by me, it is possible that I have not word for word used the
exact language used at the time by the child. But it must have been very
much as I have given it, and the main fact is absolutely true. . . .
KATHARINE M. C. MEREDITH.
L. 1127. Dream.
The evidence in the following case of a veridical dream has been
carefully collected by Dr. H. W. M'Connel, of Matlaske Hall, Norwich,
an Associate of the Society. The principal witnesses in the case are
all well known to Dr. M'Connel. Their names have been given us in
confidence, and all the original letters relating to the case were shown
to us.
Dr. M'Connel drew up the following statement as the result of a
conversation with Miss F. (the dreamer), and afterwards showed it to
her to make sure of its correctness :—
On February 26th, 1900, I dreamt that my brother passed sixth in an
examination for the Naval Medical. The letter with result came from the
Admiralty on the 28th, and the dream was found correct. The examination
was from February 19th-23rd, and I knew that my brother was up in
London at it. I was in Edinburgh, and I had no reason for supposing that
he might come out any special place. The dream was between 2 a.m. and
8 a.m. on the night of the 26th, and my brother only returned from London
on March 1st. I attached no importance at the time to the number in the
dream, only feeling depressed at having dreamt he had passed at all, as
dreams go very contrary ; but fortunately I told the dream that same
morning to my brother and sister and a friend. A. C. F.
In reply to questions from Dr. M'Connel, Miss F. writes to him :—
January 10th, 1901.
(1) R. was up for Naval Medical Service exam.
(2) I had no reason for thinking he might come out any special place.
(3) The exam, lasted Feb. 19th-23rd. I dreamt my dream night of 26th,
and the letter with result from the Admiralty came on 28th.
(4) Possibly might have been when marks were being added up, but not
probable—dream occurring between 2 and 8 a.m.
(5) R. only returned from London, March 1st. . . . As to how I dreamt of
his passing, I only knew I had had the list in my hand with R.'s name 6th.
. . . Fortunately I told the dream, number ami all, that came morning both
to F. and C. and a friend. I had a post-card from the latter afterwards
saying how very "spooky" it was. . . .
Nov., 1901.] Cases. 141
Miss F.'s brother and sister, F. and C., confirm her account as
follows :—
Jan. 21st, 1901.
I remember A. told me she had dreamt R. had passed 6th in his exam.,
which afterwards proved correct. F. H. F.
I can also bear testimony as above. C. F.
The following extracts from later letters written by Miss F. give
further details :—
R. did not know the result till I wired it to him on 28th. I am quite sure
I don't know any of the examiners. ...
I had no idea of the number of candidates. I knew nothing of the other
candidates. R. heard the result when I wired it to him after getting
Admiralty letter.
On looking up R.'s letters, I found his post-card written on the 28th,
saying, "I got your wire this morning. I suppose it is so far satisfactory,"
and mentioning the fact that he had dined with a friend the previous night,
27th. So I wrote and asked her if she chanced to remember whether R.
knew his fate or not the night he dined, and she answers that she distinctly
remembers that he was waiting then to hear the result.
The candidate in question (R.) could not remember the exact dates
of the events, and as he was away on a cruise, no direct statements
could be obtained from him. But the letter just quoted, and the
official statements which follow, seem to make it clear that he could
not have known the result of the examination at the time of his sister's
dream, and that therefore, if she obtained the information telepathically,
it could only have been from one of the examiners.
The letters of the officials to Dr. M'Connel, in reply to his inquiries,
are as follows :—
ADMIRALTY.
July 2nd, 1901.
DEAR SIR,—In reply to your letter of yesterday, as far as is known in this
department, the result of the examination could not have been known
outside before it was communicated here on Feb. 27th. The candidate in
question would be the only one to say whether he obtained it, apart from the
ilreara, before he received the letter from this department.—Yours very
truly, .
The gentleman who was acting as secretary to the Board of
Examiners writes :—
July 2nd, 1901.
DEAR SIR,—The information which Mr. [of the Admiralty] lias given
you enables me to say positively that the meeting of the examiners took place
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1901.
on the evening of Feb. 26tli.—After determining the order of the candidates
by numbers, the names (which till then are kept in a sealed envelope) would
be added to the list.—This would be at about 7 o'clock p.m. on the 26th Feb.
The list thus made up would be in my custody till Feb. 27th morning, when
I personally communicated it to the Admiralty. There is no possibility of
the result being known outside the circle of the examiners until after it has
been communicated to the Admiralty.—Yours faithfully, .
One of the examiners writes :—
Jid// 4th, [1901.]
DEAR SIR,—I am afraid I cannot help you much. The meeting of the
examin'ers at which the results of the examination were determined was held
at 5.30 on Monday, Feb. 26th, but whether the report was posted that
evening or not I cannot say, as, to the best of my recollection, Dr. S., who
acted on that occasion as Secretary to the Board of Examiners, took charge
of the papers. ... I know of no way in which candidates can know before
the Admiralty is informed.—Faithfully yours, .
The letter from the Admiralty announcing the result of the examina
tion was posted to the candidate's home address on February 27th, and
received in Edinburgh on the 28th.
Dr. M'Connel sent us a cutting from the Times of March 5th, 1900,
which gives a list of the candidates in the examination of February
19th and following days who had been granted commissions as
surgeons in the Royal Navy. Twenty names appear in the list, in
which " R.'s " is sixth.
In reply to later inquiries from Dr. M'Connel, the Secretary to the
Examiners says :—" I believe there were 28 candidates in the com
petition in February, 1900." If Miss F. had been aware of this fact,
the probability of her guessing her brother's place correctly would, of
course, have been one in 28. She states, however, that she had no
idea how many candidates there were, and presumably knew nothing
of her brother's chances. Thus, though it can hardly be stated that the
correspondence between the dream and the facts was decidedly beyond
what chance could have produced, it is certainly strongly suggestive of
clairvoyance or telepathy.
THE NEWSPAPERS ON MRS. PIPER.
Many of our readers will probably have seen the paragraphs in the
Daily Telegraph and Westminster Gazette of October 21st and 25th
Nov., 1901.] The Newspapers on Mrs. Piper. 143
and other papers, relating to the so-called " confession " of Mrs. Piper,
which appeared in the New York Herald, and may expect us to notice
them. It will have been observed that Mrs. Piper is not alleged to
have made any confession of fraud ; she appears merely to have stated
that in her view the knowledge shown in her trance utterances is
acquired through telepathy from the living and not through communi
cations from the dead.
In a letter in the Westminster Gazette of October 25th, a member of
our Council, Mr. E. N. Bennett, points out that this opinion can in no
sense be regarded as a " blow " to the S.P.R., which—as a Society—
is committed to no creed or theory, but simply attempts to aim
impartially at solutions of the problems presented to it. In our first
report on Mrs. Piper, the rival hypotheses of telepathy and spiritism
as explanations of the facts were clearly stated ; and differences of
opinion continue to exist on this matter among her investigators. Mrs.
Piper herself is probably in a less favourable position than these
investigators for forming a theory of the phenomena; but the
advocates of the spiritistic explanation can hardly object to her
cautiously worded description of the possible sources of her information,
as given in the New York Herald, namely :—"I never heard of anything
being said by myself during a trance which might not have been latent
in my own mind, or in the mind of the person in charge of the
sitting, or in the mind of the person trying to get communication
with some one in another state of existence, or of some companion
present with such a person, or in the mind of some absent person
alive somewhere else in the world." But as Mrs. Piper is no better
judge than any other reader of the published reports of sittings with
her, the question whether supernormal knowledge is communicated to
her from the living or from the dead remains exactly where it was
before her "confession."
We may observe that the statement of the newspaper paragraph,
that Mrs. Piper " announces her withdrawal from the Society," appears
to be meaningless, since she has never been a member of it. It is also
reported that she has determined to give up her sittings, but this,
according to the newspapers, appears not to be believed by Dr.
Hodgson. We have at present heard nothing but what has appeared
in the papers on the matter.
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1901.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor in not responsible for opinions expressed by Correspondents.']
ON THE ATTITUDE OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
TOWARDS THE SPIRITISTIC HYPOTHESIS.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL or THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
I HAVE read with interest Sir Lawrence Jones' protest (if that is not
too strong a word) against the change which he seems to fear is
taking place in the treatment of "Artists" by the Society.
I do not know if I am assuming too much if I include myself
among those who "have a special aptitude for the artistic side of
our work." If, however, my claim be allowed, I should like to say
that, so far as I am concerned, I have never met with anything,
either before or since Mr. Myers' death, but patient and sympathetic
treatment from the " scientists."
Sir Lawrence Jones says, " Artists are a tender folk and easily
scared away by suggestions of fraud or even of credulity." I do not
see how any investigation worth the name can be made unless the
investigators are free to approach the problem from any reasonable
standpoint. And in view of the large amount of fraud which
admittedly enters into the class of phenomena with which the Society
is concerned, I should consider it unreasonable if the evidence were
not submitted to the severest tests, even should these involve "sug
gestions of fraud or even of credulity." And such a process ought
to be beneficial not only to the investigators but also to the "Artists."
"Artists" have a greater right to feel annoyance when statements
made by them in trance have been deprived of their proper evidential
value through laxity in the conditions, than to complain of the severity
of methods through which alone a conviction of the genuineness of
their phenomena can be brought to the minds of sceptics, who after
all form the great majority of mankind.
ROSALIE THOMPSON.
OCTOBER SOrn, 1901.
No. CLXXXIV.—VOL. X. DECEMBER, 1901.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE PAGE
New Members and Associates, - - 145
Meeting of the Council, - 146
General Meeting, 147
Proposed Experiments in Thought,
transference, 140
The Newspapers on Mrs. Piper, - - 150
Obituary : L&ra Marillier, - - , 152
Fire-Walking in Mauritius, - - - 154
Correspondence: Faith, - 155
Supplementary Library Catalogue, - 159
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Bennett, Arthur G., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., St. Ann's Hill, Cork.
M'DOUGALL, WILLIAM, M.S., M.B., Weald Mount, Haslemere.
METCALFE, REV. F. W., H.M.S. "Diana," Mediterranean Squadron.
ROUPNEVSKY, MME. SOPHI, Moscow, Russia.
SAUNDERS, REV. G. W. ST. GEORGE, M.A., 37 Montpelier Crescent,
Brighton.
SCATCHERD, Miss F. R., Ringmore House, Quarry Road, Hastings.
STURGE, Miss M. CARTA, 96 Sloane Street, London, S.W.
TATE, MRS. W. J., Redcroft, Branksome Chine, Bournemouth.
Thomas, J. Whitridge, 68 Upper Church Street, Oswestry.
Thomas, Northcote W., M.A., 19 Buckingham Street, Adelphi,
London, W.C.
Vincent, Wm. James, M.B., B.S., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.F., South York
shire Asylum, Wadsley, Sheffield.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BLAKE, MRS. S. F., 2413 Bayless Avenue, St. Anthony Park, Minn.
BROOKS, MRS. A. S., 31 South 8th Street, Minneapolis, Minn.
CHANDLER, ELWYN W., 207 S. Main Street, Rockford, 111.
CRAWFORD, MRS. ANDREW, 109 Pine Grove Avenue, Lake View,
Chicago, 111.
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1901.
FLY, DR. J. J., Pulleys Mill, 111.
HARRIS, Miss HANNAH G., Pomfret, Conn.
MARSCHNAR, REV. HARRY, 636 Eagle Avenue, New York, N.Y.
M'BEATH, J. D., 176 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.
OLMSTED, PROFESSOR E. W., 730 University Avenue, Ithaca, N.Y.
PORTER, H. F. J., Bethlehem Steel Co., 100 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
SPROULL, Miss KATE C., Helena, Ark.
STRONG, MRS. W. W., 528 Park Avenue, Kenosha, Wis.
THOMPSON, ROBERT J., 1604 Wellington Avenue, Chicago, 111.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met in a room at St. James' Hall, Regent Street, on
November 29th. There were present, The President (Dr. Lodge), who
took the chair on his arrival, a few minutes after the meeting had been
opened by Sir William Crookes, Miss Alice Johnson, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur
Smith, Col. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, and Mrs. Verrall.
The Organising Secretary, Mr. N. W. Thomas, was also present.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Four new Members and seven new Associates were elected. The
election of thirteen new Associates of the American Branch was re
corded. Names and addresses are given above.
A donation of £5 from the Rev. Maxwell H. Close, in response to
the recent appeal by the Council, was reported.
Mr. H. A. W. Candler and Mr. Harold A. Auden were, at their
request, transferred from the list of Associates to that of Members. At
the request of Miss C. Hartshorn, it was agreed to transfer her name at
the end of the year to the list of Associates of the American Branch.
The Council recorded with regret the death of Professor Sabatier,
a Corresponding Member of the Society, and of Mr. E. Badelier, an
Associate of the Society who resided in India.
The resignation of two Members and four Associates, who desired
to terminate their connection with the Society at the end of the year,
was accepted.
Some presents to the library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donors.
The names of the Members of Council who retire by rotation at the
DEC., 1901.] Meeting of the Council. 147
end of the year were read over. The Assistant-Secretary was desired
to send out the necessary notices for the Annual General Meeting of
the Members of the Society, which it was agreed to hold on Friday,
January 31st, 1902. It was left to the Hon. Secretary to fix later the
place and hour of the meeting.
The resignation of Dr. A. Wallace as a Member of the Council was
accepted with regret.
The Committee appointed to carry on negotiations in regard to future
rooms of the Society reported that their negotiations were continuing,
but that no definite proposal could be submitted to the Council at
present.
Various other matters having been discussed, the Council agreed that
its next meeting should be on Friday, January 31st, 1902, and that a
General Meeting should be held on the same day, the place and hour
being dependent on the arrangements made for the Annual General
Meeting of the Members of the Society.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 115th General Meeting of the Society was held in the Banqueting
Hall, St. James' Restaurant, on Friday, November 29th, at 4 p.m.—
the President, DR. LODGE, in the chair.
A paper, communicated by MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON, entitled "A
Record of Two Sittings with Mrs. Thompson," which it is intended to
publish in the forthcoming Part of the Proceedings, was read by Mr.
Piddington and Mr. N. W. Thomas. The sitter concerned was called
in the paper by the pseudonym of Mr. J. 0. Wilson. He had brought
to the sittings some objects belonging to a lady recently deceased, and
the communications of "Nelly" (Mrs. Thompson's "control")—which
were partly relevant and partly irrelevant—chiefly concerned this lady
and some of her relations.
SIR LAWRENCE JONES enquired how Mrs. Thompson's control
." Nelly " communicated with her.
MR. PIDDINGTON explained that Mrs. Thompson sometimes goes
into trance spontaneously at her own home, and that her utterances are
then reported to her by her husband or some other person present
in the room.
MR, ADOLPHE SMITH enquired further as to the origin of the
.control of "Nelly," and expressed the view that the trivial nature
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1901.
of the communications made in Mr. Wilson's sittings tended to show
that they were mere examples of clairvoyance.
MR. PIDDINGTON said that Mrs. Thompson had informed him that
her trances had developed quite spontaneously, and that they had gone
on for five years before she had ever met a spiritualist or had any con
nection with spiritualism. Her first control was not "Nelly," but
" Mrs. Cartwright," a deceased schoolmistress.
MR. F. W. THURSTAN explained the circumstances under which the
" Nelly " control first appeared. Mr. and Mrs. Thompson were at his
rooms, where he was holding "development classes." Soon after Mrs.
Thompson came in, the trance developed quite unexpectedly, and
" Nelly " introduced herself with the remark " I'm Nelly." On a
subsequent occasion she reappeared and asked permission to speak, and
several times she stated facts which were unknown to Mrs. Thompson
in her normal state. Mr. Thurstan referred also to physical phenomena
which had occurred in Mrs. Thompson's presence. With regard to the
point raised by Mr. Adolphe Smith as to the triviality of " Nelly's "
communications, he observed that—as Professor Hyslop had pointed
out in his report on Mrs. Piper—such trivial details afforded stronger
evidence of personal identity than anything else.
The PRESIDENT emphatically endorsed this view. He went on to
speak of the need for further experiments in thought-transference, and
urged on members the desirability of attempting work of this kind in
furtherance of the general objects of the Society. He mentioned a
proposed weekly series of meetings of the Committee for Experiments,
a notice of which is printed below, and invited members who found
themselves successful in such experiments to aid in the study of the
subject by allowing the Committee to experiment with them. He
then referred to the recent newspaper reports of what had been
spoken of in some quarters as Mrs. Piper's " confession." This was
nothing more than an expression of opinion on her part that the
supernormal knowledge sometimes possessed by her when in trance
was due to telepathy from the living, and not to communications
from the dead. The newspapers had further alleged that she had
broken off her connection with the Society, and had determined to
give no more sittings. The President read a statement from Dr.
Hodgson showing that this was untrue. Mrs. Piper had already held
one sitting with him since the statement had appeared in the New York
Herald (which had originated the reports about her), and she had then
made arrangements for future sittings.
[A more detailed statement on this subject is printed below.]
Due., 1901.] Proposed Experiments in Thought-Transference. 149
PROPOSED EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-
TRANSFERENCE.
ALTHOUGH for several years past the Committee called originally the
Hypnotic Committee, and more recently the Committee for Experi
ments, have conducted experiments in thought-transference with many
different subjects, the results have not been either sufficiently sustained
or sufficiently in excess of chance to make them worth publication.
In short, the Committee have failed to repeat the success attained in
the series of experiments conducted at Brighton in 1889-1892 by
Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick and Mr. G. A. Smith (see Proceedings,
Vol. VI., p. 128, and Vol. VIII., p. 536). This want of success might
be held (though not, they think, with justice) to throw doubt on the
validity of the Brighton experiments. They believe, on the other
hand, that it is really due almost entirely to the difficulty they have
experienced in obtaining suitable subjects for experimentation. Their
subjects have been drawn for the most part from an unintelligent or
overworked class ; and while these proved suitable enough for simple
hypnotic experiments, it is not unlikely that their failure in experi
ments which seem to demand concentration of mind, and at least some
amount of intelligent interest, was due to fatigue or stupidity. Most
of them were irregular in their attendance ; some were not without
misgivings on the score of allowing themselves to be hypnotised :
and all were easily bored.
The Committee, however, feel that they cannot allow themselves to
.be discouraged from further efforts by the failure of experiments
conducted under unfavourable conditions. They are therefore anxious
to start as soon as possible a fresh series of experiments in thought-
transference ; and with this end in view, and in order to avoid having
recourse to clerks, waiters, and nondescript lads, they appeal to such
Members or Associates as may be good crystal-gazers or automatic writers
(that is, who, as a rule, see pictures when they look in a crystal, or
write automatically when they sit down with the intention of doing so),
and are living in or near London, to offer themselves as subjects for regular
experiment. In the case of the subjects that were selected for frequent
experiment by the Committee, the Society would be prepared to pay
whatever expenses were necessarily incurred by them in connection with
the experiments. The meetings would be small and private and would
be held weekly at the rooms of the Society, 19 Buckingham Street,
Adelphi, W.C. The dates and hours would be arranged to suit the
convenience of the persons concerned.
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1901.
Regularity and punctuality, and a readiness to submit to strict condi
tions, are essential.
Members who are willing to offer themselves as subjects are requested
to communicate with the Hon. Secretary,
J. G. PlDDINGTON, ESQ.,
87 Sloane Street,
London, S.W.
It is not proposed to introduce any hypnotic experiments
into the present series.
THE NEWSPAPERS ON MRS. PIPER.
SINCE issuing the November Journal, a copy of the article on Mrs.
Piper published in the New York Herald of October 20th has reached
us. The first part of this is signed by Mrs. Piper herself, the second
part consisting of comments and opinions on her case. The article
begins by saying that Mrs. Piper intends to give up the work she has
been doing for the S.P.R., in order to devote herself to other and more
congenial pursuits ; and it goes on to say that it was on account of her
own desire to understand the phenomena that she first allowed her
trances to be investigated and placed herself in the hands of scientific
men with the understanding that she should submit to any tests they
chose to apply ; also that now, after fourteen years' work, the subject
not being yet cleared up, she feels disinclined for further investigation.
As to her own view of the phenomena, she says :—" The theory of
telepathy strongly appeals to me as the most plausible and genuinely
scientific solution of the problem. ... I do not believe that spirits of
the dead have spoken through me when I have been in the trance
state. ... It may be that they have, but I do not affirm it." 1
Dr. Hodgson has sent us cuttings from two Boston papers bearing on
this report. The Boston Advertiser of October 25th, 1901, says that
'The Editor of Light states in his issue of November 30th, 1901, that he
has received a letter from Mrs. Piper in which she "explains that, having
heard that the New York Herald people had, in a preliminary announcement,
advertised her name with the word 'Confession' above it, she at once forbade
the publication of the article altogether. The result was that she received a
telegram from the Herald counselling her to ' sleep calm ! ' and, assuring her
that the word 'Confession' had only been used in the way of 'advertising
smartness' and would not appear in the Herald article. This telegram Mrs.
Piper has sent for our inspection and we have it still."
DEC., 1901.] The Newspapers on Mrs. Piper. 151
Mrs. Piper dictated the following statement to a representative of
theirs :—
I did not make any such statement as that published in the New York
Herald [quoted above] to the effect that spirits of the departed do not
control me. . . . My opinion is to-day as it was eighteen years ago. Spirits
of the departed may have controlled me and they may not. I confess that
I do not know. I have not changed. ... I make no change in my relations.
The Boston Journal of October 29th, 1901, says :—
Mrs. Piper will continue her sittings according to agreement, and the
relations that have existed between her and the Society will not be broken.
Yesterday Dr. Hodgson saw Mrs. Piper and talked with her about the state
ment which appeared in the New Fork Herald. Afterwards both, by
appointment, were seen by a Boston Journal reporter, and their statements
agree as to future relations. Dr. Hodgson feels that the incident is closed,
and Mrs. Piper, as will be seen from her statement, holds the same view.
The paper proceeds to give parallel statements by Mrs. Piper and
Dr. Hodgson, Mrs. Piper saying l :—
Regardless of whatever may have been said, I will go on with the present
arrangement with Dr. Hodgson and the Society, as formerly.
I do not deny that I said something to the effect that I would never hold
another sitting with Mr. Hodgson, and that I would die first, to a New York
Herald reporter last summer, when I gave the original interview ; but last
week I did not see a representative of the New York Herald, and did not
reply to Dr. Hodgson. That is a misrepresentation, and furthermore, I am
not responsible for many of the former statements that the Herald published
as coming from me.
The paper continues :—
The next sitting, according to arrangements, will not be held for about
three months. Mrs. Piper still holds and expresses her view that the
manifestations are not spiritistic. . . . She feels that the telepathic theory
is more probable than the spiritistic hypothesis. . . . There is no doubt
of Mrs. Piper's perfect honesty in the matter. She is unwilling to have it
1 The absurdity of ordinary newspaper reports on this subject may be illustrated
by the following extract from the Liverpool Daily Post, of November 15th, 1901 :
" Mrs. Piper'K Latest.—The American spiritualists have proved as hard to con
vince as we conjectured they would when Mrs. Piper made her confession.
The Secretary of the American Psychical Research Society has, it seems, been
explaining to cultured Boston that Mrs. Piper's statement represented 'simply
a transient mood,' and he is apparently prepared to maintain her supernatural
powers as firmly as ever. The worst of it is, however, that Mrs. Piper altogether
refuses to accept this suggestion, and stands by her confession. But even when
the prophet declares his own miracles shams, there will always be some people
who will refuse to believe him."
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1901.
appear that she believes herself capable of communicating with discarnate
spirits, but she admits that the mysterious power is not easily understood or
accounted for.
Now, comparing all these statements together, it will be seen that,
neither in the original report in the Herald nor anywhere else has any
revelation been made which could in any way affect the evidential value
of Mrs. Piper's trance phenomena. Her honesty is not in question,
and the Herald speaks of her throughout in highly laudatory terms. It
represents her as holding a certain view of the phenomena—a view
which is really incompatible with the supposition that they are fraudu
lent. Mrs. Piper's later utterances show that, although the Herald's
report was garbled and postdated, she still expresses a preference for
the telepathic over the spiritistic hypothesis. It is well known to all
members of the S.P.R., and it is hardly necessary for us to repeat, that
these two hypotheses have always been kept before the minds of those
investigators who have sat with her ; and since little value would be
attached to her opinion in favour of the spiritistic hypothesis, it cannot
fairly be urged that her opinion on the other side should weigh with us.
Mrs. Piper, in fact, as we have already said, is not in a more favourable,
but even in a less favourable, position for forming an opinion than those
who sit with her, since she does not afterwards remember what passes
while she is in trance.
On the other hand, the allegation of the Herald that Mrs. Piper had
determined finally to discontinue her sittings is shown to be unfounded.
The sittings had been suspended for some months owing to her health ;
but one was held, as Dr. Hodgson informs us, on October 21st (the day
after the article in the Herald appeared), and it was then arranged to
resume them after an interval of three months.
To sum up, it is clear that Mrs. Piper has neither said nor done
anything to diminish the value of evidence obtained through her, that
the report in the New York Herald was misleading, and that her rela
tions with the Society and Dr. Hodgson continue on the same footing
as before.
OBITUARY.
LioN MARILLIER.
IN my friend Leon Marillier the world has lost a man of singularly
varied talents and extraordinary activity of mind. An "agrege de
philosophic," he had already chosen for his own the domain of psycho
logy and ethics when the lectures of the late M. Sabatier drew his
DEC., 1901.] Obituary. 153
attention to the importance of the psychology of religion. From 1889
onwards he lectured at the Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes on the
religions of uncivilised peoples, and it was after a lecture at the
Sorbonne that I first made his acquaintance. In 1896 he became one
of the directors of the Revue de I'Histoire des Religions, and in the pages
of this review is to be found some of his most brilliant work. His
genius was essentially analytic, and the consciousness of this led him to
devote to lecturing and reviewing the time which some of his friends
would like to have seen employed in the production of works of
synthesis. With the exception of his article on religion in La Grande
Encyclopedic and one or two smaller treatises he never put forward his
views on primitive religion save in the form of a criticism of the work
of others.
Of his psychical research work I feel myself less qualified to speak.
That he was eminently fitted for this or any other work which
demanded sane judgment and exact methods is indisputable. To his
acquaintance with psychology he added a knowledge of the exact
methods of biology, to which his contributions to the Annie Biologique
bear eloquent testimony; he had gained under Sabatier a power of
textual criticism which made him a veritable historian ; he was
endowed with a well-balanced judgment and a retentive memory, and
of the perfect fairness of his mind no better proof could be given than
that at the outset of his career, though not a Protestant, he lectured at
the Protestant Faculty of Theology. His contributions to Psychical
Research were but few. An account by him of " Apparitions of the
Virgin in Dordogne," a sort of epidemic of hallucinations that took
place in the Dordogne in 1889, appeared in Vol. VII. of the Proceedings.
He was for a time secretary of the S.P.R. for France, and as such had
charge of the Census of Hallucinations in that country, and he shared
with others the task of translating into French Phantasms of the Living.
To his work in biology, psychology, and the history of religion he
added the functions of a lay missionary in the cause of social reform ;
as an apostle of morality and justice he delivered many hundreds of
lectures ; the numerous committees on which he sat never appealed to
him in vain.
Leon Marillier fell a victim in the thirty-eighth year of his age
to an illness contracted in consequence of a boating accident on the
coast of Brittany last August, in which his wife and thirteen of her
relatives lost their lives. In him has passed away an upright man, a
charming friend, 'and a conscientious seeker after truth.
N. W. THOMAS.
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1901.
FIRE-WALKING IN MAURITIUS.
The following account has been sent to us by an Associate of the
Society, Mrs. G. S. Schwabe :
Royal Hospital, Chelsea, S.W.,
November 5th, 1901.
The following account of fire-walking, as still practised in Mauritius, may
interest some of your readers. The population of the island of Mauritius
consists almost entirely of coolies from India; some from the neighbourhood
of Calcutta and some from the Madras Presidency. It is the latter who
carry out the fire-walking ceremony, and although not countenanced by the
Government in India, in Mauritius it is carried out under the supervision of
the police, who see that order is kept, that no women take part in the
ceremony, and that children are not carried through by their fathers. I
was twice present at the ceremony, in 1896 and 1897 ; it takes place on the
1st of January in an enclosure belonging to a small temple at the village of
Rose-Hill. This day is always observed as a holiday, and a large crowd of
natives collects, while a certain number of Europeans look on from under
the shelter of a slight shed of palm branches. The ceremony takes place at
mid-day, and it then being midsummer, the heat is intense.
A wide shallow trench about a foot deep, twelve feet wide, and fifteen
yards long is prepared beforehand, and on it are placed large piles of wood
which, when I arrived on the last occasion, were still burning fiercely ; we
therefore had to wait till the piles had burnt down and became masses of
red-hot embers. Some men then came with long wooden rakes and raked
the embers until they were spread over the whole surface of the trench to a
depth of several inches. The radiant heat given out was so great that it
was almost unbearable where we stood at a distance of several yards from
the trench.
A young goat was then brought .to the edge of the trench, its head severed
with one stroke of a sword, and the body dragged swiftly round the furnace
as a sacrifice to the goddess Kali. This did not occupy more than a few
seconds, and the devotees at once advanced, led by the priest of the temple.
He, like the others, was entirely naked with the exception of wreaths of
flowers and leaves round neck and waist, and carried a kind of raised plateau
of flowers in his hands. He stepped boldly on the embers, walked slowly
from one end of the trench to the other, pausing once or twice to turn round
and round as in a dance, and having reached the other side, stood there
calmly awaiting the others, and holding the flowery erection above his
head, a fine and picturesque figure. He was closely followed by the other
devotees, some twelve in number, who crossed in turn ; two or three looked
as if wound up to the deed by religious frenzy, and one as if under the
influence of bhang or similar narcotic, but the majority retained their
ordinary aspect, and none showed signs of visible suffering. Two or three
women in yellow draperies rushed forward, but were seized by the police
and removed after a violent struggle. Just beyond the further edge of the
DEC., 1901.] Fire-Walking in Mauritius. 155
trench a small pool, or rather puddle, of water lay on the ground, and some,
but not all, walked through it on coming out of the trench.
I cannot offer any explanation, nor does it seem possible to understand,
even if the hardness of feet that are never shod is taken into consideration,
how it was that the thighs and stomachs of the men were not badly burnt
and blistered. I was assured by a gentleman that his own servant had
waited on him at dinner after walking through the fire in the afternoon.
It is nearly always done in fulfilment of a vow made to obtain the recovery
of some sick relation, and the natives assert that under these circumstances
the fire never hurts.
I regret that I cannot add the testimony of some medical or scientific
witness. I have written twice to Mauritius with this object but with no
result, but am now going to make a fresh attempt. I have heard it suggested
that the legs and feet were smeared with the juice of the aloe ; but there is
no proof of this, and it seems unlikely that this could resist the intense heat.
I noticed that the men who raked the embers had great difficulty in
approaching near enough to effect their object, although the rakes were
purposely of great length. The police magistrate is always present, and in
discussing it afterwards I never heard it suggested that the performance
was not genuine. I ought, perhaps, to add that no payment of any kind
was asked for or made. MARY J. S. SOHWABE.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinion* expressed by Correspondents.]
FAITH.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
MAY I venture to suggest that the exception taken, both by Principal Lodge
and Mr. Frank Podmore, to Sir Lawrence Jones' mention of Faith as part of
the necessary equipment for a progressing Psychic Besearcher, is probably
due to the fact that the word Faith has one meaning for Mr. Podmore
(perhaps also for Principal Lodge) and another meaning for Sir Lawrence
Jones ?
Mr. Podmore says frankly that he defines Faith as "belief in something
insufficiently proved or perhaps incapable of proof." This comes perilously
near the definition of the little boy who said, " Faith means believing what
you know isn't true ! "
At any rate, Faith would appear to be an undesirable possession for a
scientific man in the eyes of Mr. Podmore, and even our justly-esteemed
President seems to think the word has been in bad company, and may be
liable to misapprehension.
Surely this unfortunate idea arises from accepting the popular rather than
the true definition of this much maligned word. St. Paul's definition of Faith
is, I think, on the whole, more truly scientific than the definition of Mr.
Podmore. The former calls Faith the " evidence of things unseen." This is
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1901.
directly opposed to Mr. Podmore's idea that Faith and Evidence are mutually
exclusive.
I venture to suggest that the Faith of which Sir Lawrence Jones speaks
with appreciation and enthusiasm is not credulity, nor is it even entirely
covered by Principal Lodge's alternative suggestion of "open mindedness."
It includes this, but transcends it. I should say it was that attitude, not
only of the intellect but of the entire conscioiisness of man, which, accepting the
possibility of obtaining evidence of things unseen, is willing to grant the condi
tions deemed necessary for investigation of all supra-normal phenomena.
We allow a photographer to develop in a dark room when it is claimed as
a necessary condition ; we allow an experimental chemist the use of certain
temperatures, vessels, tubes, retorts, etc., which are necessary for his processes.
Why are we less willing to allow the necessity for suitable conditions for the
production of phenomena of a much finer and more subtle nature ? Partly
because we have not the Faith to believe in the possibility of such pheno
mena, and partly because the moment any one speaks of mental conditions
as affecting physical matter and physical effects, our thoughts fly at once to
charlatans and impostors. This is natural, but very deplorable from the •
scientific point of view—deplorable, because, until we can rise above these
unfortunate prejudices, our psychic science can only "advance" in a vicious
circle.
I suppose the sternest scientist is aware that some men and women can
blush 1 If emotion can affect physical matter thus far, is it not conceivable
that emotions and states of mind may affect matter in other ways also 1
There is nothing inherently absurd in such a supposition, when we see people
blushing, and fainting, and growing hot and growing cold, every day of our
lives, in response to mental emotions.
Every orator, every artist, every musician, knows that mental conditions
must be taken into account in the production of physical effects. And, after
all, these people are human beings, made of much the same kind of flesh and
blood as technical "scientists." They are equally capable of giving an
opinion within the limits of their own line in life.
I think Sir Lawrence Jones would only plead that "scientists" should
recognise that there is a plane of mind and thought in which we are all
dwelling even now, and which must be explored—if at all—by true scientists.
These must be willing to grant reasonable tentative suppositions as well as
reasonable tentative conditions, without credulity and without abating one jot
or tittle of their vigilance and judgment. They must be scientists who can
conceive the possibility of things unseen and also the possibility of ultimately
gaining (as the consequence of their "faith and patience and sympathy")
evidence of those things unseen.
The only exception that I take to Sir Lawrence Jones' letter lies in the
sentence, " Up to now the task we have been engaged on has been a scientific
one," which might seem to imply that as we get further on, we are bound to
be less scientific ! If this were so, it would be a poor compliment to our
researches and a still poorer compliment to our science !
DEC., 1901.] Correspondence. 157
It seems to be pretty generally taken for granted that scientific and in
tellectual virtues cannot flourish in the same soil with "artistic" and emotional
possibilities. If there were of necessity such a " great gulf fixed," I fear it
would mean death to our research, for the " artists " would not consent to be
led blindfold by the scientists, and most emphatically the latter would not
consent to be led anywhere or in any fashion by the "artists." Fortunately
we have proof in Mr. Myers and Dr. Hodgson that it is possible to combine
the critical and sympathetic qualities in the same individual. But I think
both these gentlemen would freely admit that their attitudes of mind, and
consequently their methods of research, underwent very considerable modifi
cation with increasing knowledge and experience. Also, I think, the con
clusions they arrived at were thanks to their individual moral courage and
mental elasticity rather than to the general working methods of the Society
as a whole.
If evidence of this were needed, we have it in the fact that, in spite of the
conspicuous advantages of over twenty years' association with the Society,
Mr. Podmore remains sceptical.
The S.P.R. has done some excellent detective work during the last twenty
years. It is perhaps a little in danger just now of thinking that it exists for
this negative work alone. It has toiled for many years in the admirable field
of sifting the tares from the wheat. Sir Lawrence Jones seems to think it
might now do a little planting on its own account in the way of advanced
experimental work, and this can only be done to any good purpose by an
exercise of that Faith which believes in the possibility of obtaining evidence
for " things unseen." If this be credulity, then let us cherish it as the
highest virtue, for it is that quality of Faith which has won for Science all
her victories in the past ! E. KATHARINE BATES.
[Miss Bates maintains that the scientific investigator must be " willing to
grant the conditions deemed necessary for investigation of all supra-normal
phenomena," as we allow a photographer or a chemist to work under what
ever conditions he finds necessary for his processes. No doubt some condi
tions are necessary for the production of supernormal phenomena, and if we
only knew what these conditions were, we should all be willing to admit
them in our investigations. But the reason why we allow the phptographer
or the chemist to choose his own conditions, and demur to the medium's
doing so, is that all photographers and all chemists agree as to what con
ditions are necessary in their case, and are in general able to explain the
necessity of them to any one who is sufficiently acquainted with the subject ;
while not only do different mediums differ from one another as to the
conditions which they allege to be necessary for their phenomena, but the
same medium at different times makes different requirements. Thus many
of D. D. Home's phenomena occurred in brightly lighted rooms ; the general
practice of physical mediums is to demand darkness ; some of Stainton
Moses' phenomena occurred in the dark,—others of apparently just the
same kind in the light. Eusapia Paladino at Cambridge refused any
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1901.
fastening ; the mediums described in Mrs. Sidgwick's " Personal Investiga
tion into the Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism" (Proceedings, Vol. IV.,
pp. 45-74), generally allowed themselves to be fastened (though not in a
manner completely satisfactory to the investigators). These mediums were
not always consistent in their view of what was possible or impossible
under the circumstances. Thus (loc. cit. p. 61), the medium Haxby appeared
at the opening of the cabinet, and with him what purported to be a
materialised form. "At the same time Joey [his control] spoke, having
previously informed us that it was impossible to do this while a spirit was
materialised." Again, Eglinton generally objected to sitters imposing their
own conditions to test the genuineness of his slate-writing, implying that
the " spirits " either could not or would not work under such circumstances
(see e.g., Journal, Vol. II., pp. 294 and 301). On another occasion, however,
the "spirits" admitted that such an attitude on the part of sitters was
not an insuperable obstacle (Journal, Vol. II., p. 324). The practical result
of all this is that in working with mediums, we may be obliged to allow
them to choose their own conditions, unless we can persuade them to submit
to ours ; but we cannot discover which conditions are really essential, unless
we are allowed to vary them, and it is impossible for us to attach any value
to results obtained under conditions which clearly admit of trickery.
On the other hand, in the case of the medium who has been subjected to
the most complete supervision and control—Mrs. Piper—better positive
results have been attained than in any other case on record. The advantage
of this control from the medium's point of view has been admirably
.expressed by Mrs. Thompson in a letter printed in the last Journal.
Miss Bates at the end of her letter expresses a fear that the negative side
of our work may become disproportionately large in comparison with the
constructive side. Our printed records of the last three years should be, we
think, sufficient to assuage this fear. Among them are : the second part of
Professor Barrett's monograph on the Divining Bod, embodying the results
of several years' laborious research ; Professor Hyslop's Report on Mrs.
Piper—one of the most exhaustive hitherto published ; Dr. Morton Prince's
paper on what is generally known as the most remarkable case of multiple
personality that has ever come to light ; and many minor discussions and
reviews of importance, some expository and some critical. The contents of
the Journal during the same period have chiefly consisted, as usual, of
individual cases of apparently supernormal phenomena,—printed as material
for study. EDITOR.]
THE Editor has been good enough to show me the above correspondence
with reference to Sir Lawrence Jones' use of the word " Faith," in a
sentence quoted from his letter in the October Journal : " he that comes
to the spirits must [have faith to] believe that they exist " ; upon which
Miss Bates truly says that the word " Faith " is ambiguous and may mean
very much or very little. The kind of faith connoted by the above
quotation was rightly defined by Mr. Podmore ; but I agree with Miss Bates
DEC., 1901.J Correspondence. 159
in holding that any such definition is quite inadequate to describe Faith in
its largest sense. She quotes with admiration the English version of St.
Paul's poetic definition that it is " the evidence of things unseen " ; but to
a word with such a meaning as that, no investigator into occult phenomena
could possibly object, for "evidence" is precisely what he is laboriously
seeking. Hence, since this is the ostensible foundation of Miss Bates'
communication, it is not surprising that there is much in her letter with
which every one can agree.
One word, however, as to her appeal for specified and fixed conditions
while examining phenomena.
The Editor truly points out that one great object in varying the conditions
is to ascertain which of them are really essential. It is bad experimentation
to limit one's self to a fixed and crystallised set of conditions. It is
appropriate to unintelligent repetition ; but it does not lead to discovery.
Taking once more the hackneyed illustration of the photographer ; it has
recently been stated by Professor Nipher of St. Louis, that under certain
exceptional conditions photographic plates can be successfully developed in
full daylight.1
Discoveries are made by departing from the traditional and the usual, and
seeing what happens. And, whether discoveries are made or not, this course
of procedure is in skilled hands more instructive than uniform adherence to
the beaten track of tradition.
No doubt Miss Bates will be able to accept this statement ; and thus, as
usually happens in reasonable discussion, apparent differences of opinion are
seen to resolve themselves into difference of emphasis and partial temporary
inattention to one side or other of the whole subject.
OLIVER LODGE.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Additions since the last List ("Journal" for December, 1900).
THE EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
" COSMIC CONSCIOUSNESS : a Study in the Evolution of the Human
Mind;" edited by Dr. Richard Maurice Bucke.2 Philadelphia, 1901.
JASTROW (Prof. J.). Fact and Fable in Psychology. Boston, U.S.A., 1901.
MASON (DR. OSGOOD). Hypnotism and Suggestion.3 New York, 1901.
MUNSTERBERG (PROF. HUGO). Psychologyand Life. Boston, U.S.A.,1899.
BINET (A.). La Suggestibility. Paris, 1900.
SALVERTE (EUSEBE). Des Sciences Occultes. 2nd edition.3 Paris, 1843.
KIESEWETTER (CARL). Geschichtedes neueren Occultismus. Leipzig, 1891.
1 Popular Science Monthly, May, 1901, page 108.
Presented by Dr. Hodgson. 'Presented by Col. Le M. Taylor.
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1901.
THE GENERAL LIBRARY.
CALKINS (MARY W.). An Introduction to Psychology.1 New York, 1901.
COLEGROVE (F. W., Ph.D., D.D.). Memory : An Inductive Study.1
London, 1901.
Cox (EDWARD W.). Spiritualism Answered by Science. London, 1872.
DENNIS (PREBENDARY, J. B.). The Subversion of Materialism.2
London, 1825.
DUNCAN (W. STEWART). Conscious Matter. London, 1881.
HOPKINS (ALBERT A ). Magic : Stage Illusions and Scientific Diversions,
etc. With an Introduction by Henry Ridgely Evans 3 London, 1 898.
HUBBELL (G. C.). Fact and Fancy in Spiritualism, Theosophy, and
Psychical Research.4 Cincinnati, 1901.
HUTCHINSON (HORACE G.). Dreams and their Meanings.1 London, 1901.
LANG (ANDREW). Magic Mirrors and Crystal Gazing. (The Monthly
Review, December, 1901.) London, 1901.
"LIGHT." Vol. for 1 900.° London, 1900
"LuciFER." Vols. III.—XIV.« London, 1889-1896.
MACGUEGOR (ALASTAIR M. B.). Second Sight. (Reprinted from the
Caledonian Medical Journal.)'1 Glasgow, 1897.
(Second series). (Reprinted from the Caledonian
Medical Journal.)4 Glasgow, 1901.
OLCOTT (CoL. H. S.). Old Diary Leaves. (Second series). London, 1900.
QUINCY (J. P.). The Limits of Reliable Memory. (Reprinted from
the Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society.)*
Cambridge, U.S.A., 1901.
Dreams as Factors in History. (Reprinted from the Proceedings
of the Massachusetts Historical Society.)* Cambridge, U.S.A., 1901.
'• SCEPTIC." An Exposition of Spiritualism. London, 1862.
SCHILLER (F. C. S.). Do Men Desire Immortality 1 (The Fortnightly
Review, September, 1901.) London, 1901.
SWEDENBORG (EMANUEL). Swedenborg and his Mission ; and Fragments
from his Diary. In vols. 1 and 11 of The Dawn. London, 1861-62.
THOMAS (J. W., F.I.C., F.C.S.). Intuitive Suggestion : a New Theory
of Evolution.4 London, 1901.
WHITING (LILIAN). The Spiritual Significance. London, 1900.
WOLFE (N. B., M.D.). Startling Facts in Modern Spiritualism.
Cincinnati, 1874.
FONTENAY (GuiLLAUME DE). A propos d'Eusapia Paladino : les
seances de Montfort 1'Amaury (25-28 Juillet, 1897). Pans, 1898.
BOHN (ERICH, DR. jur.). Der Fall Rothe.4 Breslau, 1901.
GAJ (DR. GUSTAV VON). Der Fall Erich Bohn." Jaska, 1901.
1 Presented by the Publishers. ' Presented by the London Spiritualist
- Presented by Mr. G. E. Dartnell. Alliance.
:l Presented by Mr. A. Marshall Box. 6 Presented by Miss Wingfield.
4 Presented by the Author.
No. CLXXXV.—VOL. X. JANUARY, 1902.'
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGl
Cases, - 161
Correspondence :
On some points in Professor Hyslop's Report on Mrs. Piper, - .... 172
Faith, 175
Notice, I76
CASES.
L. 1128. Dreams and impressions.
We give below an account, which was kindly obtained for us by Dr.
H. W. M'Connel, of Matlaske Hall, Norwich, of a series of apparently
telepathic incidents occurring in the experience of a single percipient,
Mrs. B. It will be seen that the evidential value of these incidents
varies a good deal ; some of them are corroborated, but not all, cor-
roboration being impossible in some cases owing to the impression not
having been mentioned before it was verified. Mrs. B. seems also to
have had some impressions which were merely subjective ; other cases,
again, taken alone, might be regarded as merely accidental coincidences.
The value of the narrative depends rather on the cumulative effect of
all the incidents taken together, for the total amount of correspondence
between Mrs. B.'s impressions and the facts seems too great to be
reasonably attributed to chance ; and it is interesting that so many
veridical impressions should have occurred to one percipient.
Mrs. B.'s original narrative was sent to us by Dr. M'Connel, to
whom Mrs. B. and her family are well known, and it was through his
efforts that such corroboration as is forthcoming has been obtained.
All the names of the witnesses have been given us in confidence, but we
are requested to print their initials only.
. The following is Mrs. B.'s account, which Dr. M'Connel tells us was
written about a year ago at his request :
TELEPATHIC EXPERIENCES.
(1) Dec. 3rd, 1900.—To begin with the last. On Saturday, August 19th
[really 18th] of this year, I felt very low-spirited about G., and had a strong
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1902.
idea that he was in danger [in China]. This was about or towards noon and
went on for some hours. I saw in a few days in the papers that there bad
been some disturbance on that date, and felt that he must have been in it.
I wrote and asked him, telling him my thoughts. His reply (sent to E.)
was that the only fighting he had seen was on 19th August—that there is
about ten hours' difference in time, which would make it night at Tiensin.
But all the same I believe I was reading his thoughts. He started on
the expedition at about 4 on Sunday morning, which was 19th August
at Tiensin.
(2) In, I think, Feb. 1889 (the dates can be verified by G.) G. went up for
his final examination at Woolwich. I was in Guernsey at the time, and on the
eve of the examination received a very depressed letter from G., telling me
not to expect Sappers, he was sure he would not pass out high enough.
Then I had a vivid dream that he passed out eighth and got into the
Engineers. I wrote to him, telling him " I dreamt you were ' 8th Sappers,'
and I expect it." In a few days or longer came his telegram, " I passed
eighth Sappers." When he came home we compared notes, and he said to
me, " You dreamt that at the very time the examiners were adding up the
marks—just as if you had been looking over their shoulders as they made
out the list."
I had previously dreamt the correct place G. came out in, at one of the
minor Woolwich examinations.
(3) Another curious dream was the following : G. went to Sierra Leone in
October, 1891, and I think it was in March, 1892, I dreamt one of those
vivid picture dreams that I could draw. I thought I was standing on the
banks of a tropical river, anxiously scanning a long boat, which slowly
approached down stream. I was looking for G., but could only see three
or four officers in kharki huddled up as if weary. Where was G. ? As the
boat was punted closer I got a great start—he was lying full length in the
bottom of the boat, with his eyes shut, and looked pale. The boat stopped
at my feet. G. opened his eyes, sprang out, and, catching me in his arms,
cried, " Don't be alarmed, dear mother, I'm as right as a trivet." When he
returned home and I began telling him my dream he stopped me. " Let me
ask you questions," he said ; " which way did the river run ? " " From left
to right," I answered, "and there was a kind of obstruction in the middle
with a tropical fern or something like a small tree growing there." "Yes,
yes, quite right," said G. ; " but what kind of boat was I in ? " "A very
long black boat, such as I have never seen, with a flat place at the end where
a black man stood, punting with a particularly long pole." "Yes, that is
exactly the description both of boat and punting, man and pole, a very long
one, I remember. Also, I had been up all night before taking the Stockade
town of Tambi, digging a well, so I was dead beat, and while the others slept
huddled about, I was the only one lying flat on the bottom of the boat,
sleeping like a log, and I only woke up to land."
(4) I seem to get warnings also of illness and death to any of the family
from a distance ;—knockings, or that peculiar sound of the irregular winding
JAN., 1902.] Cases. 163
up of a watch. It will stop, then go on fast, or slow, and pause again.1 I
cannot help being nervous now when I hear it. To begin with the last
instance. The night before E. [Mrs. B.'s daughter] returned from her visit
to you [Dr. M'Connel] in October—you will remember the date—I was sitting
alone by the fire reading when this curious, irregular kind of telegraph
ticking or winding began quite close to me. I said to myself, " It is nothing,
a spider perhaps ; I will not listen," and tried to read. But the noise at
once grew more insistent, and made me so nervous, it was only by an effort
I remained in the room. I looked at the clock—8.30 to 40. Next morning,
I think—but am not certain of exact hour—at 12.20 came a telegram marked
E. Opening it I found it was the cablegram from H. [the husband of E.],
saying he was invalided home. E. returned some hours late. I have never
told her of that noise, not liking to until H. was safe at home, because of
another occasion when I heard it before. If we could compare time we
may find either that the telegram was being written out at Pretoria or that
H. was thinking of sending it.
(5) That same winding or ticking noise I heard very distinctly early one
morning in March, 1896, at the head of my bed. I know now it was just as
my dear son.H. was taken ill in West Africa. I wish I had the exact date.
Some days, or perhaps a week, before I had a very vivid dream about him.
I told my dream at the time to Lady D. and her daughters, for I was staying
there. It was this. I thought I sat at a barrack table in the middle of an
Orderly Room, as if waiting. A young sergeant who was, and yet was not, H.
looked in at the door. " Where is H. ? " I cried, frightened, and springing up.
The answer, given with a smiling face, was, " Don't be alarmed ; they are
carrying him along all right. He has broken his leg. You cannot see him yet,
but you will by-and-bye." Then I awoke. I said to Lady D., " I do hope dear
H. is not ill, in any case I think that dream was sent to comfort me." She
answered gravely, " I shall not feel happy until you have your dear boy safe
back with you." He was taken ill while travelling with Sir F. C., the
Governor, and was left behind with the doctor. Being a little better and
very anxious to regain the Governor, to whom he was at the time acting
A.D.C., he started before he was fit. He was carried in his palanquin, but
even that was too much for him. He got much worse, and died at a small
place on the way, on the 4th April, 1896. When H. was a child of five at
Malta he had his leg broken ; hence the idea in the dream. I was at
Farnham on the day he died, Easter Eve, and between 11 and 12 a.m., as I
walked along the road alone, was thinking of him (I knew nothing of his
illness). I was just saying to myself, "How well I could fancy dear H.
coming along this road to meet me, his face and figure are so distinct in my
mind." At that moment I heard him call me once, "Mother," quite
distinctly, and something oppressed me daily until I heard of his death,
which was not until the 22nd. All this is not fancy, but perfectly true.
Something within me seemed always saying, " A dreadful blow is coming
'Cf. some experiences described by Mrs. Verrall in the Journal, Vol. IX., p. 134,
and p. 159.
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1902.
nearer and nearer," and on the morning of the 22nd that subtle sense said, it
is at hand. A curious thing I had never seen before happened in the night
of the 21st, on the eve of my getting the sad telegram. I suddenly woke
and saw in front of me a bright light or radiance, very clear, more like sun
light than anything else. I was much startled, as I knew directly it was
something unearthly, unnatural. I glanced at the windows, but they and the
rest of the room were dark, and this brilliant flood of light on the wall
frightened and agitated me so much I hid my face and would not look any
more ; but I had looked long enough to be certain it was nothing I could
account for. The next morning the blow fell. E. and the B.'s all knew of it
the day before I did, the news having come through them. My sister was
staying with me at Farnham, and I told her of the strange light.
(6) As I am telling you all, I may as well add another incident in connec
tion with this dear son. In the autumn (September or October) of the same
year I and my sister were at Midhurst. I sat alone, copying out a journal
that H. kept in West Africa to send to G. in India. I had my left hand on
a page of the journal, and of course was thinking of H., when I was much
startled by a breathing over my shoulder as of some one about to speak to
me. I got up and searched the room, and looked up the chimney, and
listened, but heard no more. It was a country place, very quiet, no one in
sight. My sister can verify this, as when she presently came in I told her
what I had heard. It was so distinct and unexpected a sound I was much
struck by it.
(7) Once before I remember hearing myself called as already noted. It was
in the night (about 1 or 2 of the morning) of the 5th July, 1892. Whether I
was half awake or wholly I cannot say, but most distinctly I heard E.'s voice
calling me, "Mother, mother." I was in Guernsey at the time, and she
at Cambridge. I felt nervous, and not the least surprised when a telegram
arrived about 10.30 or 11 that morning to say P. had appeared on the scene '.
I took the next boat, and reached Cambridge very late the following day.
E. greeted me with " Mother, I wanted you so ; I called you aloud twice in
the night." " I know you did," I answered, " for I heard you call."
(8) Of dreams which preceded the news of the death of two cousins I can
remember one in which I saw, not the cousin who died, but a very vivid
picture of her father. He had died when I was a small child, his face I had
long forgotten. I had not, I think, been thinking of the cousin ; it was very
mauy years since I had met her. In a few days I heard she had died quite
recently.
(9) The other dream was that I was lying on the sofa in the old schoolroom
of my childhood when two figures appeared, standing close to me. One of them
bent down and kissed my forehead, saying, " We are both very happy where
we are, and you will be happy when you come to us." One of these appear
ances was that of a dear relation already many years passed away. The one
who kissed me was his cousin, always very fond of him. She was very old,
but I had not heard of anything wrong with her. I wrote to my brother,
telling him of this dream, and saying I expected to hear of the old lady's.
JAN., 1902.] Cases. 165
-death. In reply he said, " A. D. has just died." Unluckily I cannot
remember the dates of either the dreams or the news of death, but as far
as I know it was not more than eight or ten years back, rand the dreams
were followed at once by the deaths, which probably happened at the -very
time.
(10) I think it must have been in 1885, but the date can be verified, that
L. B., being then a child, and I were talking one evening of her brother C.
We were alone, and she was telling me all about him and what a dear brother
he was. Suddenly she said, " Aunt G., don't they say it is very unlucky to
call one baby after another 1" I said it was a superstition, but why did she
ask it. She answered, "Because C. is named after another baby brother C.,
who died." Her words gave me a shock, and I hastily said, " You see it is
only nonsense, C. is grown up and perfectly well ; there is nothing the
matter with him." All the same I did not feel at all happy. The sudden
news of C.'s death while on the march in Burmah followed immediately.
This incident can be verified by my niece, who, as well as myself, were awed
at the time to find by comparing hours that the brother must have passed
away in Burmah while the sister was speaking about him at Brighton.
That same niece had a dream some years after, in 1891, about another
brother. For three nights running she dreamt he was drowned. Her dream
came true. He was thrown out of a boat in a flooded river, in, I think, the
Lowhai Country, and was swept away in the current and never seen again.
The family could verify L. B.'s dreams.
(11) The following dream occurred so very long ago, but is still so vivid to me
that I insert it. My aunt was ill at the time and her daughter staying with
us. It must have been in the early spring of 1856. I dreamt that I and a
group of relations left a city behind us and walked in the moonlight to the
sea close by. I saw that its waves were jet black, with crests of white.
Beyond was a beautiful and shining island. My aunt bid us all farewell,
stepped into the black sea, and as we all watched, she landed safely and was
received by angels amid beautiful music. Another aunt, who may also have
been ill at the time, and was ill three months and died, also then bid us
good-bye, and, turning to my mother, said, " You trill be the next." There was
nothing wrong with my mother at this time,1 but she was the next of that
group to die, and then the young cousin, who happened to be staying with
us at the time of my dream. Finally I was left alone on the shore, clinging
to an older cousin. We had watched the others all cross to the island through
that dreadful sea. She said to me, " We will go back to the city." She
and I are the only ones who lived on for years after the others died. She
tlied about seven or eight years ago, and is the one whose death I was fore
warned of by seeing the face of her father in the coffin. The curious part of
this dream is that each of that group died in the sequence foretold. I am the
only one left.
(12) Another instance of hearing that telegraphic ticking was the day after
my eldest brother died. My other brother, a sister, and myself went over to
1 She lived for three and a half years more.
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1902.
Jersey for the funeral, and the first night I was there I could not sleep for
the loud and curious winding noise close to my head. I was very nervous,
and thought it must be something my poor brother was trying to communi
cate to me. At last I could bear it no longer and whispered as if to him,
" Dear F., please stop ; it frightens me so much." The noise ceased directly
and was not continued. My brother was lying dead about four miles away
in the country.
(1) As regards the first incident in Mrs. B.'s narrative, she adds
that she had no reason for supposing that there was any fighting about
that time. Her son G. writes as follows, in reply to Dr. M'Connel's
request for his confirmation :—
G. was in action (near Tientsin) on August 19th, 1900, Sunday—from 6 a.m.
to 10 a.m.—danger not very imminent (intermittent and badly aimed fire).
Simultaneous time in England would be, I imagine, 8 p.m. to midnight,
Saturday, August 18tb. Mrs. B. wrote a few days after 19th and asked, had
I been in danger on that date ? It is the only time I have been under fire
during this expedition.
But I cannot help thinking that the telegrams may have directed Mrs. B.'s
thoughts to August 19th—knowing me to be in the vicinity—and having
felt low-spirited on that day (not uncommon), she was quick to impute the
cause.
The following is an extract from a letter written by G. to one of his
sisters :—
Tientsin, N. China, Oct. 8th, 1900.
A wet orderly has just brought letters—or rather one letter—from the
mother [about her] perception of Aug. 19th. She calls it a Saturday, but it
was Sunday in this country, and the only fighting I have seen. The differ
ence in actual time between this and you is about 10 hours, so that by Ascot
time I was running about the field of battle between 9 p.m. and 1 a.m. on
Saturday night. . . . The mother's letter is of Aug. 29th. . . . Haven't been
out on any marauds since I wrote last (30th Sept.). . . .
(2) The following are questions addressed by Dr. M'Connel to G. B.
about the second incident, with G. B.'s answers :—
(a) Can G. corroborate the main facts here 1
(b) Had he told in any letter where he thought he would come out ? either
before the exam, or after, and did he get the narrator's letter stating the
dream that he had passed 8th before or after the exam, and before the result ?
(c) How long is there between exam, and result 1
(d) And why did he say the dream must have been just when they were
adding up the marks ? Do they work at night ?
(e) Has G. any remembrance about the minor exam. ? Can he answer on
the same lines as above ?
JAN., 1902.] Cases. 167
(a) Regret that I cannot remember sufficiently well to corroborate. I
passed out 8th, and remember Mrs. B. saying that she had dreamt it.
(b) Cannot recollect.
(c) One week between end of exam, and result. Exam, extended over
10 days.
(d) Might possibly have said this to please Mrs. B. Examiners might
work at any hour (time limited).
(e) No.
Mrs. B.'s daughter, E., writes to Dr. M'Connel as follows :—
. June 3rd, 190.1.
I remember mother had a dream about G. passing out 8th, and I think she
wrote this in a letter to me, certainly before the result was known. What
I am not very sure of is whether I was with her and she told me, or whether
I was away at the time and she wrote it to me. I remember perfectly that
the dream was true. ... I am sure she told me or wrote it to me before the
result was known. ...
In reply to further questions from Dr. M'Connel about this dream,
Mrs. B. writes :—
(a) No. Neither of them preserved letters on subject. There wa« only
one, if I remember right, Mrs. B.'s to G., answered by telegram containing
news of result of exam. G. then came home.
(b) Mrs. B. dreamt at night ; was generally in bed about ten ; is under
the impression that G. told her the marks were added up late.
(c) Mrs. B. had one letter from G. in very low spirits. Whether exam,
had actually come off or not she is not positive. That letter from G. was
previous to her dream, and told her not to imagine that he would get
sappers, for he was sure he would not.
(d) The number 8 was strongly impressed OB Mrs. B. in her inner mind while
asleep. She has no recollection of seeing examiners or hearing a voice in
her dream. She dreamt that G. passed out 8th, and remembers nothing else.
(e) Three or four days at the least, I believe.
(/) The night after exam, took place. She was thinking much about it
as she knew it was happening.
The result of minor exam, at Woolwich was, if I remember, No. 49, and
.was impressed on my sleeping consciousness in exactly the same manner.
(3) With regard to Mrs. B.'s dream of her son in West Africa, Dr.
M'Connel sent him the following questions, and his answers are
appended.
(a) Can ff. corroborate the incident here described ?
(b) Can he imagine any reason why she dreamt of him ? Was he thinking
of her ?
(c) Was the incident a common one, so that the similarity would be merely
a coincidence (of dream and fact) ?
(d) Did the dream happen coincident with the event, or before or after f
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. {JAN., 1902.
(e) Were the officers dressed in kharki ?
(/) Would G. catch the narrator in his arms naturally ?
(ff) Is " right as a trivet " a common expression with G. ?
(A) What wag date of occurrence of incident ?
(a) Yes. Returning from expedition to "Tambi," W. Coast Africa, in
April, 1892, we descended the Great Skarcies River in native boats. I was
very tired and sleeping, and I dreamt of my mother. (Only one night in boats.)
(b) Tambi expedition was much in the papers about that time,
(c) Incident uncommon.
. (d) Not known.
(«) Yes.
(/) G. would put his arias round her on first seeing her after long absence.
(g) No. " All right " or " right as possible " usual expression.
(h) As far as I can remember, about April 10th, '92.
This incident very well described by Mrs. B. Stream running from " left
to right" is vague. Long, dark boat, tropical river, man with long pole,
kharki—all correct. ' . G. B.
In regard to the same incident Mrs. B. herself adds :—
Mrs. B. cannot positively say if the dream occurred as the events happened
or just before. When G. returned and we compared ideas, we concluded
that the dream was coincidental with his landing from river.
The officers in the actual scene, as well as in the dream, were in kharki.
It would be natural for G. to hug his mother, Mrs. B., when suddenly
meeting her after his being in danger.
"Right as a trivet" was a favourite expression of G.'s in his youth.
Mrs. B. knew this, but never used it herself.
No. Mrs. B. never heard of intended journey by river. Never had any
description of boat used on it.
Mrs. B. kept no diary or note of dream. Believes it was in March, 1892
She told dream to two sisters staying with her at the time. One is with her
at present and appends note :
" I well remember my sister, Mrs. B., telling me this curious dream, the
morning after she had dreamt it, in March, 1892. M. P. de B."
Mrs. B. continues :—
Mrs. B. has found letter of G.'s about the affair at Tambi, which she
encloses. Her dream was previous to her receiving it, and would point to
have been a warning one before the actual scenes took place, and not, as G.
and Mrs. B. thought, coincident.
But Mrs. B.'s memory is vague as to date of dream, though she is quite
certain it was not after the event.
The following is an extract from the letter referred to :—
S. LEONE, 16th April.
I received two letters from you at Bobat on Wednesday morning. We
JAN., 1902.] Gases. ' 169
had just returned from Tambi, and I was sleeping on the floor of a hut wait
ing for the boat to bring us here when the letters were brought on shore. I
am sorry that you should be worrying yourself about nothing. I went up
on the expedition, and have returned very fit, havftig marched 113 miles and
had a little fighting.
Mrs. B. adds the following notes about some of the other inci
dents described in her account :—
E. can corroborate about her calling for Mrs. B. [No. 7], and I should think
as to about the time. P. came a fortnight or more before expected. Mrs. B.
had arranged to be with E. at the time of P.'s birth, and had no idea it would
come off so soon. Mrs. B. did not have any dream, and was, as it were, awoke
out of sleep by E.'s voice calling her. Mrs. B. felt certain E. was in trouble
of some kind, and naturally under the circumstances thought it probable,
being now wide awake and nervous, that P. was arriving before the time.
She did not dream about any birth or anything at all before the voice came.
[No. 4.] Did not keep telegram. It was to E., but as she was away Mrs. B.
opened it. H. had been ill some time before. He might give date, I cannot.
Mrs. B., by the way, heard from E. yesterday, Jan. 21st, that she had seen
Capt. A., who was with H. at Cape Town just before he embarked, and says
he was very ill then. H. will, I expect, be able to recall when he sent off
telegram.
[No. 5.] In the instance of H. B., he was taken ill on 23rd March, 1896.
Although Mrs. B. did not note the date of hearing that noise, she counted
the days after getting news of his death, and was struck with the fact that
he was taken ill same date as noise. The hour of his illness she never heard.
She listened to noise about 8 a.m. of 23rd March.
Mrs. B. writes again with regard to the fourth incident in her
account :—
January 29th [1901].
E. tells me that the cablegram about her husband's illness " was sent by
letter to Capetown" (from, I think, Pretoria) by train, and then wired from
there, so it was several days on the way. But she does not mention the
hour. However, the wire was on its way, either by land or by sea, or was
being re-telegraphed from Cape Town, when I heard that curious noise.
Mrs. B.'s daughter E. writes to Dr. M'Connel with regard to the
same incident as follows :—
January Zdth, 1901.
About this last time of H.'s being invalided, he dictated the telegram to
the doctor in hospital at Pretoria on the Saturday, October 13th, and it was
put into a letter with many others and sent by train to Capetown, and was
gent off from Capetown on Tuesday early morning, I conclude, as it had that
date, 24th, upon it, and reached this in the afternoon of that day.
. (7) With regard to the seventh incident, Mrs. B. writes :—
Yes, I told the fact of having heard E. calling me to my sister and to G.
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1902.
Both were with me when the telegram announcing P.'s arrival came. My
sister affirms this (enclosed). No, I did not, I think, say anything to them
before the telegram came, as I was very anxious aud unnerved at hearing E.
call me. This generally prevents my mentioning unusual things at the
moment, but when the telegram came in next morning I at once said out to
them I heard E. call me twice in the night.
On being questioned as to this incident, E. writes :—
Yes, E. can corroborate the above exactly ; she did call out at that time.
Mrs. B.'s sister writes :—
I remember Mrs. B. telling me after the receipt of the telegram that she
had heard E. calling her during the night, but she had not mentioned it
before it arrived. M. P. de B.
G. 267. Clairvoyant vision.
For the evidence in the following case of an apparently clairvoyant
vision we are indebted to Mr. W. W. Baggally, of No. 23, Lower Philli-
more Place, Kensington, W., a Member of the Society, who is acquainted
with the principal witnesses in the case and has full confidence in their
integrity. The percipient, Mr. John Polley, writes :—
At a stance held within the sound of Big Ben on May 8th, 1901, there
were present Mrs. E. V. M., Mr. Thomas Atwood, and myself. As Mr.
Atwood resumed his seat after delivering an invocation (about 8.30 p.m.), I
became aware of a vision, which presented itself on the left of where I was
seated. The scene appeared as being some 5 feet distant from me, and
displayed part of the interior of a room, viz., that part where the stove
stood. The fire in the stove was small and dull, and close beside it was
an overturned chair. In front of the fire was something that looked like a
fire-guard or clothes-horse, but this was not quite clear to me. Playing or
climbing over this article was a child, who fell forward, and, when it
regained its feet, I noticed that its dress was on fire.
I made no reference to the matter at the time, as I had an impression that
the vision might be connected with some occurrence in the family of Mrs. M.,
and I was averse to mentioning it for fear of awaking sad memories.
After some manifestations of movements of the table round which we
were seated the whole vision was repeated, and this time I had an un
controllable impulse to speak. Upon my describing what I had just seen
for the second time, I was much relieved to hear that the matter was not
recognised as being connected in any way with the sitters. I may mention
here that the child appeared to be about three years old, and, judging from
the style of dress, I described it as a girl, although the vision would apply
equally well to a boy, as, at that early age, the short clothes worn by both
sexes would be very similar.
Next Thursday morning, May 9th, 1901, upon awakening, I described to
my wife the events of the previous evening's stance. On the evening of the
JAN., 1902.J Cases. 171
same day, viz., Thursday, May 9th, I was out with a friend, and upon my
return home at 11.5 p.m. my sister, Mary Louisa Polley (who resided with
me at that time), made the remark, "I have a piece of bad news for you,
Jack." "Well," I replied, "what is it? let me know," and she answered,
"Brother George's little son Jackie has been burned to death." Like a
flash I realised the connection of the sad event with my vision of the
previous night. I then asked her (my sister), " How did you know this, and
when V She replied, "Mr. Fred Sinnett told me when he came over to see
us this evening." JOHN POLLEY.
The other two sitters confirm Mr. Polley's statement as follows :—
At a seance held on the evening of Wednesday, 8th May, 1901, at which
were present Mrs. E. V. M., Mr. Thomas Atwood, and Mr. John Polley, we,
the undersigned, testify that Mr. John Polley gave to us a description of a
vision of the burning of a child which he saw at this seance.
[Signed in full], E. V. M.
THOMAS ATWOOD.
t Mrs. Polley writes :—
95 Church Street, Stoke-Newington.
My husband, Mr. John Polley, gave me, on Thursday morning, May 9th,
1901, an account of a vision of the burning of a child that he had had at a
seance at which he had been present on the previous evening of Wednesday,
8th May, 1901. It was not till the evening of Thursday, 9th May, 1901,
that I or any other member of our family residing with us knew of the
death, through burning, of our little nephew, John Frederick Polley. Mr.
Frederick Sinnett visited us on the evening of Thursday, May 9th, 1901,
and communicated the sad news to us for the first time.
ELIZABETH POLLEY.
Mr. Polley's sister writes as follows :—
95 Church Street, Stoke-Newingtou.
I was quite unaware that any misfortune had occurred in the family of
my brother, Mr. Frederick George Polley, till the evening of Thursday,
9th May, 1901, when Mr. Frederick Sinnett informed me that my little
nephew, John Frederick Polley, had met his death on the previous day
through burning. On the return home of my brother, Mr. John Polley,
with whom I reside, I communicated the news to him at about 11 o'clock of
the same evening of Thursday, 9th, 1901. ' MARY LOUISA POLLEY.
A local paper, which Mr. Baggally has sent us, containing an account
of the inquest, gives the date of the accident as Tuesday, May 7th.
The child was taken to a hospital immediately and there died. His
father, Mr. F. G-. Polley, a decorative painter, writes to Mr. Baggally
in reply to his inquiries as follows :—
6 Adpar Street, Hall Park, Paddington,
June 19th, 1901.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your inquiry respecting my late son, John Frederick,
I beg to say that on Tuesday, May 7th, my wife went out to do some
172 Journal of Society .for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1902.
shopping, leaving my son, aged 2 years and 2 months, in a bed sitting-room
with another brother, aged 7. Whilst the elder brother was getting some
toys for them to play with, the deceased thrust some paper in the fire, pulled
it out again, and set fire to his clothes. Some neighbours took him to the
Children's Hospital, Paddington Green, where he passed away on Wednes
day, May '8th, at 11.45 a.m. No intimation of this was given by myself or
any member of our family to my brother, Mr. John Polley, until a friend of
the family called at my address on Thursday, May the 9th, between 1 and
2 p.m., when we informed him of the sad loss we had sustained, and he told
us he intended calling on my brother that evening, and we asked him if he
would communicate the news to my brother and sister, who reside at Church
Street, Stoke-Newington. Of course you know, sir, I am antagonistic to
your views, but my brother has told me it is for the interests of science ;
if that is so, I take great pleasure in its furtherance.—Your sincerely,
FREDERICK GEORGE POLLEY.
In a later letter to Mr. Baggally, Mr. F. G. Polley states that there
was a fire-guard in the room ; the little boy did not fall into the fire,
but set himself on fire as described above.
Mr. Baggally himself writes further with regard to the case as
follows :—
December 4th, 1901.
• . . . Mrs. M. is not a medium and does not profess to have any mediumistic
powers. Mr. John Polley is accustomed to have impressions of a so-called
•clairvoyant and clairaudient nature, so is Mr. Thomas Atwood, but they are
not public mediums. The vision referred to is not unique in the experience
of Mr. J. Polley. ... If I recollect rightly I saw the father of the child,
Mr. G. F. Polley, on May 22nd, who handed to me the newspaper with the
account of the accident. A few days after he sent me his written statement.
I obtained the written statements of Mr. J. Polley, Mr. Atwood and Mrs.
M., and Mrs. Elizabeth Polley in June. The statement of Miss Mary Louisa
Polley I did not obtain till November, hence the delay in sending the account
to the S.P.R. . . W. W. BAGGALLY.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by Correspondents.]
ON- SOME POINTS IN PROFESSOR HYSLOP'S REPORT ON MRS. PIPER.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL .RESEARCH. .
December 10th, 1901.
In the valuable " Record of Observatioiis of Certain Trance Phenomena,"
just issued by the Society, from the hand of Professor Hyslop, the author
says concerning the personality of Imperator and Rector : " I do not
enter into any speculation as to what they are, as a precondition of a.
JAN., 1902.] Correspondence. 173.
spiritistic conclusion, however much we might desire to have the question,
of their nature determined." I am sorry to say that there remains in my
mind a question of the possibility of maintaining this suspension of judg
ment concerning the nature of the intermediaries while considering the
nature of the 'personalities represented by them. This doubt remains after'
as thorough a study of the report as I know how to make and with " the
will to believe" as strong in me as it can be in any one.
It has been the habit of the S.P.R. to prove first the honesty of the
medium—and Professor Hyslop states distinctly that the communicators
through the hand of Mrs. Piper act simply as mediums—but in this case
it would seem that to determine the nature of the intermediaries was a
precondition of the discussion of their honesty. If they themselves are
discarnate spirits, then they may be able to recognise and represent other
discarnate spirits ; but if they are incarnate minds acting " telepathically "
through the organism of Mrs. Piper, they may be mistaken concerning
the origin, or intentionally deceptive in their representation, of the items
of information which come to them.
Dr. Hyslop says (p. 158) : " But having recognised this circumstance,,
it will be easy to realise their spiritistic import after being convinced
that fraud is to be thrown out of account." But in speaking of fraud,
he seems to limit its possibility to fraud on his own part, or on that of
Dr. Hodgson, or of Mrs. Piper, or—at the farthest—on the part of Mrs.
Piper's " subliminal." Of the latter he says (p. 178) : " Of course, if we,
assume that Imperator and Hector are the secondary personalities of Mrs.
Piper, we have large enough powers of intelligent action assumed to make
it all the more difficult to transcend the telepathic hypothesis."
But why need we limit the use of the telepathic power to the secondary
personality of Mrs. Piper? If it is conceded—as it seems to be in this
report—that Mrs. Piper has a secondary personality which is distinct
from her normal consciousness, is it to be supposed that she is the only
human being who is thus gifted ? And if it is possible for extraneous
personalities to use her organism for the transmission of messages—as
Rector and others are supposed to do—why may not these extraneous
minds be the secondary personalities of other human beings ?
This would not by any means be an unheard-of supposition, as the-
claim to the possession of such powers by living men has been made in
past ages and is still being made by Mystic Brotherhoods and Occult
Societies, right here in England and America, in the twentieth century.
Of course we are under no obligation to accept without proof what these
people tell us of "telepathic" powers which enable "one person to transmit
his thought or his sensation or his volition, over any distance, to another
person who has or can attain his psychic vibration"; but, on the other
hand, are we at liberty to claim: as proved, conclusions which depend
for their truth upon the falsity of what those people .assert, before we
have proved its falsity ? If by any chance the claims made by Mystics
and Occultists in all ages should prove to be true in this respect, would
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1902.
it not make it just as "difficult to transcend the telepathic hypothesis"
as it wquld be if we supposed the invading personality to be Mrs. Piper's
" subliminal"?
Does not the assertion by many disinterested persons that this form
of telepathy does exist, make it necessary that we should "reverse the
argument" and "suspend judgment upon the identity of the communicators
other than the ' controls ' until some decisive hypothesis has been reached
concerning the latter " 1
Even if it should be proved in the end that the Imperator group are
discarnate spirits, would it then be necessary for us to accept the—to
some of us unbearable—supposition that our dead are in the state in
which they represent them to be ? Would not the fact that they are
able to enter and operate through the organism of Mrs. Piper make it
probable that they are able to visit other human organisms which, in
sleep, or abstraction, or hypnosis, or voluntary trance, may become sus
ceptible to their inroads? Would not this power make it possible for
them to thus obtain the information necessary for producing the semblance
of personal recollection of names and events ? To make use of such a
power for the accumulation of facts and then present those facts as proofs
of spirit identity would of course involve deception, but would this de
ception be so "archly fiendish as to baffle all hope of finding it either
intelligible or finite in its capacities " ? In what respect would it exceed
the deception which draws its dark trail throughout the history of Mysti
cism and Occultism and Spiritism from time immemorial ?
We all remember, of course, that Rector in time past claimed the ability
to examine records and printed books, and give out through the hand
of the medium information thus obtained, and even to so impress the mind
of the medium as to make him select from a shelf of xmknown books
the proper one for verifying the quotation (Proceedings, vol. xi., pp. 106-7) ;
and that Mr. Myers' comment upon this feat was : " It is plain that a
power such as this of acquiring and reproducing fresh knowledge inter
poses much difficulty in the way of identifying any alleged spirit by
means of his knowledge of the facts of his earth-life."
We have an incident in Professor Hyslop's report which reminds, one
of this claim of Rector's. The occurrence, and the care with which it
was verified, are discussed in Appendix III., Note 94, pp. 535-6. The
communicator is supposed to be James M'Clellan, who, in speaking of
his father, John M'Clellan, gets him confused with an entirely unrelated
John M'Clellan who is mentioned in the History of Greene County, Ohio.
The son gives, as incidents in his father's life, accounts given in this
history which refer to the other man, and which occurred several years
;before the father of James M'Clellan removed to Greene County. He
also mentions family names connected with the other M'Clellan family
and not with his own. If records and traditions were being looked up
by a stranger in search of evidential items, such a mistake would be
intelligible ; but for a son drawing upon his own memory for events in
JAN., 1902.] Correspondence. 175
the life of his father, it certainly is not so. Was it Rector, or some
confrere of Rector's, performing his old-time feat of reading records ? It
was Mr. Myers' opinion that the acknowledged use of such powers on
the part of the controls "leaves us with nothing more than the word of
Imperator" to prove that persons thus vouched for are really present.
Is it not then our imperative duty to establish beyond question the
reliability of Imperator? Would it be too presumptuous for us to ask
for the co-operation of Imperator in an attempt to demonstrate, under
test conditions, the truth—for instance—of his " explanation " to Stainton
Moses of the phosphorus fiasco,—"the abortive attempt on the part of
Chom to make a light " ? (Proceedings, vol. xi., pp. 44-46).
Would not such proof of Imperator's truthfulness go farther, among
Anglo-Saxons, towards establishing his prodigious claims, than would any
amount of " bowing of the hand " and capitalizing of the personal pronoun
in token of the presence of a lofty intelligence?
If he is as " lofty " as an ordinary white man, he cannot refuse to
stand by his record. And surely we who declined to investigate the
psychical phenomena of Madame Blavatsky because her fraudulent physical
phenomena discredited all that she might do, cannot consistently accept
the same psychical phenomena, when presented by the Imperator group,
and neglect to enquire into their physical phenomena. A. L. BARKER.
FAITH.
WHEN the Editor remarks, a propos of my letter in the December number
of the Journal, that " all photographers and all chemists agree as to what
conditions are necessary in their case," he misses entirely my point, which
was that in all tentative research (psychic or otherwise) the conditions are
not known, and can only be discovered as the result of patient investigation
and numerous experiments under varying conditions. This applies to all
advancing knowledge, and is not peculiar to psychical research. Therefore,
I think (considering our crass ignorance, mediums and sitters alike), it
behoves us in the first place to try to learn what are the most favourable
conditions before talking too much about what conditions we are going to
"impose" upon those who submit to our investigations. No one has
acknowledged more freely and frankly than Dr. Hodgson himself how much
he has learnt in this way, and how absurd some of his earlier tests and
exactions have appeared to him in the light of his own advancing knowledge
and experience.
The Editor, in running over a list of varying conditions demanded at
varying times by different mediums (sometimes where "control"and medium
have differed in their views) has illustrated my point, for me admirably.
Where mechanical forces, definite substances, and definite quantities are in
question, the conditions necessary may be agreed upon, as he says, and may
also be explained, as he suggests, by the expert to the lay mind. But where
moods and emotions have to be taken into account, and are all-important in
their influence upon results, I fear we must be content—if we take up this
subject at all—to allow a very considerable margin for the personal equation
in medium, in sitter, and probably in the third factor of our problem. I
can state from my personal experience that Dr. Hodgson has shown him
self fully alive to this necessity in the case of Mrs. Piper. Hence his good
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JAN., 1902. .
results. The misfortune is that so few can see that in making this necessary
allowance we are more truly scientific in spirit than those bornds individuals
who scent fraud the moment it is asserted that mental conditions and emotional
states must be taken into account in this special research. "If you. can get
a certain result when the light is out, or when you are feeling harmonious
and happy and capable, and cannot get the same result when physical and
mental conditions are alike inharmonious, there must be trickery somewhere.
Who ever heard of air not liquefying at a certain minus temperature
because the experimenter had a toothache or had lost his temper?" This
sounds absurd, but it is literally the line of argument that lies unconsciously
" back of the mind " of so many of us and causes half our failures.
I would only, in conclusion, take one small exception to Principal Lodge's
kindly remarks upon my letter. I cannot allow that my admiration was
given to the poetic side of St. Paul's definition of Faith, unless he (Principal
Lodge) admits that the truest poetry is the most real that we know ?
It was the accuracy of the definition which I admired in the quotation.
Faith in its legitimate sense surely presupposes the existence of the fact
which justifies it. Anything less than this is not Faith at all, but specula
tion, illusion, credulity, or superstition.
When I spoke of Science winning her victories through Faith I meant
exactly what I said, and was not thinking of those discoveries which have
been made as the result of speculative experiments, undertaken sometimes
with no absolutely definite aim, but with the hope that something of interest
might result. I referred to those far higher achievements where the martyr
of Science, through that quality of Faith, which we can only speak of
alternatively as Divine Intuition, has known that a certain discovery, not
yet in possession of the race, will be made some day. and has worked and
toiled, and too often starved, with that one aim in view. He may have
been pitied, he has certainly been persecuted, abused, and jeered at in turn,
till one fine day (probably long after the seer himself is dead and forgotten)
the fact he knew by Faith has come to be the commonplace of our lives.
Faith that is not some day justified by fact is not Faith at all. It is a
misuse of the word. "He that comes to the spirits must have faith to
believe that they exist" may certainly mean, he must suppose it is just
barely possible that they exist, in which case it is not Faith, but speculation.
I do not understand why I am credited by Principal Lodge, and
inferentially by the Editor also, with having "appealed" in my letter
for "fixed and crystallised conditions." I have pleaded for reasonable
and for suitable conditions, but could not have suggested fixed conditions.
On the contrary, I distinctly said that they must be tentative under our
present limitations of knowledge. My remarks upon the need for positive
as well as negative work applied specially to England. Out of the three
cases quoted by the Editor, one is connected with a gentleman who lives in
Ireland, and the other two belong, I think, to the American Branch of the
Society. E. KATHARINE BATES.
NOTICE.
The Hon. Secretary informs us that he has received several communications
from members in reference to the notice as to proposed experiments in thought-
transference printed in the December Journal • but some of the writers do
not seem to have observed that what is asked for in this case is their co-opera
tion, not as experimenters, but as subjects for experiment, the Committee
being in need of suitable subjects. Any assistance from those who are able
and willing to act in that capacity will be gratefully received. Communica
tions should be addressed to the Hon. Secretary, J. G. PIDDINQTON, Esq.,
87, Sloaue Street, London, S.W.
No. CLXXXVL—VOL. X. FEBRUARY, 1902.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena: Personal Experiences of C., 177
MIND READING AND ALLIED PHENOMENA.
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES OF C.
[THE following narrative, though written for convenience in the
third person, is really at first-hand, having been communicated to us
by a Member of the S.P.R. who has studied psychical phenomena for
many years, has had an unusually wide experience both of observing
and recording them, and has long been known to us as a scrupulously
accurate and impartial investigator. In the autobiographical statement
which he sends us, he has carefully recorded a large number of inci
dents and observations, which—entirely unsensational and even trivial,
as most of them are—can yet hardly fail with the treatment he gives
them to be instructive to our readers. We have often insisted on the
necessity of keeping such complete records of psychical experiences as
material for study, so that the student may be able to form his own
independent judgment of the whole group. Of his own record, C.
writes : " Many of the cases are very weak, but they have a cumulative
effect"
We print his narrative with some omissions, indicated where they
occur, but the complete original record1 will, as usual, be preserved in
the rooms of the Society, and be there accessible for inspection. It is
dated May, 1901.—EDITOR.]
'C. writes: "It would be quite feasible to obtain from most of the persons
mentioned in my narrative a formal declaration that the facts occurred as I relate
them ; but my notes are so much more trustworthy than their memory that their
corroboration would not add much to the evidential value of my cases. As a
matter of fact, those parts of my account that concerned them were read to Dr.
Barcellos, Major Vaz, Senr. Raimundo, and others, and were declared by them to
be quite correct. Major Vaz reminded me of the ' Catita ' guess, of which I had
not taken note. No other alteration had to be made in what I had written."
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1902.
INTRODUCTION.
The study of the floating dust of the atmosphere has led to the
discovery of important physical and biological truths. The study of
the motelike mental images that drift in idle moments across the field
of consciousness may in the end prove to be similarly instructive,
inasmuch as these involuntary creations of the brain often seem to
serve as the nuclei for psychic phenomena of more complex grouping,
But the value of introspective observation depends largely on the
confidence that may be placed in the observer, and the experiences
thereby obtained are of a very intimate nature. For these reasons C.,
the writer of the following pages, has to overcome some natural
reluctance before submitting to the criticism of strangers facts which,
perhaps, can be justly appreciated only by those who are well
acquainted with him. Again, many of his cases owe their sole signi
ficance to their number, and if taken separately would be considered
as very doubtfully supernormal. Even those that are stronger and can
stand alone may not be perceived to have any important or immediate
bearings. Slight incidents, however, are sometimes found to furnish
useful illustration in the construction of theories, just as little stones
often fit well in the odd corners of big buildings. It may also happen
that other diffident ones will be encouraged by his example to make
personal disclosures that are far more remarkable than his own.
C. is already in his fifty-third year. He is of a sensitive, but self-
contained, disposition. His sight is slightly dimmed by advancing
age, otherwise his sense perceptions seem to be fairly normal. His
memory, which has always been more ready than retentive, is of the
mixed type, but visual, and perhaps motor, impressions are retained by
him better than auditory. The interest he has taken for the last
fourteen years in psychical subjects has led him to a closer inspection
of his own mentality, aware, as he is, that those who would arrive at a
clear comprehension of the subjective experiences of others must often
seek for terms of comparison within themselves. In this self-examina
tion he has met with surprises, such as would, no doubt, occur to other
experimenters if, indeed, they would take equal pains to watch and
wait for exceptional mental phenomena.
One of C.'s earliest discoveries was that he had no decided tendency
to any of the usual forms of automatism found in so-called medium-
ship : there were no clear manifestations in his case, either of external
ised vision, or of involuntary motor impulse ; no brusque shiftings of
personality, and perhaps no marked divergence from normal conscious
FEB., 1902.] Mind Reading and 'Allied Phenomena. 179
ness. In his whole experience there was only one occasion in which
the mise-en-sdne of subliminal perception apparently passed beyond the
limits of normality, and that was when he was quite a little boy. A
memory that dates from infancy is of course subject to much doubt, but
if a full account of C.'s experiences is to be given, the occurrence must
be related. He was in company with older children, who had crowded
into a bedroom, where a looking-glass covered with a towel stood on a
toilet-table. Some game was being played, in which he was too young
to take part. In the midst of laughter each child in turn lifted the
towel and looked into the glass. Induced by curiosity, he also lifted a
corner of the towel and looked in. In spite of the fact that the glass
was covered, it apparently reflected the whole room ; but it showed
the bed in a position at right angles to its real position in the room,
and in the narrow passage formed between the bed and the wall sat an
old woman dressed in a mob-cap and a common old-fashioned cotton
gown. She was rocking a cradle ; and as soon as 0. looked at her, she
raised her eyes to him, and, half doubled with age, advanced towards
him with tottering steps. He was frightened, and let the towel fall.
On looking in a second time the whole scene was repeated, and again
he lost courage and allowed the towel to drop. It was in vain that he
spoke to the other children on the subject of his vision ; they paid no
.attention to him, and in all probability they did not share in his
hallucination.
This experience, however, which belongs to a period of life char
acterised by a proneness to illusion and hallucination, stands remote in
time from the colourless intuitions of a maturer age with which C.'s
present narrative is principally concerned. In fact, the impressions
that sometimes seem to reach him through other than normal channels
are not in themselves very distinguishable from the weak imagery that
accompanies his ordinary trains of thought. Hence his conclusion that
the direct transmission to the brain of images from other minds, or the
reception by the brain of veridical messages of no recognised personal
source, is something quite distinct from the automatisms that sometimes
bring such messages to the surface.1 Yet there is a special attitude of
1C. speaka thus for convenience' sake. Owing to the standing difficulty of
•conceiving any direct interaction between immaterial thought and the material
brain, he is inclined to admit the spiritual body of Pauline psychology. If such a
iertium quid exist, it is probable that in supernormal communication thought is
directly transferred from spiritual body to spiritual body, and only indirectly
from brain to brain. In the case of telepathy from the dead the supposed agent
lias no longer a material brain at his disposal, yet such nunciation is apparently
the same in kind as that between persons in the flesh.
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1902.
mind that is favourable in trying for thought-transference or other
cognate phenomena : the gaze must be directed inward to the exclusion
as much as possible of the objective world ; at the same time passivity
must be combined with alertness, for if the brain is sluggish, or somnol
ence supervenes, it is probable that nothing will result from the
experiment. This does not mean that the attention must be sharply
directed to the expected impression ; on the contrary, a certain vacuity,
or even some slight pre-occupation with alien subjects, may be a favour
ing condition. Supernormal mental phenomena are not to be com
manded at will : they are always more or less spontaneous in their
manifestation, and even in experimentation they are apt to come as.
surprises. Yet when once the trail has been struck, it may be
followed, for it often happens that one hit will bring others in its train.
In C.'s percipience the only connotation of the dim and ill-defined
images apparently referable to telepathic sources is that they frequently
bring with them a certain intuitive conviction of their veridicality.
Then again, they have no recognisable associations within the brain n
they belong to no immediately preceding ideational series and are due
apparently to no previous suggestion, unless in the case of those that
impinge on the consciousness in seeming answer to some mental
request.
With such imperfect control it is evident that any regular exercise-
of psychic faculties is out of the question. At some periods an inclina
tion to experiment has been followed by successes ; at others C. has
felt that he would be unsuccessful, and has refrained from making
trials. Thus his experiences are often separated by wide intervals of
time, and are numerous only because they are scattered over a lapse
of many years. It may be added that in his case supernormal percep
tion has generally depended on the presence of certain intimate friends,
and that the instances are few in which he has read the minds of
strangers. Under the circumstances it has hardly been feasible to keep
a record of failures. C.'s impression is that they are at least not more
numerous than the successes, and that they would be very few indeed
if he would abstain from asking questions in the case of extremely
faint and doubtful mental imagery.
Before enumerating the incidents thus generally characterised, a few-
causes of error may first be insisted on. The phenomena supposed to
be genuine will afterwards be classified under the headings of " Mind-
Reading and Thought-Transference," " Clairvoyance," " Telepathy from
the Living," and "Telepathy from the Dead"; but lest such a pro
gramme should, in spite of the foregoing remarks, raise undue
FEB., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 181
expectation, it must be repeated that C.'s experiences are almost
entirely lacking in that objectivation that renders other cases so
wonderful. They may for this very reason be all the more worthy of
the attention of the patient psychologist ; but they will probably excite
but a languid interest in the general reader. Taken together, they
have the weight of cumulative evidence, but, considered apart, many of
them would pass as no more than the results of chance coincidence, or
lucky guessing.
PSEUDO-PHENOMENA.
To chance, indeed, must be attributed much that the too credulous
spiritist is disposed to lay to the account of busybodies in the other
world. Had C. supposed himself to be an automaton in the hands of
guides or controls, his belief would doubtless have been fortified by the
following occurrences :
While residing at White's Hotel, on the Tijuca hill, he once went
into the dining-room a minute or so before the hour for ringing the
second dinner-bell. Having walked home he was very hungry, and, to
beguile the few seconds of waiting, he took from a bookstand an old
volume of Chambers's Miscellany. Then, with a distinct desire to find
in it some apposite allusion to the circumstances of the moment, he
allowed it to fall open on a window sill. The book, however, slipped
from the sill. Before it reached the ground he caught it against the
wall, and |in so doing doubled back some of the leaves. At the page
opened, and just at the place marked by the doubling of the leaf, were
the words : " ' Ye are welcome,' said the porter ; ' let us go now to the
refectory, for ye must be hungry.' " As he was reading this the second
dinner-bell rang.
C. once made an official call at the Lyceo das Aries e Officios of Eio de
Janeiro. He was kept waiting for nearly half-an-hour. At last, with
some bitter reflections on the dilatoriness of Brazilians in general, he
took from his pocket a German translation of The School for Scandal,
and opened it at hazard. His eyes at once alighted on the following
sentence : " Du laszt auch entsetzlich auf dich warten."
Other incidents that are prima facie supernormal are found to be
ultimately traceable to a normal source. It is well known to psychical
students that memories apparently lost may reappear, even after the
lapse of years, and that they are very likely to emerge into conscious
ness through some of the usual forms of psychic automatism. Thus C.
once sat down to table-tilting with a Spiritist friend, and obtained a
Portuguese name, with the declaration that its owner had lived at a
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1902.
place called Jurujuba. The contents of the message were not charac
teristic of the sitters, but might well have proceeded from a man of the
working classes. Inquiries at Jurujuba established the fact that such a
man had existed, and C. was at first inclined to believe that the case
was one of identity. But, many years before, his friend had superin
tended the work of putting up telegraph lines in that place, and after
a time he vaguely recalled the name given through the table as one
that had belonged to an individual who had served under his orders.
Here evidently the emergence of a latent memory must be supposed in
preference to the less plausible hypothesis of post-mortem agency.
Other more frequent causes of delusion are the sounds and sights
that impress the senses when the attention is otherwise engaged. The
subject is also not a new one, but it will bear further exemplification.
Let a common case be supposed. A person is busily engaged in
writing late in the afternoon. The clock strikes, and he is apparently
unobservant of it. By-and-by an awareness creeps upon him that it is
near dinner-time; and recollecting that the hour has already been
struck, he counts the strokes in memory, and concludes that it is past
five or past six, as the case may be. It may also happen that his
attention is not immediately called to the time, but that at some later
period he is reminded by a subliminal message that he was writing
after five or six o'clock. This information, standing in no apparent
connection with supraliminal memory, will then be easily mistaken for
a piece of intuitive knowledge.
The way in which unconscious percepts will sometimes report
themselves to consciousness in some subsequent pause of mental
activity is exemplified in the following instance : C. was once waiting
for the street car at Botafogo. He had been absorbed in some train of
thought, when in a moment of passivity the word Loivenbrau forced
itself upon his notice. Wondering how it could have occurred to him,
he looked round and found it posted up in two places in a brewer's
advertisement, which was then a new one. Doubtless the word had
been read by the eye before the attention had leisure to examine it.
It would seem that in one case at least C. was made aware of a
similarly latent impression by an externalised hypnopompic image. It
was a very hot summer's day. He was sitting alone in an upper
apartment of a business house. Here he fell into a doze, and on
awaking he glanced across a well to the other side of the room. For
the fraction of a second he saw there a man wearing a straw hat pushed
to the back of his head. The figure stood looking down as if examin
ing papers. The vision was too brief to be very distinct. It was
FEB., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 183
preceded by no dream, and it was gone the moment the percipient was
fully awake. Later on he noticed that a person who for a time made
use of that apartment as a temporary office was accustomed to stand
looking down at his papers exactly in the same place and with a straw
hat at the back of his head. The inference is that C. had seen him there
before in some previous lazy moment, and that the image, belonging to
a special state of consciousness, was no more than the clothing of an
emergent memory.
Nevertheless there are vagaries of the imagination that are not so
easily explained, and that are possibly referable to more occult causes.
On the afternoon of June 15th, 1896, C. was alone, engaged in trying
for automatic script, when he seemed to realise, without the aid of
the senses, that an individual of thin angular frame with strag
gling grey whiskers and dark greasy clothes was standing close behind
him. He experienced a movement of repugnance to the fancied
proximity of this invisible being, and immediately the feeling of a
presence passed away.
Again, on waking one morning before it was quite light, he external
ised the visual image of a dead colleague. The face, seen dimly as if
in an enlarged photograph, wore an expression of sternness, which,
however, was changed into a smile in answer to a mental protest on
the part of the seer.
In 1894 C. was staying at a plantation house in the State of Minas.
One evening he walked seven or eight miles across the country to the
town of Juiz de Fora. He was going up a long hill, and had nearly
arrived at the top when he vaguely imagined a man following him at a
short distance—not directly behind him, but a little to his right hand.
A sensation, which is best described as a seance feeling, suggested the
idea of a ghostly presence. The loneliness of the place and the moon
less night were perhaps favourable to such fancies; and yet C. was
rather surprised that he should experience them on the open hill and
not in the dark wood that crowned the summit. Subsequently he
verified, quite casually, that the very spot where he had been subject
to these peculiar imaginings was popularly supposed to be haunted.
In these last cases it is impossible to discover whether the visionary
conceptions of C.'s mind can, or cannot, be classed as the masquerading
fulfilment of some preceding, though unremembered, suggestion. The
coincidence with a popular belief, above mentioned, points rather to
real spiritual perception. At the same time it must be remarked that
his abiding interest in things psychical may suffice in itself to give a
certain and determined shape to his waking dreams.
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1902.
It sometimes occurs that spoken words are perceived as mere sounds
which are only subsequently resolved into sense by a process of mental
digestion. This may be a case of nervous deafness, or of something
unfamiliar in the voice or accent of the speaker which requires to be
translated into the more familiar tones to which the ear is accustomed.
There is a possibility that, time having elapsed, such translation may
take place sub-consciously and that the memory may take stock of the
meaning evolved after its uncouth origin has been forgotten. Here
again information might be found lodged in the mind with the false
appearance of having reached it through some supernormal channel.
Another subtle cause of mistaken impressions may be noticed in the
process by which weak memories are converted into strong ones. A
dream, a series of hypnagogic images, the percepts of absent-minded
moments, leave, as is well known, but faint and fading traces on the
brain. They are likely to be recollected only when there is a reversion
to the state of consciousness in which they were perceived. If anything
worthy of remembrance occurs in such psychoses, it must be made the
subject of immediate reflection in order that it may be fixed on the
normal waking memory. But even at this first rehearsal some of
the details may be altered, or may slip from the mental grasp, and
there is then an awareness that they have not been properly recalled.
By-and-by, after the case has been revolved in thought over and over
again, the element of doubt tends to disappear, and the mind may
finally become convinced that the facts occurred just as they are
remembered.
The effects of expectant attention likewise find some slight
illustration in C.'s experiences. Among his notes is one referring
to the pain he once felt in the eye when, on going through a wood,
a twig threatened to return and strike him in the face. If a hand
is held under the table at a dark sitting in the hope of perceiving a
cold breeze or the touch of ghostly fingers, it is quite likely that the
expected sensation will be felt. There is an experiment which any
person may make who
wishes to demonstrate
the ease with which mo
mentary hallucinations
may be induced, even in
normal waking subjects.
Let the hands be held
no. i. up against the light, and
then, with forefingersand
FEB., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 185
thumbs pressed together, let them be drawn apart slowly as if to show
the length of a thread or a lady's hair. If the onlooker is at all
suggestible, he will probably catch a glimpse of a fine dark line
stretched between the fingers.1 (See Fig. 1.)
In concluding the subject of pseudo-phenomena, a word or two
may be said on the suggestive effect of images already existing
in the mind. Those that are tactile may easily be translated into
visual terms, and vice versa. The visualiser will habitually convert
into form and colour the impressions received through the senses
of hearing and touch. In this case the taste of a fruit, the smell
of a flower, will at once recall their appearance. The auditif, in
order to recollect objects seen by him, must associate them with
their names. Two curious cases of such involuntary shifting of
percepts are found in C.'s notes.
On the evening of September 14th, 1898, he was going upstairs
to tea, and was about to go out through an archway leading into
the garden. He extinguished the candle he was carrying and
proceeded to open the archway door. As soon as he grasped the
key to turn it in the lock, its image was formed with some distinct
ness and persistence in the glare left in the eyes by the light of
the candle.
On the night of the 28th of November, 1894, while on the
frontier between sleeping and waking, he saw, as a hypnagogic
image, a plump hand with the forefinger
and thumb held in the position shown in
the drawing ; and at the same time he
felt a sensation in the right shoulder as
if he had been seized by the fingers thus
visualised. The arm to which it belonged
seemed to come from the wall behind him. It must be noted that on
the occasion he was a guest at the house of some coffee merchants,
and that a deceased partner of the firm was said to have had just such
a hand as the one shaped by C.'s imagination. Here it is probable
that, in spite of their apparent simultaneity, the visual image
really occasioned the sensation of touch.
With a little of the rounding brought by time and a little repetition
from mouth to mouth, this is one of those cases that would soon grow
into a marvellous ghost story. It is just possible that the hand seen
belonged to a spirit—but, then, how about the key 1
1 To ensure success, a real hair should be shown first and then, as if for the
purpose of comparison, an imaginary one.
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1902.
MIND-READING AND THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
(1) C. will now proceed to such of his experiences as have a more
decided right to be classed as psychic phenomena. It was, perhaps,
about 1891 or 1892 that he first discovered in himself some slight
tendency to supernormal perception. One of his earliest notes refers
to an incident of thought-transference, in which, however, he
apparently acted as agent and not as percipient. He had taken part
in a series of seances at the residence of people living in that part
of Rio called the Saude. One afternoon, at the hour of twilight, he
sat talking with the woman of the house, and, & propos of spiritistic
subjects, he tried for the externalisation of visual images with some
success, for he imagined the carpets strewn with violets. In the
midst of this experimentation in came Senr. Vasconcellos, a spiritist
medium, who immediately exclaimed, " What a smell of violets ! "
There were no such flowers in the house.
The following cases, in which C. was the percipient, will call
for little, if any, comment, and may be simply enumerated in their
chronological order.
(2) At the time that he was taking the Census of Hallucinations
for Brazil, he went to Novo Friburgo, a health resort on the
Organ Mountains. His inquiries, made right and left, excited
the curiosity of the hotel-keeper at whose house he had put up.
This person wanted to know all about spiritism, and with great
prolixity gave the particulars of the death of a son of his who
expired as he was holding him in his arms. C. asked mentally
for the lad's name, and immediately there came, with the characteristic
Portuguese accent of the man who was speaking to him, the answer
" Carlos." This he noted in his pocket-book ; and as soon as
he could edge in a word, he put the same question aloud. " Carlos "
was the reply. The hotel-keeper was much surprised to find
that the name had already been written.
(3) On May 30th, 1892, C. was present at a meeting of the Council
of Public Instruction. By his side sat a certain Dr. Menezes Vieira,
who was appealed to on a question of school prizes. The words
" Cantos do Conego Schmidt" (Stories of Canon Schmidt) flashed into
C.'s mind in such a manner as to lead him to suppose that it was a
transferred impression. He knew that a small volume of children's
tales having that title existed, but had no further knowledge of it.
Nevertheless, he thought of it rather contemptuously. Dr. Menezes
afterwards declared that that book had occurred to him, and that
FEB., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 187
book only, though without contempt. It is possible that this case
was one of mere casual coincidence ; but C. was inclined to regard
it at the time as due to thought-transference.
(4) One day in December of the same year, after some attempt
at clairvoyance attended with successful results, a friend of his, Senr.
Ulysses Cabral, brought him a letter to psychometrise. He held it
to his forehead and visualised the words " Amiga Ulysses." No other
letters were obtainable ; but soon the mental picture of a head was
formed, which he conjectured to be that of the writer. The hair,
which began so far back over the temples as to give almost an
appearance of baldness in that region, was black and lustrous and
was parted nearer the middle than usual. At the sides it was sinuous
and ended in curls over the ears. The nose was long and aquiline ;
the eyebrows were symmetrical ; the features regular. No beard was
worn, and the face looked somewhat thin. C. could not distinguish
whether there was a moustache. For one moment only he caught a
glimpse of the whole body. This description, so far as it went, was
said to be quite applicable to the writer of the letter, with the
exception of the colour of the hair, which was declared by Senr.
Ulysses to be reddish. It is most probable that these particulars, if
not due to lucky guessing, were obtained, not from the letter, but from
the mind of C.'s friend, who was an interested spectator of the experi
ment. The writer of the letter was a military man not known to C.
[Incident omitted here of word corresponding to C.'s thoughts
obtained through table-tilting.]
(5) On November 27th, 1893, he called at the house of an intimate
friend, an English engineer then resident in Eio. The heat had been
oppressive, and he felt worn out with his day in town. As soon as he
dropped into a chair, he closed his eyes in sheer fatigue. At the same
moment the picture of a suspension bridge was formed in mental
vision. There was nothing in his usual cogitations to suggest this
either directly or remotely. He inquired, therefore, of his friend
whether he was thinking of suspension bridges. The latter replied
that he was not, but that during the day he had been studying just
that subject. . . .
(6) In spite of repeated trials C. never succeeded in developing
automatic writing. At the most, his hand does but scrawl such dis
connected words or phrases as straggle through the brain in idle
moods. Some five or six years ago he was seated one morning at a
dining-room table where G., a Portuguese acquaintance of his, was
deeply absorbed in drawing a bouquet of flowers. Having nothing
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1902.
better to do, he took pencil and paper and waited for some subliminal
message. He wrote " Eduardo." " Do you know any one called
Eduardo ? " he inquired of his companion. The Portuguese naturally
replied that he had known several of that name. Then the word
" Coimbra " was written. G. stated in answer to another question that
he might have known an Eduardo at Coimbra, but did not recollect it.
After this unsuccessful angling, C. wrote " Bahia " and held his tongue.
Then, without any immediate associations to lead up to it, he thought
of the name of a German grammarian—Madvig, but with the middle
consonants transposed as if it were Mavdig. With this word in his
mind his hand traced rather automatically the syllable "Mav." The
first stroke of the M, however, was so faint that it looked like " Nav."
This called to mind the Portuguese word for " ship," so that finally
" Navio " was written. Then came very unexpectedly the letter C,
which doubtless from its association with the preceding word suggested
" Capitao (captain)." The experimenter was now ready with another
question : " Did you not know Eduardo, a ship's captain ? " " Oh
yes," replied G., too much occupied with his drawing to be surprised,
"he was a second father to me." "You knew him at Bahia, did you
not ? " " Yes, I travelled with him on his vessel from Valencia to
Bahia." He then proceeded to tell C. that Captain Eduardo was at
that time an old man who had taken a great liking to him and that
they had established a business together in the town of Bahia. He
thought that the Christian name was Eduardo, but he had entirely
forgotten the surname. C. knew that G. had been at Coimbra and
Bahia ; but he had never heard any previous mention of Captain
Eduardo, and his knowledge of G.'s previous career was of the
slightest. Apparently the word striving to emerge into consciousness
was really Navio. This, however, slipped into Mavdig, thus partially
assimilating a name lying on the surface memory and containing the
same vowels as Navio in the first and second syllables. The error
in the initial consonant was half corrected by accident, or by the
automatism of the hand ; and C., knowing well that "Mavdig" could
proceed only from his own brain, stopped short in the middle of the
word and then completed it in conformity with a right intuition.
[Incident omitted here of C. obtaining " fairly correct " impressions
of the personal appearance of a deceased lady unknown to him.]
(7) In the next case C. apparently sensed the probable consequences
of a project harboured in another mind. On Monday, July 10th, 1896,
he met two acquaintance of his in the street. One of them, a young
man called Jofio Mello Barreto, at once exclaimed, " Keep away from
FEB., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 189
me, you prophet of evil," or words to that effect. He explained that
he was smarting under a pecuniary loss, of which C. had given him a
kind of warning. The fact was that on a previous occasion, while the
two were taking coffee together, C. felt a strong aura, which, rightly
or wrongly, he connected with the approach of a disembodied intelli
gence interested in his companion. He had a very decided presentiment
relative to some future conduct of Senr. Barreto's. Speaking under
impulse, he told him emphatically to be very careful. He could not
say exactly in what way he was to be careful, except that it referred to
his own proceeding, possibly in some business matter. On the after
noon of that day the young man entered into a transaction that
resulted in a loss of 6 contos of reis, which, even at the low rate
of exchange which then prevailed, amounted to £239 in English
money.
[Incident omitted here of C.'s impressions, partly right and partly
wrong, about a young girl in a hospital who was being visited by his
friend, Dr. Barcellos.]
(8) On the evening of March 1st, 1898, C. was at home sitting out on
the verandah with Senr. Luiz Dias, a young Brazilian lawyer. A short
interruption to their friendly chat was occasioned by
the appearance at the door of Senr. Bias's wife, who K .
came to consult her husband on some ordinary sub- x^^-ii^Tl
ject. At this moment C. happened to close his eyes, " * *
and immediately the image of a neck with a stand-up F[r 3
collar and black necktie was formed in mental vision.
The points of the collar were turned down. Now there had been some
previous conversation on the destructive habits of the Brazilian barata,
a gigantic cockroach that frays collars and cuffs and gnaws holes in
dirty linen. Beyond this there was nothing to suggest the image formed
in C.'s brain. He, therefore, said to his friend, " Estd, pensando em
collarinhos (You are thinking of collars)." Senr. Luiz Dias confessed
that he was at that moment debating within himself whether on the
following day he should put on a stand-up or turned-down collar. The
temperature was high, he had to go to a very hot suburb, and he
perspired very freely. It is to be noticed that the image that occurred
to C. was a composite one—that is, it effected a compromise between
the two different styles of collar.
On March 3rd, 1898, the following declaration was written in Portu
guese in C.'s pocket-book : " I have heard the translation of the note
respecting the collars. It is correct. (Signed) Luiz DIAS."
[Incident omitted here of C. guessing the name of a dead child as
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1902.
Jorge. The child's name was Paulo, but he had had a brother Jorge,
previously deceased.]
(9) C. is a frequent caller at the house of Dr. Oliveira Menezes, a
professor of physics and an interested student of psychical problems.
One evening, towards the end of 1898, when in company with this
friend, he gazed into the dark shade of a doorway and idealised, rather
than visualised, a face with white side whiskers, broad cheeks, and
white hair. The head was very like that of the well-known Brazilian
statesman, Rio Branco, only the face was broader. This he described.
Dr. Menezes at once rose from his chair, and, opening an album,
showed C. a photograph corresponding exactly in appearance to the
description given. It was the doctor's father.
Such occurrences as the foregoing, although here classed as mind-
reading, leave a wide margin of doubt as to the agency really operative
in impressing the percipient's brain. That which next follows in
chronological order is more evidently a case of thought-transference
between the living.
(10) On the evening of January 21st, 1899, C. accompanied Dr.
Alfredo Barcellos in a visit to the Sao Joao Baptista Hospital, Botafogo,
and remained waiting in the entrance hall while the doctor was occu
pied in the ward. Being thus left alone with his thoughts, he desired
to know on what kind of patient his friend was attending, and in
answer to mental questions he received apparent mental replies. The
name " Catherina " first occurred to him ; but this was
rejected for "Carolina" and its familiar form "Carda."
Then with great spontaneity "14 years " flashed into his
mind. He imagined the face of a girl with straight,
glossy black hair passing over the sides of the forehead
and falling loose down her back. She had arched eye
brows and what may be described as a surprised look. As C. was trying
to see a sick person, he figured the lower part of the face thinned with
the effects of illness. She was burning in fever ; she felt a loathing for
fatty substances in her food; she had suffered from vomits. At the
same time a doubt entered his mind whether female patients were
really received in that hospital, and for a moment the mental image of
the girl gave place to that of a man with thick, light brown hair and a
stiff, full beard, coming forward under the chin in a tuft. As soon as
Dr. Barcellos came out, C. told him what he had been doing and what
his intuitions were. The doctor heard him with surprise. "Sent.
C.," exclaimed he, " you are indeed developing the telepathic faculty ! "
He explained, however, that no women were treated in that hospital,
FEB., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 191
and that in a figurative sense it was his own brain that was burning in
fever. He was much perturbed at a nascent admiration shown by his
eldest son Luiz for a girl called Carolina (and familiarly Carola), who
was 14 years old. In walking to the hospital his thoughts had been
actively engaged in devising some means of putting a stop to the affair.
The percipient did not even know that such a person as Carolina
existed ; yet her real appearance agreed fairly well with his description
of her, which would have been still more definite had he added that she
had rather high cheek bones and some peculiarity in her teeth. These
latter characteristics, mentioned by Dr. Barcellos, did not occur to him.
The second part of C.'s intuitions relative to the fever and its conse
quences was tolerably correct, although misapplied to the girl. The
patient visited was a man with lightish hair and a full stiff beard,
sweeping forward under the chin. It seems that he had suffered from
vomits, and it was quite probable that he felt a loathing for fatty sub
stances in his food. In thus verifying his mental visions, C. received
the further impression that Carolina was a good, affectionate child, and
this appeared to be Dr. Barcellos' own estimate of her character.
There were reasons, however, why he desired that his son should
be dissuaded from taking any serious step, one of them being that
Luiz was still a mere boy, and was far from having completed his
studies.
Dr. Barcellos appended to the note in C.'s pocket-book the following
brief statement : " I have heard the verbal translation of the above. It
is all quite true. (Signed) DR. BARCELLOS.
"21/1/99."
[Two incidents omitted here : (1) a rather vague description by C.
of a supposed " control " ; name guessed as Maria Eosa, the real name
being Maria Amelia; (2) C.'s impressions as to the appearance and
behaviour of the dead baby of a friend, said by the father to be
correct.]
(11) One evening in the same year (exact date not recorded) C.
paid a visit to a certain Major Daniel Vaz and his wife Dona Octavia,
who then resided at Mangueira, a suburb of Rio. Dona Leonor, a widow
lady, whom C. then saw for the first time, happened to be present, and
the conversation fell upon her deceased husband. "Ask her whether
her husband's name was not Antonio," said C. to the major. The
inquiry elicited an affirmative reply. C. fell again into a reverie, and
then exclaimed, " Catita—who was Catita ? " Dona Leonor declared
that this not very common name had belonged to a friend of hers
whom she had lost sight of for twenty years. Neither the major nor
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [FEB., 1902.
his family had known her husband's Christian name, nor did they seem
to have been aware that she had had a friend called Catita.
[Four incidents omitted here : (1) 0., trying to guess appearance of
a deceased man, sketched a head, bald at the top, with white hair over
the ears and white side whiskers (cf. ninth incident above, p. 190,
description of Dr. Menezes' father) ; this was recognised as representing
the man's partner, also deceased ; (2) C. guesses rightly the name
" George " as that of a boy—son of a Scotchman—who had just died ;
(3) C. gives description of a dead baby, said by its father to be
quite correct ; and also (4) description of a supposed spirit taking
charge of it, recognised by the father as a dead cousin of his.]
(12) At a late hour on October 17th, 1899, C., who had just
arrived in town from Botafogo, fell in with two acquaintances, Senr.
Murat and Senr. A. G. Parrot. As he took coffee with them, he
felt the divining impulse upon him, and faintly imagined a kind of
wave passing from one to the other just over their heads. " One
of you two has been in a storm at sea," he began. Both declared they
had passed through such an experience. He then directed his attention
to Senr. Parrot : " Had you not sacks of maize on board ?" " Yes,"
he replied, " a large cargo." " The saloon of the vessel was dingy
and looked as if it wanted painting." This was also confirmed. " You
had a trunk with a rounded top, covered with short reddish hairs."
" Yes," said Senr. Parrot, " it was covered with calf-skin (couro de boi)."
C. also spoke of a man whom he supposed to be one of the officers, but
the description was declared to be that of the captain. Asked whether
there were horses on board, Senr. Parrot answered that he did not
recollect whether they carried horses on that voyage. C., insisting
that the storm was a very heavy one, was informed that his intuition
was correct. It took place oif Paranagua, and the vessel was nearly
lost. The percipient pictured the hairy trunk drawn out to the middle
of the cabin in an oblique position. Inside it on the top of the
clothes was a pipe, an article rarely possessed by Brazilians, who smoke
in preference either cigarettes or cigars. These details were also said
to be hits, with the exception that the pipe was Turkish and not the
ordinary short pipe imagined by C.
(To be continued.)
No. CLXXXVIL—VOL. X. MARCH, 1902.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, - - 193
Annual General Meeting of Members of
the Society, 194
Meeting of the Council, - - - - 195
General Meeting, 197
PAGE
Balance Sheet for the Year 1901, - - 198
Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena :
Personal Experiences of C. (continued
from the February Journal), • • 199
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
ANDREWS, SAMUEL F., The Chase, Kingswood, Bristol.
BECK, REV. JOHN HENRY, M.A., Chaplain H.M. Govt. of India, Camp
Ahmedabad, India.
Bond, Frederick Bligh, 16 Brock Street, Bath.
CHETTY, M. CHENGIAH, B.A., Assist. Commissioner, Chitaldroog
District, Mysore State, India.
CONSTABLE, F. C., Wick Court, near Bristol.
DICKINSON, Miss, 9 Chesterfield Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Foster, Rev. J. Edgar, M.A., Lindsey Vicarage, Ipswich.
HIELLE, ROBERT, XIX/1 Karl-Ludwig Strasse 62, Vienna.
LEON, MRS PHILIP, 13 Cleveland Square, Hyde Park, London, W.
LEWIS, Miss, 33 Hans Place, London, S.W.
MALLONE, REV. SYDNEY HERBERT, M.A. (Lond.), D.Sc. (Edin.),
Holywood, County Down.
MUSGROVE, GEORGE H., Wool Exchange, Coleman Street, London, E.C.
NASH, JOSEPH, R. I., 36 The Avenue, Bedford Park, London, W.
RAO, Y. TRINIVOSA, B.A., Executive Engineer, Chitaldroog District,
Mysore State, India.
RiJCKER, Miss, 4 Vanbrugh Terrace, Blackheath, S.E.
SCHMIDT, JULIUS, Cornwall Cottage, 582 Woolwich Road, Charlton, S.E.
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1902.
SMITH, A. J. HUGH, Trinity College, Cambridge.
STRATTON, F. J. M., Raymead, 14 Harborne Road, Edgbaston, Bir
mingham.
SMITHSON, MRS., 42 Tilehouse Street, Hitchin.
Thompson, Robert A., 2 Westleigh Road, Narboro Road, Leicester.
TURNER, SIDNEY, Caius College, Cambridge.
YOUNG, EEV. HENRY, M.A., 36 Moore Street, Chelsea, S.W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BALLANTINE, MRS. RICHARD H., 7 Appleton Street, Cambridge, Mass.
DAILEY, JUDGE ABRAM H., 16 Court Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
FEUDNER, J., Rushville, Indiana.
GRAY, HENRY G., 5 East 30th Street, New York, N.Y.
JOHNSON, H. P., Ithaca, N.Y.
LEAVITT, DR. SHELDON, 4,665 Lake Avenue, Chicago, 111.
LIBRARIAN, University of Maine, Orona, Maine.
LUSTON, JUDGE H. H., U.S. Court of Appeals, Nashville, Tenn.
MANLEY, R. M., 554 Springfield Avenue, Summit, New Jersey.
MORRIS, CHAKLES, 2,223 Spring Garden Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
PERKINS, SIDNEY B, 142 Meigs Street, Rochester, N.Y.
PIERCE, PROF. ARTHUR H., 20 Franklin Street, Northampton, Mass.
POPE, ARTHUR U., 38 Hope College, Brown University, Providence, R.I.
QUACKENBOS, JOHN D., M.D., 331 W. 28th Street, New York, N.Y.
RAYNOR, CHARLES, 2,910 Girard Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.
ROBERTS, Miss M. CADY, Arlington, Mass.
STICKNEY, MRS. MARY W., 107 College Street, Buffalo, N.Y.
TOWER, C. B., 28 Albion Street, Hyde Park, Mass.
WILKINSON, J. P., Hawks Park, Fla.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS OF THE
SOCIETY.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society for
Psychical Research was held at the Town Hall, Westminster, on
January 31st, 1902, at 3.30 P.M.—The President, Dr. Oliver Lodge,
F.R.S., in the Chair.
The notice convening the meeting was read.
The names of the retiring Members of Council, all of whom offered
themselves for re-election, and other nominations, having been read,
the President declared the following to be duly elected Members of
MAR., 1902.] Annual General Meeting of the Society. 195
Council :—Dr. A. W. Barrett, Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, the Hon.
Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore, Sir Augustus
K. Stephenson, K.C., and Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
The President then said he had in his hands an audited statement
of the Income and Expenditure of the Society during 1901, to which
was appended the Auditor's Certificate. These would as usual be
printed in the Journal. The President also read the main items of a
Statement of Assets and Liabilities on December 31st, 1901, showing
a decided advance in the position of the Society during the year, no
account being taken of any increase in the value of the Library or of
the stock of Proceedings. This result is mainly owing to the response
received from the Society to the special Appeal issued last summer.
Turning to the position of the Society the President remarked that,
notwithstanding numerous losses by death and resignation during
the past twelve months, the total number of names on the list of the
English Society had increased during 1901 from 951 to 980. The
number on the list of the American Branch had increased from 481
to 532.
The President invited remarks from any Member present, but there
being no response, he declared the Meeting closed.
NOTE.—It should be stated that at the Meeting of the Council held
immediately after the Annual Meeting, it was agreed to strike off the
List the names of thirty Members and Associates who had either
removed or been lost sight of, or who had been only nominal members,
for two or three years. The number of names on the English list, at
the commencement of the present year, after deducting the resignations
at the end of 1901, is therefore 950.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met at the close of the Annual General Meeting above
reported. The President occupied the chair. There were also present :
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., the Hon. Everard Feilding, Miss Alice
Johnson, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. George Lane Fox Pitt, Mr. F.
Podmore, Mrs. H. Sidg'wick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Col. Le M. Taylor,
and Mrs. Verrall.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Report was made that the Annual General Meeting had been held,
and that Members of Council had been elected as stated above.
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1902.
Dr. Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S., was re-elected as President of the Society
for the current year.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Mr. Arthur Miall
were re-elected as Hon. Treasurer, Hon. Secretary, and Auditor
respectively for the current year.
A letter was read from Dr. J. Venn, resigning his seat on the
Council and his membership in the Society. The resignation was
accepted with regret.
The following were co-opted as Members of Council for the ensuing
year :—Mr. Ernest N. Bennett, Mr. M. Crackanthorpe, K.C., Dr. R.
Hodgson, Miss Alice Johnson, Dr. G. F. Eogers, Mr. F. C. S. Schiller,
Col. Le M. Taylor, and Mrs. Verrall
Committees were elected as follows, with power in each case to add
to their number : —
Committee of Reference—Professor W. F. Barrett, Sir W. Crookes,
Dr. E. Hodgson, Dr. W. Leaf, Dr. Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Lord Eayleigh, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mr. F. Podmore, and Mrs. Verrall:
Library Committee.—The Hon. E. Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Mr. F. Podmore, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
Committee for Experiments.—Mr. W. W. Baggally, Dr. A. W. Barrett,
Mr. Ernest N. Bennett, Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, Hon. E. Feilding,
Dr. E. Hodgson, Dr. W. Leaf, Mr. St. George Lane Fox Pitt, Mr. F.
Podmore, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Lieut.-Colonel Le M. Taylor, Dr. C.
Lloyd Tuckey, Dr. A. Wallace, and Mr. E. Westlake.
House and Finance Committee.—Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. F. Pod-
more, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, and Lieut.-Colonel
Le M. Taylor.
Last year's lists of Corresponding Members and of Honorary
Associates were confirmed for the ensuing year with the following
alterations :—Professor Sabatier, a Corresponding Member, and Mrs.
Wingfield, an Honorary Associate, were both deceased ; Mr. Donald
Murray and Mr. E. T. Nisbet, both Hon. Associates, having, by their
desire, become subscribing Members of the Society, their names were
transferred to the general list; and the names of Dr. Alice B. Brill
and Mr. E. T. Bennett, who had been elected, as such, were added to
the list of Hon. Associates.
Three new Members and nineteen new Associates were elected. The
election of nineteen new Associates of the American branch was re
corded. Names and addresses are given above.
The resignation of one Member and twenty-one Associates, who for
MAR., 1902.] Meeting of the Council. 197
various reasons desired to terminate their connection with the Society
at the end of 1901, was accepted.
Some presents to the Library were reported, for which a vote of
thanks was passed to the donors.
The audited Statement of Accounts was referred to the House and
Finance Committee, who were requested to prepare an estimate of
Income and Expenditure for the current year, and present it with their
report to the next meeting of the Council.
The Committee in reference to new rooms for the Society reported
progress in regard to negotiations they were engaged in. They sub
mitted certain proposals to the Council, and were authorised to bring
them to a conclusion if they saw their way to do so.
Several other matters of business were discussed. Since it was
found that no date could at present be fixed either for the next General
Meeting or for the next meeting of the Council, it was left to the Hon.
Secretary to make arrangements for them, which will be announced in
the Journal as soon as possible.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 116th General Meeting of the Society was held in the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, January 31st, at 5 p.m.—the President,
Dr. LODGE, in the chair.
THK PRESIDENT delivered an Address, which was devoted to general
considerations, with the object of informing not only new Members
and Associates, but also to some extent the general public and scientific
men, as to the scope and aims of the Society, showing what has been
so far certainly attained in the direction of our inquiry, and what effect
a full consideration of the evidence available on points still undecided
has produced on a trained scientific mind. To this end something was
said on each of the following topics : —
(1) The current explanations of trance lucidity and clairvoyance.
(2) The strange physical phenomena sometimes accompanying
trance.
(3) The views concerning these ultra-normal human faculties that
most appealed to the President himself.
In some cases the reality of the facts was questioned ; in other cases
the current hypotheses were criticised; and the validity and far-
reaching influence of Mr. Myers' hypothesis of the subliminal self was
emphasised.
This Address will be published immediately in the Proceedings.
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1902.
§
P5
eo
Cb
fei
1
5n
g
fca
&l
I
9
as if]
lH 03 «_
^ o ooooo t-.
»s -. £ c''^
ft'*^ -
02 rH * rH
t,^ic
S 111
rH rH TH
OS CO CM iH <£> rH
CJ OO OS .* CC lO
rH t>- rH
S 3!2 09
||8
w N
1
CD
Balance
broughfrom
last
—T
.000 =
> CO
d
ooo i
CO O 5O I
rH rH i—I
CO OS t>-
T-HOCO
«.!
.43 «
.g*
'
- 1 siS|^|I«
I'l i^j III:
.a- .sliKollll
.- ,*3
to -
est
Contribu PartX Interest
S d
^ e3
3!i'~ *
2 it a
§s-^?4
§.§ rZi,S
^2£:1 =
*$~2X3
a c _- = 5
."*' §^ —
« a,€ C
S? > - *
s!J^
sr""35
|g^=5
S i = — .g
Sfel&l
§
MAR., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 199
MIND EEADING AND ALLIED PHENOMENA.
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES OF C.
(Continued from the February Journal, page 192.)
(13) On the 22nd of November, 1899, was held one of the Mangueira
seances. Besides some of the usual sitters, there were present a certain
Senr. Almeida and his wife Dona Amelia, whom C. saw that evening
for the first time. During a trance manifestation of rather doubtful
genuineness there were allusions to a deceased son of the lady, a boy
called Gustavo. After the sitting C. guessed rightly at Gustavo's
height, and made a sketch of the lad's face. This was said to be like
him ; but as he imagined the hair to be black, whereas it was really
light in colour, he himself was not disposed to attach much importance
to his intuitions. During a brief absence of the lady he remained
seated at the table searching within his mind for some more satisfactory
proofs of identity. It was then that the idea came to him of a
characteristic mark with its exact locality on one of the cheeks. Now,
Gustavo was Dona Amelia's son by a first marriage, and Senr. Almeida,
her second husband, did not remember him sufficiently to say whether
C.'s guess was right or wrong. He called in his wife and asked
her whether the lad had any mark on his face. She replied affirma
tively, saying it was like a wart which she herself had over her upper
lip. At the same time she laid her finger on one of her cheeks on the
exact spot which C. had pointed to on his own face during her absence
from the room. (C. neglected to note at the time which cheek was
thus indicated.) Dona Amelia then requested the percipient to notice
how Gustavo carried his head. It is possible, but not certain, that
some vague intuition respecting this had existed in C.'s mind before
his attention was called to it. He replied to the lady's satisfaction by
declining his head forward and to the right side. " It was thus," said
he. Such an attitude was suggestive of a meek disposition, and the
further assertion that Gustavo must have been gentle and courteous in
manner was declared by Senr. Almeida and his wife to be perfectly
true. The percipient, who in some of these experiments is prone
to imagine disembodied intelligences as the source of his information,
supposed that Gustavo was right there, and that he was well pleased
with the proofs given of his identity. From facts elicited during the
sitting he knew that Gustavo must have died when already an
adolescent.
(14) C. rarely obtains telepathic impressions during regular sittings.
In the foregoing case it has been seen that certain veridical intuitions
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1902.
were received by him after a seance had terminated and when the
minds of the people present had relaxed from the tenseness of attention
called by Brazilian Spiritists concentration. . . . The following instance
of mind-reading, which occurred in the family circle of a certain Senr.
Gruilherme Vianna . . . was obtained in an interval of general mental
relaxation ; the conditions were not those of the ordinary Eio sitting.
" Constanta," the first wife of that gentleman, was supposed to be
manifesting through a trance medium. As the " control " conversed
familiarly with the sitters, C. imagined her dressed in a loose peignoir,
with a lock of hair falling forward over one of her shoulders close to
the neck. She was holding a little dog in her arm ; and, if C.'s
memory is to be trusted, he thought vaguely of the dog as being
mimosa. (This untranslatable adjective indicates prettiness and grace
fulness in a small compass.) In answer to questions Senr. Vianna
confirmed C.'s description of the morning dress of his deceased wife,
and recognised as characteristic of her the style of hair seen. She was
very fond of dogs, 'and had a little pet called Mimosa. A portrait of
Dona Constanga exists at Senr. Vianna's house, but neither the loose
lock nor the peignoir are therein represented.
Some time after this incident, in a visit to Senr. Guilherme Vianna,
who was in failing health, it occurred to C. that " Constanga " might
well be drawn in thought to her husband. He imagined her passing
her hands over his forehead, and he described these as being long and
thin. This was a decided hit, for, according to Senr. Vianna, she had
remarkably long thin fingers.
(15) When Brazilian friends meet in the street, and desire to pro
long their interview, they usually adjourn to a c.af6 and chat at one of
the small tables over a cup of coffee. It was thus that, on January 7th,
1900, C. conversed once more with the Senr. Eaimundo Pereira e Souza
referred to in a preceding case. The latter mentioned that he had
been active in the work of freeing slaves. He was about to call on an
old abolitionist companion ; and the projected visit, it seems, reminded
him mentally of a certain Joaquim, who was a capitao do mato (captain
of the woods) in the bad old slavery days—that is, he was a man who
lived by capturing fugitive slaves and restoring them to their owners.
Senr. Raimundo said nothing of this passing memory, but it was
perhaps Apropos of this that he referred to certain strange sensations
and a kind of terror that sometimes came upon him when, his wife
having gone to church, he found himself on Sundays alone in the
house with the children. C. fell into one of his guessing moods, and,
guided by the faint imagery in his mind, described a big negro about
MAR., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 201
FIG
In such
six feet in height, with broad shoulders and a deep chest. The name
" Joaquim " occurred to him. The negro was thought of as bare-footed
and bare-headed, and seemed to carry a stick or a whip in his right
hand. He was very dark in colour. He wore a
kind of shirt made of sackcloth. His trousers
were tattered. Both these and the shirt sleeves
were rolled up. According to Senr. Raimundo,
the description given and the sketch afterwards
made corresponded with the appearance of the
capit&o do mato whose name had been guessed, and
of whose former existence C. now became aware
for the first time. Joaquim, however, carried a
walking-stick and not a whip. Senr. Raimundo
and his companions had this man well beaten near
the house of a Captain Senra. It seems that the
negro rolled down a steep bank and was much
hurt. As C. listened to this account he imagined
the man with his head broken and bloody. A
year or two after this assault—about 1887—Joaquim died.
imperfect visualisation there is much that may be due to mere fancy.
In the beginning the percipient imagined that the face of the negro
wore a sardonic grin. Perhaps the latter, who in his lifetime attributed
the beating to Captain Senra, had discovered after death who his
enemies really were. Perhaps it was his drawing near to Senr.
Raimundo in hours of solitude that caused the otherwise inexplicable
feeling of terror. Such were the conjectures of the moment. C. gave
advice in accordance with his impressions, and told his friend to pray
for Joaquim and ask pardon for what he had done. He was to talk
to his companion on the subject. As he thus spoke he imagined,
perhaps absurdly, that the hard smile had passed away from the
negro's face, and given place to tears.
(16) On the afternoon of the same day C. went up the Paula Mattos
hill to call on some new friends, Senr. Marcondes Rezende and his
American wife, Dona Louise Rezende. His coming had been announced
some half hour before his arrival, for a person of the household who
was very sensitive to telepathic impacts had written on a slate, " Senr.
G. vem vindo (Senr. C. is coming)." In the evening Dona Louise
challenged C. to give her a description of her mother, who lived in
North America. The guesses made were for the greater part correct,
but were too vague and unimportant to merit enumeration. After a
time C. thought of Murillo's picture of the Virgin and Child. He
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1902.
supposed that a copy of this formed part of the belongings of Dona
Louise's mother. He imagined it hanging on the wall of a dark bed
room beside a four-poster furnished with light curtains. He had an
idea, not immediately spoken of, that the picture was set in a frame of
some dark-coloured wood, oval inside and square on the outer edge.
Very vaguely some gilding or ornamental work was thought of in this
connection. Dona Louise could say nothing as to the kind of room in
which the picture was hanging ; but that it existed, and was a favourite
one with her mother, she positively affirmed. It had been framed in
fulfilment of a vow made in childbirth. It was set in walnut wood,
and was probably ornamented with some gilding. Though the lady
somewhat hesitated as to whether the frame were not oval on the outer
edge and square inside, yet she was inclined to believe that the descrip
tion given of its shape was really correct. Her mother prized both
this picture and another of St. Rita very highly, and these two objects
of Catholic devotion had accompanied her in all her moves.
(17) It was about this time that a lady in England, being anxious
that her son, Mr. T., who was then stationed at Eio, should know
something of Spiritualism, wrote to C., asking him to meet the young
man, and take him where he might see some phenomena. C. went
with him to Paula Mattos, where some automatic script was obtained
through the hand of Dona Louise. This was not satisfactory : Mr. T.
had lost a brother, of whose continued existence he would willingly
have received some proof. The medium, however, wrote under the
impression that he wished to receive a message from his father.
Meanwhile C. obtained some inkling of the character and bearing of
the young man who had died. He imagined him with his head thrown
back. He supposed him to have a certain swing of the shoulders in
walking, and to be one of those unceremonious persons who are prone
to slap their friends on the back and hail them with, "Halloo, Jack !"
or some similar expression. Mr. T. seemed to be struck with this
description of his brother, and asked C. to give him the Christian
name. On this point, however, the percipient's mind remained a
blank. A rather full account of these proceedings having been sent to
the lady correspondent, she replied that C.'s impressions were quite of
the nature of a proof, as they exactly expressed the manners and
bearing of the son she had lost. " The swing of the shoulders," she
said, " used to be noticed when he was quite a little boy."
(18) Attracted by the friendly simplicity of the Rezendes, and by
the beautiful Christian character of Dona Louise (now deceased), C.
became a constant caller at their house after they had moved into his
MAR., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 203
neighbourhood. In their company he sometimes made successful
guesses, of which he neglected to take timely notes. The following
instance of these must therefore be related from memory. One evening
the Rezendes were talking about Father Lopes, a priest with whom
they had lived on intimate terms at a place called Faxina, in the
south of the State of Sao Paulo. While listening abstractedly to their
recollections C. became attentive to what was passing in his own mind.
He pictured an individual wearing a Turkish cap and a cloak tied
under the chin with strings. It did not at first occur to him that this
visualisation had any reference to the subject of conversation. Having
made a sketch in pencil of the head he had imagined, he passed it to
Senr. Rezende, who covered it with ink, and then declared it was a
perfect likeness of Father Lopes, an opinion in which Dona Louise
concurred. It may have been that C. was slightly guided in making
this drawing by one or two remarks made by his friends. The mental
image of a manuscript led him to conjecture that Father Lopes had
handed over to Senr. Rezende some legal document. He seems to
have been wrong on one or two minor points, but the greater part of his
guesses were fully confirmed. The priest habitually wore a Turkish cap,
and he had just such a cloak as the one described. These cloaks, it is
said, are common at Faxina, but they are rarely, if ever, met with in
Rio de Janeiro. The Rezendes were much pleased with the sketch—
perhaps more so than was the seer himself. Before his death Father
Lopes had made Senr. Rezende a present of the title deed of some house
property. The document was shown to C. on the occasion, and he
noticed that its style of handwriting was different from that which had
been presented to him in mental vision.
[Five incidents, here omitted, conclude this section of the paper :
(1) C. sketches from intuition the portrait of a deceased priest, said by
his acquaintances to be a striking likeness; (2) he guesses correctly
that Dr. Barcellos' dead mother wore a mantilla and had a habit of
stroking her side hair ; (3) he describes correctly a lady's dead husband
and another person, whom she identifies as a friend of his ; (4) he guesses
correctly that a barber, known for his charitable habits, is nursing a
sick friend, with some correct details of the patient's condition; (5) he
succeeds in making a stranger, seated opposite to him in a street car,
execute a movement which he was silently willing her to perform.
The next section of the paper is headed Clairvoyance, but the
incidents described are very slight and inconclusive. Some experi
ments were made by C. in trying to guess words in certain places
in books; e.g. the 2nd word on the 12th line of the 12th page, no one
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1902.
knowing what the word was ; out of 31 experiments, 6 were successful,
4 partially so, and 21 unsuccessful; but most of the words rightly
guessed were rather common ones.
A section on Telepathy follows, recounting a few instances which
C. says he " is inclined to regard as due to spontaneous telepathy."
These were emotional impressions coinciding more or less closely with
the deaths of relatives or friends, but in some of the cases (though not
all) he was expecting the death, and it was only in these cases that the
coincidence could be proved to be close. He also gives a number of
instances where his thoughts were strongly directed to his friend,
Dr. Barcellos, either just before meeting him in the street or at a time
when Dr. Barcellos was specially thinking or speaking of him.
The concluding section of the paper is headed
TELEPATHY FROM THE DEAD.
0. observes of the first experience he describes : " It presents
much that may be attributed to mind-reading or thought-transference ;
yet if the hypothesis of post-mortem agency be admitted, it must be
conceded that it also shows traces of telepathy from the dead." This
experience was as follows : In the early part of 1896, certain
apparently supernormal incidents having occurred in a series, he wrote
" from intuition " that proof would soon come, and shortly afterwards
found the word "Amor " formed in lines of pencil dust on a card left by
him in a private drawer for the purpose of experiment. Later the
word was spelt out by table-tilting at a seance in his presence, when he
was thinking about it, his hands not being on the table. On May
22nd, 1896, he was introduced to Senr. Ismael Pinto, a Kardecist
clairvoyant; he tried to make him think of the word Adeus, but the
clairvoyant said he saw the word Amor. Immediately after this,
C. went to have his hair cut at his usual hairdresser's, Senr. Santos
Guimaraes, to whom he related the above. Senr. Guimaraes in turn
told him of some experiences of his own, one relating to an adopted
daughter named Maria, and the other in connection with the death of
his second wife. The account continues] :
(19) C. listened to the above narratives with attention, at the same
time that he kept watch for any images or intuitions that might occur to
his own mind. He first had an idea that Guimaraes' wife was also called
Maria, and this was afterwards found to be right. The name, however,
might have been suggested by the story of the girl with the basket [the
adopted daughter] ; and as it was also a very common one among the
Portuguese, he did not make it the subject of immediate inquiry. A
MAR., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 205
second guess was " Amelia" which was wide of the mark, unless,
indeed, it was an approximation to " Emilia," the name of Senr.
Guimaraes' mother. C. then mentally asked for some proof of
identity ; and, seeing with more than usual distinctness the image
of a diminutive white rose, he conjectured that such a flower was-
placed upon Maria Guimaraes as she lay in her coffin. At
the same time he recollected that white flowers were not cus
tomarily employed when the dead person had been married.
Guimaraes, however, affirmed that she had been covered with white
roses. Another guess was that she was buried at a place called
Catumby. This was not correct, and was no more than a
surmise founded on C.'s vague recollection of the fact that
she and her husband had lived in that neighbourhood.
Afterwards he saw in profile the upper part of a face with
a very retreating forehead, full eyes and regular nose. This
he drew in outline ; and although the sketch was very
incomplete, the barber did not hesitate in recognising it
as a likeness of his deceased wife. C. sensed the influence
as a happy one, and he felt justified in transmitting to
Senr. Guimaraes the emotional message, <; Much affection."
Subsequently he obtained a definite idea of the mouth and
chin, so that the side view of the face was completed and
declared to be correct, but when he filled in the rest of the head from
mere conjecture and showed it to Senr. Guimaraes, the latter affirmed
that only the profile which had been obtained intuitionally bore any
real resemblance to the original.
On May 26th C. sat alone in his sleeping-room trying for automatic
writing. He wrote the name " Maria" and afterwards " Guimaraes."
Having asked for further proofs of identitity, the experimenter sought
for an answer rather in visual terms than in the disconnected and
partly illegible words traced by his hand on the paper. Thereupon
came dim fragmentary images of ships ; he imagined himself under
the bows of an ocean steamer ; then his vision was focussed for a
moment or so on a distant vessel thrown on her beam ends in a rough
sea so that the deck was visible. He had an idea that she carried
many people on board. Immediately afterwards a boat with green
bows was pictured coming up over a large wave. She was also full
—perhaps she was bringing away persons from the endangered vessel.
There was nothing vivid and decided in all this. The series was more
like the faint memory images of events far removed in time. Mean
while C. had scrawled on the paper among much that was illegible the
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1902.
words " bornt" and "swound," probably misspellings of "burnt" and
" swooned." From these inklings of passive and motor automatism he
drew, with anything but confidence, the following conclusions : Maria
Guimaraes had been in some shipwrecked or burning vessel ; she had
been taken off in a boat that was painted green, she fainted on the
occasion. The whole affair seemed to be so very improbable that C.
hesitated to speak to Senr. Guimaraes about it. On Saturday, May
30th, he told his experience to Senr. Pinto, the clairvoyant above
mentioned. The latter at once began experimenting by gazing at the
dark cover of a book which C. had laid down. The description given
suggested to him the same scenes ; but from what he saw he supposed
that the wreck had taken place in the early morning. Thus encouraged,
C. returned to Senr. Guimaraes, whom he found engaged with a
customer. Approaching the subject in a guarded manner, he reminded
him of their late topic of conversation, and asked whether the person
spoken of had at any time been in great danger on the sea. Guimaraes'
affirmative reply, given with an air of much seriousness, threw C. into
a state of excited astonishment. In answer to more direct questions
the barber stated that Dona Maria and her mother had been in a
shipwreck, that it was in the early morning, and that they had been
saved in a boat. He could not, however, say what the colour of the
boat was, and he did not know whether the ship sank or not. C.
hurried back to Senr. Pinto and told him of the result of his question
ing. At request this gentleman made a written statement, the
principal value of which is the proof it affords that C.'s intuitions were
recounted to a second person before steps were taken to verify their
exactness. The translation of this statement here follows :
" Shortly after 3 o'clock in the afternoon of the 30th of the current
month of May, C. related his visions to me, saying that in a mental
picture he saw a ship being wrecked1 and persons who were being
saved in a boat. Concentrating [my attention] I gazed fixedly at the
dark border of a book and saw the same images that he had described,
with the addition that the situation in which the ship was seen
was really that of a wreck ; moreover, the growing light on that side
showed that the shipwreck had taken place in the early morning.
The same C. affirmed that the shipwreck was part of the life experience
of Maria Guimaraes, the wife of Senr. Guimaraes.2 Having left our
1 This is not quite correct. C. had a mental picture of a ship tossed in a heavy
sea and said so.
2 When C. told his experience to Senr. Pinto, he of course could not, and did
not, affirm this positively. It was a mere conjecture.
MAE., 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 207
place C. returned ten minutes afterwards, saying that he had asked
Senr. Guimaraes whether this had really happened or not. The latter
had replied affirmatively. The occurrence had taken place as above
related. " (Signed) ISMAEL AUGUSTO PINTO.
" 32 RUA DE OONCALVES DlAS,
" 3.40 P.M., May 30th, 1896."
Further questioning elicited the information that Senr. Guimaraes
married his second wife in 1873, shortly after her arrival in Brazil from
the Azores. She died on June 22nd, 1885. Her maiden name was
Maria de Mattos Mendonca, her mother being called Anna Guilhermina
Mendonca. It appeared that, excepting his knowledge of the danger
incurred by the vessel (which he supposed to have amounted to actual
shipwreck) and one or two striking personal incidents, Guimaraes had
very hazy and probably erroneous ideas respecting the occurrence. It
took place before his marriage, and his wife did not willingly refer to
an event which had inspired her with so much terror. Some of the
details given by him in apparent good faith were thrown into complete
discredit by subsequent inquiries. He was almost certainly wrong in
the date he gave and wrong in the name of the vessel. He did not
afterwards appear to be certain that the supposed wreck took place in
the early morning. He was sure, however, that Dona Anna Mendonqa
and her daughter were taken off in a boat, and that Maria Mendo^a
was placed in it in a fainting condition, and recovered consciousness
only after she had been landed. Dona Anna herself had shown great
courage. He had never before spoken to C. on this subject, and, in
general, he was not accustomed to refer to his wife's adventure in his
conversation. There was a book of dressmaking accounts for 1882 in
Senr. Guimaraes' possession which was said to have contained a note
of the occurrence. The leaf whereon the note had been written had,
however, been torn out by the children. His daughter thought that
the vessel was the galera (full-rigged ship) Maria da Gloria, and with
this clue C. made diligent inquiries at the Portuguese Consulate and
among shipping agents. The result of his investigations was the
information that in 1873 the Maria da Gloria, a vessel trading between
Brazil and the Azores, touched at the island of Sao Miguel and received
passengers for Fayal. Off this port she met with a gale and was
injured by the swell, probably springing a leak, for they had to work
the pumps. The passengers were landed in a boat or boats. The
vessel, which was not lost on this occasion, afterwards went into dock
for repairs. Now, Dona Anna and her daughter came from Sao
Miguel, and the date of their voyage to Brazil coincides with that of
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAR., 1902.
the gale suffered by the Maria da Gloria. The circumstances inde
pendently verified by C. were very similar to those remembered by
Senr. Guimaraes and his daughter ; and as the latter believed the ship
to have been the Maria da Gloria, it becomes highly probable that C.'s
intuitions faithfully reflected a real occurrence. C. was also informed
that green paint, being cheap, is much used by Portuguese sailors, and
that their boats would probably have that colour. The ship, which
was afterwards sold at Lisbon, seems to have been subsequently lost in
a voyage to the States.
On January 25th, 1899, Senr. Guimaraes told C. that he had been
much worried, and that in the night-time he had heard a voice like that
of his second wife telling him to have patience, for he had to fulfil his
destiny. C. then described the manner in which Dona Maria used to
be attired. She wore a dress of Scotch check, the green colour pre
dominating. There was a narrow collar turned down over the dress,
but not joining in front. A black brooch, probably of jet, forming two
symmetrical coils, was worn. These guesses were fully confirmed by
the barber. His wife was very fond of Scotch patterns for her dresses,
and she used to wear a brooch of the form described, which was still in
his possession. Five days later, however, Guimaraes happened to say
Fid. 8.
that there was some ornament in the centre of the brooch, omitted in
the description. An idea of this in outline was obtained by C. as here
shown. It was afterwards said to be a rosette which adapted itself to
the turns of the brooch. The percipient spoke of Dona Maria's hearty
laughter, and found that he was right in supposing that she had a
merry disposition. He assured the barber, with a conviction that he
was speaking the truth peculiar to such introspective moods, that his
wife was quite happy, and that she followed him from afar in thought,
although she no longer drew near to earth conditions. An attempt was
made to enter into more satisfactory communication with Maria Gui
maraes at a sitting conducted by Senr. Ismael Pinto ; but as soon as this
ardent Kardecist began his invocation to guardian angels, good spirits,
and his patron saint, St. Michael, C. felt, as it were, the inrush of a dark
cloud. It is enough to say that the seance was worse than a failure.
[A few minor incidents relating to experiences probably not more
than subjective are here omitted.]
(To be continued.)
No. CLXXXVIII.—VOL. X. APRIL, 1902.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE ' Correspondence : PAGE
New Members and Associates, • 209 Professor Hyslop on some Criticisms
Meeting of the Council, - - 210 of his Report on Mrs. Piper, - 212
The New Rooms of the Society, - • 211 Telepathic Experimentation, - 228
Correction, 224
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
BARROW, Miss, Eureka Camp, Jamaica.
BOWDEN, ERNEST M., 35 Bedford Place, W.C.
BURY, HENRY, Mayfield House, Farnham.
CAPPER, THOMAS, Kingston, Jamaica.
Cowper-Coles, 8. 0., 26 Grosvenor Mansions, Victoria Street, S.W.
COPLEY, ALFRED B., York Villa, Belvoir Drive, Old Aylestone, Leicester.
ENGALL, JOHN S., 76 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W.
GORDON-MARCH, G., Maclea House, Emsworth.
Hales, Henry, Elmwood, Kenley, Surrey.
LIBRARIAN, Univ. of Paris, per H. Welther, 4 Rue Bernard, Palissy, Paris.
LOEWENSTEIN, E., 43A Maria-Louisen Strasse, Hamburg, Germany.
RAINES, LADY JULIUS, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, W.
SHUTTLEWORTH, Miss C. J., 10 Cottesmore Gardens, Kensington, W.
SAMY, MAHMOUD, R.I.E.C., Coopers Hill, Englefield Green, Surrey.
TATE, T. B., R.I.E.C., Coopers Hill, Englefield Green, Surrey.
Torre, Mrs. E. F., 9 Cumberland Terrace, Regent's Park, London.N.W.
WRIGHT, WILLIAM, M.B., F.R.C.S., The University, Birmingham.
ZAHN, G. P. H., Weistraat, 83, Utrecht, Holland.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ALTGELD, F. A., 10 South Kentucky Avenue, Atlantic City, N.J.
ANDERSON, 0. W., 512 Masonic Temple, Minneapolis.
BERG, PHILIP, Tamlor, Wis.
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, [APRIL, 1902.
HANSON, H. P., c/o R. F. D. ROUTE, No. 2, Harlan, Iowa.
HOGG, ANDREW, 537 West 9th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.
HOLMES, DR. H. P., 512 2nd Avenue, Troy, N.Y.
HOWE, H. A., Newfane, Vermont.
LIBRARIAN, Maine State Library, Augusta, Maine.
LOVETT, GEORGE 0., Madison, Kansas.
MILLIKEN, DR. G. G., 1524 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
MOREHOUSE, MRS. G. E., 207 Huntingdon Avenue, Boston, Mass.
OSTBY, DR. 0. A., Fairbault, Minn.
STRANAHAN, J. J., Supt. U.S. Fish. Comm., Bullochville, Georgia.
TAYLOR, R. BAKER, Box 618, Norfolk, Va.
WATERS, JOHN R., 54 Franklin Street, New York, N.Y.
WOODWARD, Fred E., Box 832, Washington, D.C.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met at 19 Buckingham Street, W.C., on March 21st, at
4.30 P.M.—The President, Dr. Oliver Lodge, in the chair. There were
also present:—Miss Alice Johnson, Mr. St. George Lane Fox Pitt,
Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. H.
Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Sir Augustus K. Stephenson, Col. Le
M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, and Mrs. Verrall.
Mr. W. W. Baggally and Mr. A. F. Shand were co-opted as Members
of the Council for the current year.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and signed as correct.
Three new Members and fifteen new Associates were elected. The
election of sixteen new Associates of the American Branch was recorded.
Names and addresses are given above.
The Council recorded with regret the death of Mr. Denis R. Pack-
Beresford, an Associate of the Society.
A present to the Library was reported, for which a vote of thanks
was passed to the donor.
The House and Finance Committee presented an estimate of the
Income and Expenditure of the Society for the current year.
The Committee appointed to negotiate for new Rooms for the Society
submitted a draft Lease for twenty-one years of some rooms at 20
Hanover Square, London, W. After full discussion the draft was
approved, and Mr. H. Arthur Smith and Mr. Sydney C. Scott were
appointed a Sub-Committee to affix the seal of the Society to the
engrossment of the Lease when ready for execution.
APRIL, 1902.] Meeting of the Council. 211
Several other matters with regard to the arrangement and furnishing
of the new Rooms were discussed.
It was not found possible to fix any date for a General Meeting, or
for the next meeting of the Council. Information on these points will
be given in a later number of the Journal.
THE NEW BOOMS OF THE SOCIETY.
WE are glad to be able to inform our readers that the Society has
just entered into possession of its new rooms at 20 Hanover Square,
London, W. The situation is one which it is hoped will be found
more convenient and generally accessible for members than our old
premises, and the rooms themselves are larger and more commodious.
The set consists of a large room, 20 feet by 17 feet, a smaller one,
17 feet by 13 feet, and a store-room between the two, with space for
the storage of Proceedings, for which hitherto extra rent has had to be
paid. The rooms are on the fourth floor of the house, but a lift up to
the second floor is being erected. They will be open for the present
every week-day from 1 1 a.m. to 5 p.m.
The house is occupied by a large number of scientific and other
societies, including the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, Clinical
Society, Japan Society, Pathological Society, Quekett Microscopical
Club, Royal Archaeological Institute, etc., and our rooms are the
property of the Koyal Medical and Chirurgical Society.
They are hired at a rent of £140 per annum, but this rental includes
the use of a large hall on the ground floor for our General Meetings
three times in the year and of a smaller hall, also on the ground floor,
seven or eight times in the year, in which the proposed private
meetings, for members and associates only, can be held.
Even with the deductions thus involved, the necessary additional
expenditure will be a serious tax on the income of the Society. Our
readers will remember that in the Journal for last June was printed
an Address by the Council to the Society, urging the necessity
for an increased income if the work already achieved was to be
continued and carried forward in a manner worthy of our past history.
It was suggested that funds were needed especially for two objects
(1) the appointment of a competent organising secretary, who would
devote all his time to the work; (2) to enable us to take larger and
more convenient rooms, which would be more accessible to members
for consultation or intercourse, and in which small meetings for informal
discussion and experiments might be held.
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1902..
Last October the first of these objects was attained, as we were then
fortunate enough to secure the services of Mr. N. W. Thomas as
organising secretary ; and now, after a considerable amount of labour
on the part of the Committee appointed to negotiate for the hiring of
rooms, our new offices have been taken.
The present seems therefore a suitable moment to remind our
readers that the response to the Council's appeal, though considerable,
has not yet been sufficient to meet the necessary additional expenses.
The donations received or promised up to the present amount to
£151. 10s. and the annual subscriptions to £114. 2s. Further con
tributions will be gladly received by the Hon. Treasurer, H. ARTHUR
SMITH, Esq., 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[ The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by Correspondents. ]
PROFESSOR HYSLOP ON SOME CRITICISMS OF HIS REPORT ON
MRS. PIPER.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL OP THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
February 13th, 1902.
I think I ought to correct some misunderstanding in Mrs. Barker's admir
able letter published in the January Journal, which was a little delayed
in reaching me. In doing so, however, I wish to express my appreciation
of the critical spirit which she has shown in regard to my report, especially
as it is so hard to induce our scientific Philistines to see the possibilities
with which we have to contend in the attempt to defend a spiritistic
hypothesis, and most especially when it is conceived as aiming at demonstra
tion regarding the survival and identity of a particular individual. Mrs.
Barker has apparently thought the problem out to its full extent, and
certainly sees some of the difficulties in the way of entertaining a demon
strated spiritism, while the average scientific man simply sneers at all
theories alike, even of any supernormal character. It is impossible to get
him even to look at the matter. Mrs. Barker's attitude, therefore, is quite
a welcome one, and in reply I wish only to correct what I understand is an
entire misapprehension of my position. This may be natural enough, con
sidering the massive character of my report, but it is a misapprehension
nevertheless, and I cannot do a better thing at present, perhaps, than to
correct it for all readers accessible by the Journal while the subject is a
matter of consideration in reading the report.
It is apparent that Mrs. Barker has read and criticised my report with
APRIL, 1902.] Correspondence. 213
the assumption that it claims to be a demonstration of spiritism. Speaking of
the allegations of Mystic Brotherhoods and Occult Societies, as hypotheses
that might stand in the way of demonstrated spiritism, she says: "Are we
at liberty to claim as proved conclusions which depend for their truth upon
the falsity of what those people assert, before we have proved its falsity ?"
Let me indicate by numbers the various points to be made in reply to the
several positions at least hypothetically assumed by Mrs. Barker.
(1) I do not make any claim for the demonstration of spiritism. On the
contrary, I distinctly disavowed any such pretensions. See pp. 4 (footnote),
86, 90, 244-247, 290-291, and especially pp. 295, 296, where I think I anti
cipate and answer, by implication at least, every point raised by Mrs.
Barker's animadversions. Many other statements, too brief to mention
here, were also made in disclaimer of Mrs. Barker's point of view.
(2) If Mrs. Barker will read carefully what I said on pp. 244-247 about
'. proof," she will appreciate more clearly the position that I hold in regard
to other possible theories, and the measure of assurance to be held regard
ing spiritism. I try to show there and elsewhere that the question is
merely as to a preference between alternative possibilities, with the
credentials in favour of spiritism so far as the evidence at hand goes.
What the future might offer is not considered until it puts in its evidence.
(3) Mrs. Barker entirely misunderstands the function of science in the
case, when proposing the claims of Mysticism and Occultism against the
spiritistic theory. Science is a body of truths or hypotheses which have
presented empirical credentials in their favour, and are to be modified by the
same methods. Until Mysticism and Occultism can condescend to give
experimental evidence of their claims, they are so much a priori rubbish to
be disregarded. I do not deny their a priori possibility, but the problem, as
I have presented it in my report, in the absence of all scientific support for
opposing claims, is, " On which side does the present evidence stand ? "
Spiritism is a working hypothesis, and until critics can produce some experi
mental data on an adequate scale favouring their transcendental theories
and involving non-spiritistic phenomena, our only problem is to see whether
spiritism can be made to explain the facts consistently, and it is strong or
weak in proportion to that ability.
(4) I deny that we have to prove the falsity of Mysticism and Occultism
as a pre-condition of maintaining spiritism, except as the evidence for
spiritism tends to disprove the former. Logic shows that we cannot prove a
negative. We may disprove spiritism by proving Mysticism, etc., or we
may disprove these latter by proving spiritism. But we are neither able
nor obliged to prove the falsity of Mysticism and Occultism as a condition
of holding to spiritism. It is the business of occultists to present scientific
evidence of their claims, real or hypothetical, as a condition of their con
sideration in a scientific court. I repeat that they are quite as possible a
priori as my own theory, but, as even Mrs. Barker admits, " we are under
no obligation to accept without proof what these people tell us of ' tele
pathic ' powers," etc. If it came to a priori considerations, I think that I
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1902.
could offer several more than Mrs. Barker suggests. But I am not troubled
about that sort of " science."
(5) The true point de repere of science, both in the treatment of explana
tion and in the estimation of evidence, is the theory of Materialism, and
not any supernormal possibilities whatsoever. Materialism claims to ex
plain all phenomena, and in so doing endeavours to reduce the phenomena of
consciousness to functions of the brain, relying upon mechanical analogies
to accomplish its object. Our business is to show that there are some
phenomena which its assumptions will not explain, and which spiritism
does explain. We do not even require to consider "telepathy," unless it
has empirical support, and tends to make spiritism superfluous as a theory.
For aught that I know, " telepathy " is perfectly consistent with Mate
rialism, and hence its right to contend with spiritism, if it has any empirical
evidence in favour of its being a fact in some sense of the term. But until
any other supernormal possibilities can present equal credentials empiri
cally, they must be thrown out of court in a scientific procedure, and I do
not pretend to estimate the problem from any other point of view.
(6) This " telepathy " which critics fling at our spiritistic heads so
vigorously, is at best a vague conception that can be used against us only
because it is vague. The only meaning of the term which science can
admit at present is that of a coincidence which requires a causal explanation,
but it is not an explanation of anything. So far as that is concerned, it
is an unknown principle. It implies a supernormal of some sort, and gets
its cogency against spiritism partly from the fact that its limits are not
clearly defined when assuming it as explanatory, partly also from the fact
that it diverts the evidential problem from the question of the super
normal to that of transcendental personal identity, and partly from the
fact that most people confuse the supernormal as a phenomenon with its
explanation. But the only " telepathy," whether as a phenomenon or as an
explanation, which makes any pretension to adequate scientific support
(and even that is denied by most scientific men), is that which limits it to
the present active states of consciousness (pp. 135-138). This ad libitum "tele
pathy " from the memory, whether of sitters or of people on the other side
of the globe,—to say nothing of its selective production of personal identity
and limitation to trivialities when its powers, as assumed, should enable it
to obtain the important as well,—has no adequate scientific credentials as
yet, and hence it is an act of supererogatory condescension and mercy
on our part that we should even consider it for the sake of argument. As
I said in the last sentence of my report (p. 296), when it is experimentally
proved in non-spiritistic phenomena representing the personal identity of
the living in the organising form of the Piper phenomena, it will be time
to reconsider the position that I have taken. I assume its largest exten
sion merely to indicate what must be done by it in order to maintain its
opposition to spiritism ; but this assumption for the sake of pushing an
adversary must not be taken to imply that I admit its scientific right to be
considered as either true or capable of explaining the facts. It is a con
APRIL, 1902.] Correspondence. 215
venient conception in this large form to bring out the nice psychological
shades of incidents which would be true on a spiritistic theory, and which
a telepathic theory must imitate in order to compete with the spiritistic, but
if " telepathy " is simply a function to duplicate the spiritistic, and produce
nothing else supernormal, it loses its antagonism to the spiritistic. Hence
its larger meaning must be scientifically proved before I need fear it.
(7) Science insists on consistency with the established body of knowledge
or belief as the safest criterion for the validity of any new propositions,
at least in some of their accidents, until the evidence is sufficient to justify
an entire departure from existing assumptions. I made a special claim
for spiritism in my Report (p. 294) against " telepathy," and as satisfying
this demand in its fundamental characteristic. Spiritism, as I there stated,
simply extends a known principle,—the personality of a definitely known
being beyond certain physical conditions,—to explain the occurrence of
certain mental phenomena, just as Newton simply extended the known or
supposed terrestrial gravitation beyond the earth to explain the celestial
system. This mere extension of personal identity enables us to test the
case by the principles and assumption of normal psychology, while the use
of " telepathy " so implicates the problem with the supernormal as to
disturb that community with existing conceptions which must always be
the safest criterion of truth. " Telepathy," as just indicated, is admittedly
nothing more than the statement of a phenomenon to be explained and is
not its explanation. It is an evidential standard, and is not an explanatory
principle. Hence spiritism has the first claim to our allegiance as a
scientific theory or hypothesis, even if "telepathy" should turn out pre
ferable after experimentation.
(8) Mrs. Barker's remarks on the " possibility of suspending judgment
concerning the nature of the intermediaries while considering the nature of
the personalities represented by them " is misleading. It at least seems to
imply that I had not admitted this " possibility," when as a matter of fact I
distinctly stated that this might be a view taken in the case (pp. 264 and
292). But I undertook to show why this was not the proper scientific
position, in as much as spiritism depended primarily on proving personal
identity of the deceased (pp. 4-5, and 263), and as the trance personalities do
not supply us with the data for this end, we are obliged from the standpoint
of science to assume them to be the secondary personalities of Mrs. Piper.
If I were not obliged to reckon with secondary personality at all, the
problem would be very different. I might then put all personalities on the
same level. But with personal identity as the problem, and to determine
the method of procedure, we can scientifically transcend the normal only by
using the data that might not be explicable by secondary personality.
(9) Again, Mrs. Barker's use of the conception of secondary personality
entirely misconceives its scientific import. The Occultists, whose supposi
tion she here states hypothetically, assume in what they ascribe to it that it
is a supernormal function. This is not its conception in psychopathology.
In both physiology and psychology, whether normal or abnormal, it is purely
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1902.
a normal as distinct from a supernormal function. Whatever its powers of
acquisition, they are referable to supraliminal agencies for the data, and
are not supposed to possess any supernormal characteristics. That is to say,
the supernormal is not a necessary adjunct or characteristic of secondary
personality, and so cannot be assumed to represent any such functions as the
Occultist ascribes to it without empirical proof. Now as long as secondary
personality is subordinated to the agencies of the primary personality, or
supraliminal, in the acquisition of its data and its powers, it cannot possibly
be supernormal, unless we should equally discover the supernormal in the
supraliminal. Consequently the question can never be whether the dis
tinction between the normal and supernormal coincides with that between
the supraliminal and subliminal, or primary and secondary personality,
but whether the supernormal is a necessary characteristic of either of them.
If it is a necessary feature of them, we simply change our conception of the
terms. If it is not, we simply refuse to admit that the secondary or primary
personality of any one can exercise supernormal functions, and insist that
the supernormal is a distinct function. Hence in default of securing any
presumptions in favour of the supernormal by reference to secondary per
sonality, the Occultist must present empirical proof of his thesis that
subliminals are running about the world gathering up information,
" unbeknownst " to the people from whom it is obtained, and palming it
off as spirits. I shall listen patiently to any evidence on this point.
(10) Mrs. Barker also misunderstands and confuses the subject of fraud
in this problem. She confuses together the questions of conscious and uncon
scious or subliminal fraud, and apparently does not apprehend why the sub
ject of "fraud," as my Report discusses it, is considered at all. The
" honesty of the medium " is never more than an answer to an objection. It
can never constitute the genuineness of the fact, but only serve as evidence
for it. Our business is to perform experiments in which fraud (conscious
fraud) by Mrs. Piper alone is impossible, no matter what she might have
done in the past or in any other particular. Honesty is only a means of
convincing the public ; it is not a means of making the facts genuine. The
scientific conditions must determine this quality, and honesty is only one of
the considerations that enter into the question, and this not the fundamental
one.
As to unconscious (subliminal) fraud, we have two wholly separate
questions. (1) Whether it is merely the secondary personality of Mrs.
Piper with characteristics that are the same or different from her normal
(supraliminal) consciousness. (2) Whether this supposed fraudulent sub
liminal is also coupled with supernormal powers. In regard to the first of
these, its action is excluded from the case by the same scientific conditions
which determined the evidence of the supernormal. In regard to the
second, the only possible method of determining whether it can account for
the facts is to examine the extent of its powers or limitations, and having
done this with the consideration of the necessary implications involved,
simply ask ourselves whether we can admit all the supernormal adjuncts
APRIL, 1902.] Correspondence. 217
involved without specific empirical evidence. I indicated this in various
passages of my Report, among them see pp. 142-146, 153, and 292, and the
implications of " Mistakes and Confusion," pp. 214-238. I might remark
too that if the subliminal, or secondary personality, be half so shrewd as
Mrs. Barker supposes in her hypothesis, there would be no possibility of
detecting it after assuming a large-range "telepathy," or the mobile
capacities of the subliminal in space and selective ingenuity. The Occultist
must prove empirically that this is a fact. I simply repeat that I do not
have to prove a negative. The Occultist must prove the affirmative.
Again, in connecting what I said about fraud on p. 158 with what I said
on p. 178, Mrs. Barker absolutely confuses the whole question of fraud.
In the first of these references I was discussing the alternatives between
supraliminal fraud and spiritism as theories. Whether there was subliminal
fraud with supernormal powers was not the issue. I was here dealing with
the average scientific Philistine. In the second reference I was discussing
the question whether, in spite of my assumption, the trance personalities
might not be discarnate spirits according to their claims, and admitting
the difficulty of "transcending the telepathic hypothesis" if we assumed
that these trance personalities were the subliminal of Mrs. Piper. I was
not dealing with either subliminal fraud or fraudulent discaruate spirits,
•as Mrs. Barker's animadversions seem to imply that I should have done.
I simply stated a problem, and suggested that there was something to
favour, though not to prove, that Imperator and Rector were what they
claimed to be, namely, discarnate spirits. If I do not transcend the tele
pathic hypothesis, it is because the Occultist has proved his theory. But
where is the evidence ? Where has the Occultist given scientific evidence
of his assumed subliminal powers and organising intelligence in this acute
imitation of spirits? If I have transcended the telepathic hypothesis, we
have spiritism as the conclusion, though I may not have eliminated the pos
sibility of subliminal fraud on Mrs. Piper's part, nor fraud on the part of
•discarnate spirits. But the existence of evil spirits was not my problem.
It was a question of any spirits at all, and you may think what you
please about Imperator and Rector after supposing that they are discarnate
.spirits.
(11) Mrs. Barker confuses the questions of "mediums," "intermediaries,"
and "controls." I do not state anywhere in my Report, in the technical
sense of that term, that "the communicators through Mrs. Piper's hand act
simply as mediums." I speak of them now and then as "intermediaries,"
but not as " mediums." Mrs. Piper is the only " medium " that I recognise
in the case, in any technical sense of the term. The " controls" may act as
" intermediaries," and other " communicators " may do the same when
" communicating " data bearing upon the identity of others than themselves.
But none of them are treated, or supposed to be, "mediums." It is apparent,
however, that Mrs. Barker refers to the " controls," or trance personalities,
and she says : " It would seem that to determine the nature of the inter
mediaries was a pre-condition of the discussion of their honesty." This may
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1902.
be true if their honesty has anything to do with the problem, which it has
not, if we suppose that the " intermediaries " are discarnate spirits. If
they are " incarnate minds acting ' telepathically ' through Mrs. Piper's
organism," I would merely apply M rs. Barker's maxim that " we are under
no obligation to accept without proof" what these claims suppose. I would
also suggest that here, as well as in the discussion of spiritism, it might be
well to first determine the nature of such supposed intermediaries before
discussing their honesty ! Besides, the question of the honesty of the
" intermediaries " is not connected in any way with that of Mrs. Piper,
which is a supraliminal matter, so far as my report is concerned. If I were
called upon to estimate the problem' after evidence had been put in for the
assumed influence of "incarnate minds," it would be, perhaps, a different
matter ; but it will be time to consider it when Mrs. Barker or the Occultist
puts in that evidence. The " assertion by many disinterested persons that
this form of telepathy does exist," does not make it "necessary" that we
" suspend judgment upon the identity of the communicators other than the
controls," as conjectured by Mrs. Barker. The "proof" of it might, but
mere " assertion," even according to Mrs. Barker as above quoted, does not
merit any scientific attention. Moreover, if we are " to determine the
nature of the intermediaries as a pre-condition of their honesty," why should
we attach so much importance to investigating the " reliability " and " truth
fulness " of Imperator ?
(12) Again, Mrs. Barker entirely misconceives the issue of my Report
when she supposes that I must consider the hypothesis that Imperator and
his group are discarnate spirits and then question the "proof" of the
personal identity of the other " communicators." That is to take spiritism
for granted when it is the issue. Whether spiritism is true is one issue, the
one I was trying to defend. Whether, if the Imperator group were discar
nate spirits, I had sufficiently "proved" the independent existence of the
other "communicators" is another issue, and one that I was not considering
and also was forbidden to consider according to the standard assumed
(pp. 4, 5, and 263). I have nothing to do with the question finally whether
the Imperator group are discarnate spirits, until they condescend to prove
their personal identity. I may suggest, as I did in discussing the dramatic
play (pp. 176-184), that there is something to support their spiritistic claims',
but unless they do something to satisfy the criterion of personal identity,
my obligation is to treat them as secondary personalities of Mrs. Piper
(pp. 265, 266), even if I incline to believe that they are spirits. Mrs.
Barker's problem here is not spiritism, but, assuming spiritism as proved,
whether I had " proved " the spiritistic nature of a certain personality other
than the Imperator group. The question of science is whether we are forced
to treat the Imperator group as rnolie, than Mrs. Piper's subliminal, and if
so, then spiritism being once supposed, there ought not to be much difficulty
in measuring the evidence for the existence of other spirits, as is virtually
admitted in one statement of Mrs. Barker. The last sentence on page 264
of my Report shows how this may be done, and the general method is more
APRIL, 1902.] Correspondence. 219
fully discussed between pages 262 and 267. I cannot enter into this question
at length here, but I can repeat and emphasise the importance of our
obligation to assume that the Imperator group are the secondary person
alities of Mrs. Piper, until they have either given us satisfactory credentials
of their identity, or sufficient evidence of their independent existence as
spirits. After that we shall simply ascertain whether their limitations are
consistent with the supposition that they, as spirits, are palming off
transcendentally acquired knowledge as the personalities of other spirits.
If the Imperator group are spirits, the confusion of other "communicators"
would be incompatible with their own clearness when they communicate for
themselves, and still more pertinently, their limitation to trivial matters
would be absurd. We could understand how Mrs. Pipers subliminal might
be clear in expressing itself, but confused when acting telepathically, but
it would be absurd for the Imperator group to be clear when communicating
for themselves and confused when " communicating " for other alleged spirits
and claiming that they are present.
(13) A propos of the theory that the Imperator group are discarnate spirits
collecting facts to palm them off as evidence of other spirits, and that the
John M'Clellan incident appears as if it supported this view, Mrs. Barker's
discussion of this incident shows some confusion, and fails to recognise the
possible intermediation of my uncle as an interpretation of the case. (1) The
record does not assert or imply that the family names connected with this
John M'Clellan and confused with incidents about my uncle's father by the
same name were given by this uncle James M'Clellan. That is implied by
Mrs. Barker's interpretation, while I definitely indicated (p. 112) that they
were given by my father and cousin. It was the reference to war and the
lost finger that my uncle apparently gave. (2) The record which it is
supposed that Rector or some confrere had examined does not contain any
reference to either the family names or the lost finger. All that is there
recorded, as my Report indicates, is the fact that this John M'Clellan was
commissioned as an ensign. All the other facts, names of connections and
the incident of the lost finger, would have had to be obtained by rummaging
about the memories of different persons, since it required correspondence
over two states and travel over different counties of the same state to
ascertain the truth of the messages. Any discarnate spirit that could per
form a synthetic miracle of this kind ought not to misplace the incidents in
the experience of my uncle's father. (3) It should also be remembered that
it is quite possible that my uncle James M'Clellan knew the facts about this
old John M'Clellan, since he lived within seven or eight miles of him and
married a sister of my mother, who was born and lived near this John
M'Clellan. For aught also that I know, he might have been a remote
relative of my uncle, though I have so far been unable to ascertain this
from descendants of either family. Those among my own relatives say he
was not, but they also did not know of his existence. (4) Accepting the
spiritistic theory, as Mrs. Barker's assumption does, unless we suppose that
the ordinary "communicator" is clear, which the psychological character
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1902.
of the phenomena does not sustain, there is no more reason, as Mrs. Barker
supposes, that Rector would more naturally commit the mistake here pi-e-
sumed to have been made as the result of inquiry, than to suppose that my
uncle committed it in the confusion of communicating. My uncle apparently
acts as a "communicator" on his own account and an intermediary for this
old John M'Olellan in order to clear up some admitted confusion. Notice
(p. 471) that he first mentioned a John and Frank, which probably referred
to the John M'Clellan who was not his father and Frank Williams men
tioned earlier (p. 438). He then apparently indicates that it was his brother
John who went to the war, but as he corrected this immediately by reflection
and intimation of confusion, we can well suppose that the statement, " he
was the one who went to war," was an explanatory interlocution to Eector
who was trying so hard to get the matter " straight " and hence as referring
to the first John mentioned. In his confusion about the two John
M'Clellans, one his father and the other a supposed stranger, we may well
suppose that my uncle might have said things which belonged to the
stranger John M'Clellan and which Rector mistook as referring to my
uncle's father. Compare Rector's mistake : " I got it all but the Hyslop "
(p. 465). The confusion would be natural in the attempt to communicate
on his own account and at the same time to act as an intermediary for
another party, especially if the conditions in any way disturbed his normal
consciousness, as the evidence indicates for all "communicators" except the
trance personalities. That other intermediaries than the Imperator group
" communicate " for others than themselves is apparent in the cases of my
brother Charles and my sister Annie (pp. 100-108), and also more or less
my father and my cousin. The previous Piper Reports, as well as my own,
are full of instances of a like phenomenon, so that the Imperator group are
not the only personalities who must be supposed to be spirits hunting up
information in this occult fashion to palm it off as spirits. Besides there
have been controls which have supplied evidence of their identity before
acting as intermediaries. George Pelham is a case in point. But the most
important circumstance at present is that confusion and error are just as
likely, if we suppose the " communicator " to be in a more or less secondary
state (and the evidence will hardly permit any other supposition, except in
the cases of Imperator and Rector with their group), as they are if we
suppose that Rector or a confrere makes mistake in the collation of his data.
The latter assumption also is handicapped by the circumstance that the
Imperator group are clear in their communications, so that no matter how
fragmentary the information they obtain by their rummaging about human
records and memories, they should avoid confusion in telling it.
(14) Mrs. Barker's assumption that we must adopt a theory which
supposes the unity of the physical phenomena in the case of Stainton
Moses and of the psychological phenomena in the Piper case I do not
admit. Mrs. Barker entirely misunderstands the nature of our problem
in both these cases. If the Piper case exhibited such physical phenomena
on the one hand, and if the Moses case exhibited the same kind of a record
APRIL, 1902.] Correspondence. 221
on the other, the question might be a different one. But the first question
with us as investigators is the conditions under which the phenomena occur,
our knowledge of them, and the completeness and continuity of the record,
made by others than the medium. Hence I refuse to admit the importance
of the Stainton Moses case, except as a stimulus to investigation. I do not
deny that there were supernormal phenomena there. I could go so far as.
to admit that they most certainly were there. But the circumstances were
such in making the record that we do not have any sure criterion for the
distinction between supernormal agencies and the subliminal phenomena of
Stainton Moses himself. This is particularly true of his physical phenomena.
It is much more difficult to prove the supernormal nature of physical than
of psychological phenomena. Hence, considering the imperfection of the
record, the Stainton Moses case is evidently valueless for speculative purposes
on the points raised by Mrs. Barker. The supraliminal probity of Stainton
Moses does not affect the question. That is only a consideration which
removes the ordinary explanation. The real problem is to determine first
how much was done by him unconsciously, and for which his normal con
sciousness could not be held responsible. For aught that we know, the
physical phenomena of that case were produced by Stainton Moses himself
in an abnormal state of mind, at least some of the most striking of them,
and then discovered by his normal consciousness, which had no memory of
the subliminal action. The Flournoy case lends much support to this
possibility. Mile. Helene Smith undoubtedly performed certain physical
tricks in her trance condition of which she had no recollection afterward,
and which she would have supposed to be supernormal if it had not been
that Prof. Flournoy had indisputable evidence to the contrary. Compare
my article in the North American Review, vol. clxxi. We need, therefore, a
far better record than that of Stainton Moses himself, better also than that
of Dr. Speer, to assure evidential value for the narrative of physical
phenomena in that case. I am not denying the actual genuineness of some
or even all of these physical phenomena. For aught that I know, they may
be what they are represented to be. But in the absence of an adequate
record and of a satisfactory criterion for the distinction between what was
subliminal and what supernormal, I must remain in the position of an
agnostic and demand more proof. I cannot assume to explain a phenomenon
until I am assured that it is a fact. When, therefore, we are able to
determine what is Imperator's "record," and what the subliminal of
Staintou Moses, we may enter into speculation regarding explanations.
Moreover, it would not help matters in the least to establish the genuine
ness of these physical phenomena, since mere physical phenomena have no
tendency to prove spiritism. The standard for that theory is a very
different one. Physical phenomena might be explained by spirits, but
they are not evidence of them. Consequently the " truthfulness " of Im-
perator cannot be a subject of serious consideration evidentially, because, as
I have remarked above, he is not obliged " to stand by his own record,"
unless we can show what is his " record," and what the subliminal of Stainton
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1902.
Moses. Moreover, Mrs. Barker must recognise from her own assumptions
that almost any amount of "truthfulness" is compatible with devilishness,
so that we might not gain anything by establishing that quality of Imperator
in the Moses phenomena, unless we could fix it in each particular case, and
we should not be able to " prove " his statements through Mrs. Piper very
easily, if at all. That would have to be an article of faith outside of our
scientific procedure. No, it is the personal identity problem that is the
main question, and no matter whether the Imperator group are discarnate
spirits or only the secondary personality of Mrs. Piper, after we have
admitted the supernormal, their limitations must be the test of the inde
pendent personalities of other " communicators."
(15) Mrs. Barker's analogy between the Imperator group's supposed
acquisition of knowledge by visiting "other human organisms," etc., and
their use of Mrs. Piper's organism will not hold good. There is absolutely
no evidence within my knowledge that they use Mrs. Piper's organism for
the collection of information, and if they did we ought to obtain what they
so collect, after the analogy of what Mrs. Barker supposes might have been
obtained from the History of Greene County, Ohio, and the memories of
persons living there and elsewhere. They use Mrs. Piper's organism for
" communication," not acquisition, no matter how we may suppose that they
get information from " other organisms." But supposing them as getting it,
they ought not to be confused in " communicating" it, according to the usual
indications of the record.
(16) Mrs. Barker must not be shocked at the divine honours paid to
Imperator in "the bowing of the hand and capitalising of the personal
pronoun," as that is merely a part of the record of what goes on, the like of
which should have been noted in the case of Stainton Moses, if it occurred.
We do not attach any importance to this phenomenon, but may readily
enough ascribe it all to Mrs. Piper's secondary personality, and not even
then admit any such conception of the subliminal as the Occultists would
have us believe. I know we are a very democratic country (except when
the elections happen to go Republican, as Mr. Dooley might say), but, if I
mistake not, Americans are quite interested in royal functionaries, whether
the matter concerns the entertainment of a Prince (excuse the capitalisation)
or the coronation of a King. There seems to be a little aristocracy left even
in this part of the globe among democratic mortals, and I am not sure that
it is any worse than the same disposition on " the other side."
To summarise the case in a conclusion, I must again remind Mrs. Barker
that my problem, in connection with what I understand scientific method to
be, is an inductive one, and not the demonstration deductively, or in any
other way, of a future life. / was testing hypotheses which profess to have
some empirical evidence in their favour. I simply prefer the more rational of
these until those who hold a different theory present adequate scientific data
in their support showing a preference in their favour.
JAMES H. HYSLOP.
APRIL, 1902.] Correspondence. 223
TELEPATHIC EXPERIMENTATION.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
I AM glad to see that the Society is making fresh efforts at telepathic
experimentation, and as a good many people seem to be "unable to see
what is the good of repeating what has already been done," J propose to
make some remarks on the scientific necessity of constant experimentation
and progress, in the hope that the Society generally may thereby be stimu
lated to co-operate seriously and systematically with these efforts.
Further experimentation is needed, not only to make further progress, but
also to secure the ground already won.
To take the second point first. It is, I believe, an (not wholly unreasonable)
article of faith with many of the experts of the Society that telepathy is a
scientifically-established fact. Aye, but how long will it remain so ? If, as the
years roll on, we cannot point to fresh experiments, repeating, confirming,
and extending those of bygone years, will not their impression grow ever
fainter, and their character and conclusiveness be ever more obscured by the
gloom of deepening suspicion ?
It would seem to be simply a matter of time for an ingenious sceptic
to assume the role of advocatus diaboli, to make insinuations against our
experiments such as have often been made in the bosom of the Society
itself against those of former days. Now, what I wish to point out
is, that this is a contingency which all historical evidence has to face,
irrespective of its character. The mere lapse of time progressively weakens
it, and exposes it to scientific suspicion, because its initial cogency always,
more or less, depends on the scientific trustworthiness of the witnesses.
Hence doubts, which at the time were dissipated by personal knowledge
of the witnesses, revive as this knowledge grows rarer. And even where
specific grounds of distrust are lacking, the general improbability of a per
sistently unconfirmed allegation must crush the doctrine, or reduce it to a
pious hope. Indeed, I rather wonder whether some of those who were once
convinced by the Society's evidence may not have already, by this time,
grown the gravest scruples about its cogency. For, with a sceptical trend
of mind, nothing would be easier, and even I, who have no special psycho
logical tendency to scepticism, often have qualms.
But in my case these arise also from other sources. All scientific experi
ence shows that there are no isolated facts. If, therefore, Telepathy is a fact,
there must somewhere be a great continent of facts, whence it springs and of
which it announces the existence. But what has the Society so far done
to discover this new region ? And until it has been discovered, the feeling of
the antecedent incredibility of telepathy is only temporarily repressed : it
is not eradicated from the mind, and must ever send up fresh shoots. In
the present state of things, in short, Telepathy can only very hypotheti
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [APRIL, 1902.
cally be treated as fact, because it stands alone. To secure it, therefore, we
must progress beyond it.
Again, all scientific analogy requires us to progress. It is not enough
in Science to establish a 'fact,' and then to leave it unsupported for time,
and criticism to rot it away. A newly-discovered fact in science is promptly
followed up and out into its consequences and applications, and these in
return put its existence beyond doubt. And so proof is continuous and
cumulative without end. But what have we done ? Who can say that
telepathic communication between minds ia easier or more trustworthy than
it was twenty years ago ? And what should we think of the scientific status
of the discoverers of wireless telegraphy, if they had contented themselves
with "establishing the fact," and then had broken up their instruments,
stopped their researches, and declined to put us practically into communica
tion by these novel means ? A real scientific fact is always rendered useful,
and there is much to be said for the view that what cannot be utilized cannot
ultimately be recognized as fact at all. It is clearly our duty, therefore,
to improve telepathic communication until it can be practically used—at all
events as between exceptional people, e.g. lovers, whom some of the earlier
experiments seemed to indicate as especially sensitive and appreciative of the
privilege.
As for the Society, I hope these considerations suffice to show that it
cannot rest on its oars or its laurels, or any such uncomfortable substitutes
for well-stuffed chairs, at least until the academic repose of, let us say, the
future " Sidgwick and Myers Professor of Comparative Telepathy in the
University of Cambridge" gratefully attests that the subject has in very
deed become a scientific fact in good standing.
F. C. S. SCHILLER.
CORKECTION.
[Professor Hyslop writes to us as follows to correct an error in his
published Report on Mrs. Piper.—EDITOR.]
An unfortunate mistake has occurred in the statistical summary of
my Report in vol. xvi. of the Proceedings (p. 121), which I wish to
correct. In comparing the various true, false, and indeterminate
factors, I seem to have added the whole number of the mixed factors,
instead of the true factors in that general class, to the true factors in
the second column of the table, and hence made the total number of
true factors too large. It will be seen also that I made the number of
false factors too small, owing to a complicated mistake which I shall
not review here. The numbers should be as follows :—True factors,
593; False factors, 83; Indeterminate factors, 167. J. H. HYSLOP.
No. CLXXXIX.—VOL. X. MAY, 1902.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
Report on an alleged Proof of the Passage
of Matter through Matter. By N. W.
Thomas, 220
The Internationallnstitute ofPsychology, 2211
Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena :
Personal Experiences of C. (continued
from the March Journal), - - - 230
Edmund Gurney Library Fund, -
An Epidemic of Hallucinations,
Correspondence :
Prof. Hyslop's Report on Mrs. Piper,
On " An Alleged Case of Elongation," -
PAGE
282
284
236
286
238
REPORT ON AN ALLEGED PROOF OF THE PASSAGE OF
MATTER THROUGH MATTER.
BY N. W. THOMAS.
IN the course of 1901 considerable interest was aroused in Berlin
Spiritualistic circles by the performance of a new medium for " Stoff-
ilurchdringung." A detailed account of the so-called box-experiment
appeared in the Spiritistische Rundschau, Jahrg. 8, Nos. 9 and 10 (June
and July, 1901). From this it appears that a wooden box, sealed
and nailed up, was left with the medium, who, a few days later,
announced that it was no longer empty. The seals having been
examined at a meeting to which representatives of the press were
admitted, and having been found intact, the box was opened and
shown to contain a medallion and various other objects. In the
absence of more precise information, it is impossible to say how far the
precautions taken were sufficient to prevent : (1) the opening and
subsequent closing of the box, and (2) the substitution of a box of
exactly similar make and material.
Later in the year another series of experiments was tried, to which
the attention of the S.P.R. was directed by Professor C. W. Sellin. The
visible result of them was several wine-glass and vase-shaped objects
encircled by ivory rings, smaller in diameter than the extremities of the
objects themselves.
In an article in the Spiritistische Rundschau, Jahrg. 9, No. 2, these
objects were claimed as indisputable proofs of the passage of matter
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1902.
through matter : though it was frankly admitted that " conditions "
were non-existent, as the component parts were simply deposited in the
bedroom of the medium and the finished object was ready for inspection
in the morning. The alleged proof, therefore, depended wholly and
solely for its cogency on the supposed impossibility of producing the
object by natural means. The mere inspection of the photographs sent
by Professor Sellin showed, however, that,—apart from the possibility
of manipulating the objects with the blow-pipe,—the rings were so large
that they could easily be passed over the feet of the objects if by some
means the ivory could be rendered slightly flexible. The flexibility can
as a matter of fact be produced with ease.
Two other photographs sent a month later were more striking. The
construction produced on November llth, 1901, consisted of three
glasses passed through an ivory ring ; and about a week later three
glasses were shown passed through two rings, one of which was ivory
and the other wood.
It was, however, felt that the data to be gathered from an inspec
tion of photographs were not sufficient for forming a judgment, and
Professor Sellin having stated that those in charge of the objects
refused to lend them, I was asked to go over to Berlin to inspect them.
By the kindness of Professor Sellin, to whom I am much indebted for
his unwearying efforts on my behalf, I was able on the night of my
arrival in Berlin (December 30th, 1901) to have an interview with the
medium, her fiance, and one of the officers of the Loge Psyche, under
whose auspices the experiments are performed.
The medium, who goes by the name of Emmeline Stillfried, is a girl
of about 20 years of age. She is the daughter of a Silesian farmer, and
has had hallucinations of various sorts from her tenth year onwards.
She took service in 1900 in the family of a high government official in
Berlin, and was there brought into contact with the Spiritualists ; she
also visited a spiritualistic circle, where she met her future fiance, C.
R , an overseer in a factory where skilled workmen are employed.
From a diary kept by him it appears that the supernormal powers of
the medium developed,—to some extent under his guidance perhaps,—
with the ripening of their acquaintanceship. From the end of
February, 1901, onwards manifestations, at some of which members
of the family in which she lived are alleged to have been present, were
only occasionally absent from the seances. Until the box-experiment
mentioned above there was, however, no attempt at supervision.
From the statements of the medium and her fiance', it appears that the
conditions of the later experiments, with which we are more especially
MAY, 1902.] The Passage of Matter Through Matter. 227
concerned, were as follows : the glasses and rings were provided as a
rule by the fiance' ; (it is, however, alleged that these were sometimes
replaced by " apports ") ; they were placed in the medium's bedroom
and in the morning the completed objects were found. There was no
attempt at supervision. Conditions being wholly absent, the good faith
of the experimenters, as such, need not be called in question, but merely
their worldly wisdom and capacity for gauging the limits of mechanical
ingenuity.
Those responsible for the experiments regard them as a clear proof of
the passage of matter through matter. Their claim is invalid, unless the
objects are of such a character that human ingenuity could not
possibly produce them. It is hardly necessary to point out that the
extreme laxity, or rather complete absence, of control in the case before
us would make it possible for some person secretly, while the medium
was entranced, either (1) to put together by normal means the objects
provided ; or (2) to substitute for the objects provided, a ready-made
article. This state of things made it unnecessary for me to prolong my
stay in Berlin. It was improbable that I should be able to expose a
fraud committed under these circumstances, and the only question
really at issue was whether the objects could be produced by normal
means or not. That being so, I asked and obtained permission to bring
to England the last object produced ; and this was subsequently
•exhibited at the General Meeting of the Society on January 31st,
1902.
This object consists of two thin tablets of flexible wood, probably
chestnut or holly, 12-5 cm. long, 2'5 mm. thick; their greatest breadth
is about 7 cm. ; an approximately circular hole is cut in the centre of
each, 4-7 cm. and 4'4 cm. in diameter; the tablets taper away towards
each end, and the extremity of one is passed through the hole in the
centre of the other. Through the holes in these tablets are passed four
liqueur or wine-glasses (A,B,C,D) and a wooden egg-cup (E), disposed
as follows : A and B are passed through one single hole, D and E through
both holes, and C through the other single hole. The arrangement is
such that the withdrawal of either D or E would enable us to release
the remainder ; there is, however, no way of doing this directly while
D and E remain intact ; at the same time it might be possible to find a
method of liberating D and E indirectly by withdrawing one of the
others first. There are, therefore, two possibilities to be considered ; in
the first place one of the key pieces (D and E) may have been inserted
in two pieces and joined up after the other glasses were in position ; or
secondly one of the other pieces may have been inserted in such a way
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1902.
as to lock the others ; the component parts being freely movable, it
would not be easy, if this original arrangement was once altered, to bring
them back to the key position, and the chance of detection would be
small.
I have mentioned above that one of the key pieces is glass ; it is clear
that if the stem were divided it would be an exceedingly difficult task
to join it up with the blow-pipe without leaving any trace of manipula
tion ; but small though the probability is that this, is the method by
which the object was produced, we should not perhaps be justified in
disregarding it. In the case of the egg-cup, however, the operation
would be much simpler. There is a considerable thickness of wood at
the base of the bowl ; it would be quite possible to divide the stem
below the bowl and, after sacrificing a little of the length, to join it
up again in a manner that would defy detection, at any rate by mere
inspection. It would only be necessary to bore the two portions, insert
a peg of the same kind of wood, make the grain correspond and fix
with some kind of glue.
An examination of the egg-cup discloses a state of things in no way
inconsistent with this hypothesis ; at the base of the bowl is a deep cut,
which does not under the microscope present the appearance of having
been produced on the lathe, but might readily have been made in the
way suggested. An examination with "X rays " disclosed no suspicious
appearances, but it is clear that this is quite indecisive ; for with the
most ordinary precautions all danger of detection by this means could
be avoided ; if the glue were put on in a very thin layer or were not very
much more opaque than the wood, we could hardly expect to discover
any traces of it. It would, of course, be possible to test the truth of this
hypothesis by more searching methods, such as soaking the construction
in water. Having pledged myself, however, to return it in safety, I did
not consider myself at liberty to run any risks.
It was the less necessary to do so as, after a considerable amount of
manipulation, I discovered that it was possible to withdraw glass C
without doing more violence than is involved in bending one of the
tablets slightly. For the reason just mentioned, I did not feel at liberty
to carry the experiment further ; I cannot, therefore, say definitely that
the withdrawal of this glass would enable the remainder to be released,
but it seems to me highly probable that it would. I shall be pleased
to apply this and the test already mentioned if those in charge of the
object will return it to me with the necessary permission.
It appears, therefore, that there are at least two ways in which the
object in question could have been produced without the aid of super
MAY, 1902.] The Passage of Matter Through Matter. 229
normal forces. I have already pointed out that the claim for super
normal influences was based,—not on the care with which all normal
causes had been excluded, for no precautions of any kind were taken ;
nor did it rest on the good faith of those responsible for the experi
ment, for they did not attempt to direct it ; nor on the good faith of
the medium, for she declares that she knows nothing of the way in
which the object is produced. The claim for supernormal influences
was based wholly and solely on the impossibility of producing the
objects by normal means. Now it is obvious that before we can
admit the validity of such an argument, it must be quite clear that this
is really impossible ; the margin of safety must be very large. In the
case before us, however, the margin of safety is not only not large, but
—as I have shown—absolutely non-existent. There is not even a
presumption that supernormal forces have been at work. Much less
does it prove the passage of matter through matter. It is clear that
this is as much the case from the spiritualistic point of view as from any
other. Even if supernormal forces have been at work, we have still no
ground for regarding the passage of matter through matter as proved
by these or similar experiments, since all that would be necessary to
produce the effect would be a slight compression of some parts or a
slight expansion of others. With this idea in mind I urged the
experimenters to undertake something which would, so far as we can see,
be a really decisive proof of the passage of matter through matter, such
as the interlacing of two parchment rings. I was informed that the
control said it was too difficult. This may be so, but it is not
apparent why the molecules of parchment should be more difficult to
deal with than those of wood or glass. On the whole it seems safest
to conclude that it is impossible, not because the molecular constitution
is different, but because the chemical and mechanical methods which
are effective in the case of glass, ivory, or wood are not available in the
case of parchment.
THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PSYCHOLOGY.
THE most recent number (January-February, 1902) of the Bulletin de
I'lnstitut Psycliologique International contains the announcement of the
formation of two special sections of the Institute, for the study respec
tively of psychical phenomena and of animal psychology. The former
section, whose creation (says the report) has been from the beginning
one of the principal objects of the Institute, consists of the following
members : Messrs. d'Arsonval, Bergson, Branly, Brissaud, Duclaux,
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1902.
Marey, and Weiss, M. Duclaux having been elected President. The
aim of the section is to explore that region on the borders of psycho
logy, biology, and physics where forces as yet undefined appear occa
sionally to be manifest. It intends to enter on the research without
bias or preconception, and with the sole aim of submitting to experi
ence the question, "What is objectively real, and what is capable of
subjective interpretation, in the facts described under the names of
mental suggestion, telepathy, mediumship, levitation, etc.? " It main
tains that this question can only be answered through the application
of such methods of precise observation and rigorous experimentation
as are practised in laboratories, and a hope is expressed that the
Institute may before long be able to provide rooms for experimental
investigations. Meanwhile the members of the section propose, if
necessary, to use the laboratories to which, in their other capacities,
they have access.
It is satisfactory to note this evidence of active interest on the part
of the Institute in psychical studies, and we shall look forward hope
fully to the results which may be attained by the eminent men who
have joined the psychical section. We trust, however, that in the
endeavour to perfect methods of research, they will not be tempted to
neglect existing materials for a research which so far has not been found
to lend itself to the methods used in laboratories for the investigation
of phenomena of a different kind. The most important positive results
hitherto reached in this subject have been gained through first collect
ing material and afterwards evolving suitable scientific methods of
dealing with it ; not by trying to force it into the limited grooves of
specialised scientific procedures evolved to meet different requirements.
MIND READING AND ALLIED PHENOMENA.
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES OF C.
(Continued from the March Journal, page 208.)
(20) In 1892 [C.] was preparing a paper for the Psychical Congress of
the Chicago Exposition. To oblige a friend, he went on December 30th
of that year to a certain Senr. Nascimento, a consulting medium, in order
to obtain diagnoses and some homreopathic medicine. It was between
4 and 5 o'clock in the afternoon when Senr. Nascimento took up the
pencil to satisfy C.'s request. Being afterwards questioned as to the
prospects that awaited C.'s paper, he wrote, " Sempre que podemos, temos
prazer em aimliar os trabalhadores de Ifia i-ontade. D. Cruz. (Whenever
MAY, 1902.] Mind Reading and Allied Phenomena. 231
we can, we are always pleased to help those who work with a will. D.
Cruz.)" This alone was not satisfactory to C. He noticed, however, a
slight tremor in the medium's hand, as if further communication were
intended. Then came, with the letters less sloped and in much slower
writing, " Se me for permetida [sic] tambem pagarei minha dimda de
gratidao. Dora. (If I am allowed, I will also pay my debt of gratitude.
Dora.)" C. could recollect no one of the name of Dora, and said so.
The pencil continued : " Lembra-se da pequena crianqa de Hampton Road.
(Remember the little child of Hampton Road.)" Now, Senr. Nascimento
knew nothing whatever of English, and C. was at once struck with the
English construction of "pequena crianfa." The diminutive form crian-
cinha would be almost invariably used ; and, if not, the adjective would
follow its substantive. " Hampton Road " was really an approximation
to the name of a street in London where a large board-school exists,
which some three years before had been visited by C. His memory
reverted to that period. On the occasion of his visit the conversation
had fallen at lunch-time on the poverty existing in the neighbourhood,
it being affirmed that some of the children attending the school were
too hungry to be able to learn. With some diffidence, for he was
afraid of giving offence, he had offered a gift in money to the kind head
mistress, who gladly accepted it, saying that it would be spent in
penny dinners. On leaving the lunch-room some half dozen of the
poorest girls were presented to him. Stroking the head of one who
was deeply pockmarked, and who seemed to show most the blighting
effect of unfavourable environment, he spoke a few words to them, and
then returned to the work that was going on in the class-rooms. Re
calling this incident, C. conjectured that the message might be from
one of these little ones. He told Senr. Nascimento what had happened
at the school, and insisted on his writing a syllable wanting in the
name "Hampton." This the medium could not obtain, but his hand
soon wrote, in letters that towards the end became bolder and more
regular, " Eu sempre disse assim. En Ihe sou devedwa de affagos que me
fez. Qwndo deixei o corpo, vim aqui encontral-o. (I always said so. I
am grateful to you for your caresses. When I left the body I came
here to meet you.)" It was just possible, but not at all probable, that
the ,poor people in the neighbourhood of the school had a habit of
suppressing the first syllable of the above name. As for " caresses "—
and in the plural—C. could think of nothing worthy of the name,
unless it were the stroking of the girl's head. The word might have
been more freely translated "kindness," which would perhaps have
been nearer the idea which the medium should have transmitted.
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 190-2.
At C.'s request inquiries were made by a Mr. D., resident in London.
He corresponded with, and saw personally, the head mistress of the
school above referred to. After consulting her registers, the latter
wrote to Mr. D., saying : " Dorothy Potter was the only child called
' Dora ' on the registers of the school when C. called on us. She was
very poor at that time, old looking for her years, and seemed as if she
had a weight of care always upon her. Her father was ill—in fact, I
think he was in the hospital about that time—and I might have
specially mentioned her, although I have no certain remembrance of
doing so. She and her sister always shared in the dinners until her
father recovered. Some friends of the mother's then helped them, and
they went out of this district to live beside those friends, so that I have
lost sight of them." Unfortunately, it was not found feasible to trace
Dorothy Potter any farther ; but, as Mr. D. remarked in forwarding
the above information, " the chances are that the child did not weather
the storms of this life for long." Even had the mistress presented the
girl to C. by name, which is very doubtful, it would have been given
as "Dorothy," and not "Dora." For this and other reasons C. does
not think that the explanation by a transferred unconscious memory is
applicable in this case.
[C.'s paper concludes with a description of a supposed personation
of a recently deceased man by a young girl, who did not know him, in
a trance. The personation was not very detailed, some gestures and
attitudes only of the deceased man being reproduced. As already
mentioned, the whole paper, of which select portions only have been
printed in the Journal, will be preserved at the rooms of the Society
and be there accessible to students.]
CASE.
G. 268. Dream.
For the following case of a dream coinciding with the arrival of news
of a death we are indebted to Mr. Andrew Lang. The first account of
the case was sent to Mr. Lang by Mr. Alexander B. Bell, of 102
Harcourt Road, Sheffield, who wrote to him as follows :
Dear Sir, Deer. 4th, 1901.
An odd case of dream coincidence came to my knowledge the other day,
which it occurred to me you might be glad to know of, as you are interested
in such matters. Mr. Brierley, a member of the Sheffield Daily Telegraph
reporting staff, whose work is concerned mainly with cricket and football,
left the office on Sunday night before the news of George Lohmann's death
MAY, 190-2.] Case. 233
t-ame in. On Monday morning, when between sleeping and waking, he
dreamt that George Lohmaim was dead. At breakfast, he mentioned the
matter to his wife, as such an odd thing to dream about, seeing Lohmann's
name had not been before the public in any way, nor in his own mind,
for a considerable time. Then he went down to the office, and the first
news that greeted him on entering was that of Lohmann's death. . . .
ALEXANDER B. BELL.
Mr. Lang wrote asking for a first-hand account from Mr. Brierley,
and Mr. Bell replied as follows :
Dear Sir, December llth, 1901.
I am sorry for the delay in answering your letter ; but I only
got the enclosed from Mr. Brierley last night. In order to make sure
whether he might or might not have heard the news subconsciously, I asked
our sporting sub-editor what time the telegram announcing the death came
in. He says about half-past twelve (midnight). It was just in time for our
first edition. I did not say why I asked him, so he had no inducement to
stretch a point to make things fit in, as one is apt to do in such cases.
Perhaps I ought to say that I am on the editorial staff of the Sheffield
Telegraph myself. . . . ALEXANDER B. BELL.
Mr. Brierley's account enclosed was as follows :
Mr. Bell kindly tells me that you are much interested in my dream con
cerning the death of Lohmann, and for what it may be worth I have
pleasure in briefly relating what happened.
Shortly before seven o'clock on the morning of December 2nd I awoke,
but, not being under the necessity of rising early, I went off to sleep again,
and it was during this period that I dreamt Lohmann had died—I had no
impression where, although I knew he was in South Africa—and I had to
write a sketch of his career. I saw him playing again, and he was focussed
very clearly before me in the act of delivering the ball. This, with a
memory of the first match in which I ever saw him,—the second match
between the sixth Australian team and Shaw and Shrewsbury's Eleven that
had been in the Antipodes the previous year, played at Old Trafford on
September 13, 14, and 15, 1888, when he and Briggs dismissed the whole
side for 35,—left a very vivid impression upon me when I awakened, and
although I attached no significance to the dream, remembering the nature of
my work, I mentioned the incident to my wife when I got down. At that
time, of course, news of Lohmann's death was in the papers, but as I had
left the office the previous evening by half-past nine, at which hour the
cable message had not come through, I was in ignorance of it. Curiously
enough, I did not see a paper that morning until I reached the office, and
the first words that were addressed to me were, "Do you know George
Lohmann is dead ? "
I had not sought to trace any meaning to it, looking upon it merely as a
remarkable coincidence, but, as was pointed out by one of my colleagues to
234- Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1902.
whom I mentioned what had occurred, the strange part of the matter is that
since he left England after the tour of the South Africans in this country,
nothing had appeared to in any way revive memories of him at such a time.
J. A. BRIERLEY.
Through the kindness of Mr. Bell, we obtained later the following
corroboration from Mrs. Brierley ; this was enclosed in a letter dated
December 23rd, 1901 :
All that I can say with regard to Mr. Brierley's account of his dream is
that, just before sitting down to breakfast on the morning he mentions, he
alluded to the fact that he had had a singular fancy in his sleep- -that he
had dreamt Lohmann, the cricketer, was dead, that he had to write an
obituary notice of him, and other things which he has detailed in his own
communication. That he did so relate this to me at that time, I have the
clearest recollection. (Signed) LOUIE BRIERLEY.
Mr. Bell added the following information about Mr. Lohmann :
. . . Mr. George Lohmaun ended his connection with English cricket in
1896, I believe. He was in England with the South African team this
summer, however, and sailed for South Africa again about the end of
August, or perhaps it might be in September. From that time till his
death, his name had quite dropped out of the English papers.
In the Times of December 2nd, 1901, under Eeuter's telegram from
Cape Town, dated yesterday, is the following : " G. Lohmann, the
cricketer, has died of consumption at Majesfontein." Hazell's Annual
gives the date of death as November 30th.
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY FUND.
Account for 1901.
RECEIVED.
Balance from 1900
Dividend on Buenos Aires
Water and Drainage -
Dividend on Victoria Gov
ernment Stock
Interest on Consols
By Disposal of Buenos
Aires Water and Drain
age and Mid Uruguay
Eailway Stock -
£ s.
13 18
d.
6
3 1 9
3
10
249
271 13
0 0
PAID.
By Purchase of £251
14s. lid. Victoria Gov
ernment 3^% Stock
Brokerage
Books for Library -
Balance carried forward -
d.
'259 6
0 14
3 3
X 10
271 13 3
Audited and found correct ; and certificates and securities produced.
January 31< 1902. H. ARTHUR SMITH.
MAT, 1902.] An Epidemic of Hallucinations. 235
AN EPIDEMIC OF HALLUCINATIONS.
The following account is quoted by permission from Folklore for
December, 1901 (Vol. XII. p. 455) :
A SURVIVAL OF TREE-WORSHIP (Communicated by J. G. Frazer).
In this little-visited corner of Tuscany I have come across what appears
to me a curious survival of tree-worship, or rather worship of a spirit of the
woods. I am spending the summer in a little village on the edge of the
great chestnut forests which cover Mount Amiata, an isolated mountain
rising from the Maremma. All summer a movement has been going on ;
the peasants going away by twos and threes at night and returning the
next day tired, but with a queer excited visionary look, which was so
marked that it excited my cariosity. At first they were unwilling to say
much, only that they had been to visit the Madonna in an oak tree ; but as
I have become well known, they grow more communicative, and enter into
particulars. They walk to a certain valley, and there they assert that a lady
(the Madonna, as they believe) appeal's in an oak-tree. They spend the
night in a sort of ecstasy, of which they can tell little, except that it leaves
them " contentissimi." This has been going on all the summer, and some
times there are several thousand people on the spot. When one sees them
going off after their hard day's work, under the Italian sun, to take first a
walk of four hours from here (many come from much further), and then to
spend the whole night in this way, one cannot help feeling that some strong
instinct or feeling must draw them.
The Church discourages the whole thing ; the archpriest of Santafiora
goes so far as to assert that it is a work of the devil, but that would be his
view of any survival of the worship of the wood spirits. The people, though
pious Catholics, will not be prevented from going to their oak-tree ; they are
persuaded it is the Madonna. The Government, which dislikes any religious
ferment among the people, has sent the carabinieri once, who tore down the
offerings which the poor people had hung on the tree, and threw down and
trampled on the candles they had fixed on it ; but this only irritated the
believers. They threaten now to cut down the oak, and post carabinieri on
the spot ; so the whole thing may soon be put down, and you may like to
know about it while it is still going on.
Peasants are not good hands at describing sensations ; about their visions
they can only say they see a strange light, and the Madonna appears, and
they see, or she tells them, wonderful beautiful things. It is all vague as to
detail, but not so as to the sentiment, or as to the vision. Owing to its
isolation, surrounded by the deadly Maremma, the people of this mountain
are particularly primitive ; but an electric tram is threatened, so one had
better study them at once, as that will banish the spirits.
MART LOVETT CAMERON.
La Bagnore, Arcidosso, Prov. di Grosetto,
Italy, 12th Aug., 1901.
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1902.
In the next number of Folklore (Vol. XIII., No. 1, March, 1902),
appeared a note by Mr. Andrew Lang, which we are also allowed to
quote, suggesting that the case was really analogous (as will probably
have occurred to our readers) to the one reported by M. Marillier
in our Proceedings, Vol. VII., p. 100.
TREE WORSHIP.
I venture to suggest that this curious case of collective hallucination, by
night, of the Madonna in an oak-tree, is neither one of "tree-worship" nor
of worship of "wood spirits." In the Dordogne, in the eighties of the last
(nineteenth) century, the French peasants used to gaze for, and some used to
" see," the Madonna in a dark hole in a wall, an ordinary field wall. M.
Marillier communicated a paper on the subject to the Proceedings of the
Society for Psychical Research. Perhaps nobody will call this "stone
worship"? I give an analogous case. Last autumn a friend of mine, a
scientifically-trained man, having heard of " crystal-gazing," made several
experiments. To prevent the existence of reflections in glass or water he
took a common table glass water-jug, surrounded it with dark cloth, covered
his own head with a cloth, and gazed down into the neck of the jug, which
thus became a perfectly dark funnel, answering to the dark hole in the wall
in the Dordogne. He found that the funnel became full of brilliant light,
in which he viewed pictures of people and landscapes. I was present at
this experiment, and tried the funnel, which was quite black. He then
tried the common glass ball in the usual way, with similar results. My
friend is a young athlete in good training, and has this peculiarity, that he
never once has dreamed, as far as his conscious memory goes. I therefore
submit that both the hole in the wall and the dark nocturnal oak are mere
gazing points, like the dark funnel, and that religious suggestibility did the
rest. The Knock case in Ireland is really more curious ; here the visions of
saints and the bright lights were witnessed by the people of Knock both
by day and at night, on the outside wall of the parish church (Catholic).
Wood spirits and tree worship are not in question, I think. A. LANG.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[ The Editor in not responsible for opinion* expressed by Correspondentx.]
PROFESSOR HYSLOP'S REPORT ON MRS. PIPER.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
February 15th, 1902.
So far, I have not noticed any reference to the peculiar attitude assumed by
Professor Hyslop and Dr. Hodgson in regard to the "mode of life" of
Imperator and his friends. I happen to be one of the unscientific worms
trodden upon so vigorously by Professor Hyslop on pages 244-247 and 200
MAY, 1902.] Correspondence. 237
in his report, because we say : " Spiritism cannot be accepted or proved
until we know something about the conditions of life in the transcendental
world alleged as a consequence of these experiments." Professor Hyslop
bases his objection to enquiries about the mode of life of the alleged spirits
on " the necessary insolubility of the problem in any such terms as they [the
majority of mankind] have been accustomed to represent their knowledge "
(page 246). Professor Hyslop also says : " Statements about a discarnate
life are, of course, worthless as evidence, because they are unverifiable, and
even if veracious, are in addition not necessarily intelligible" (page 247).
These seem to me to be surprising statements to be made by a Professor of
Logic, especially such a capable and clear-headed one as Professor Hyslop's
report on Mrs. Piper proves him to be ; and my desire ill writing this
letter is to insist that Professor Hyslop and those who think with him have
missed the point of the unscientific worms' argument. Let me state it in a
way that will give no further excuse for it being ignored.
As Professor Hyslop says on page 246, there are two problems : (1) the
existence of spirits, (2) their mode of life. That is to say, there is a subjec
tive side and an objective side to the enquiry. We have first to ask, " Who
are you ? " And then, as I and the other unscientific worms maintain, but
as Professor Hyslop denies, " Where are you ? " Necessarily, " Who are
you?" comes first; but as soon as there is prima facie evidence of spirit
identity (as Drs. Hodgson and Hyslop now contend), then the second aspect
of the problem, "Where are you?" should be attacked. And for this
reason ;—a reason, judging by his attitude, entirely overlooked by Professor
Hyslop,—that the question of " Where are you I " (or more strictly, " Under
what conditions do you exist ?") is the crucial test of the genuineness of the
spirits. If they are real spirits, it will be impossible to involve them in
obvious contradictions. Many of their statements may not be intelligible to
us, but they will not be contradictory, and if apparently so, the contradic
tions will be resolved by further explanations. If, on the other hand, they
are not real spirits, then, as the construction of a universe, even in its
smallest fragment, is an infinite problem, it will be impossible for any finite
incarnate mind, either primary or secondary, to construct by an effort of the
imagination a spiritual world consistent with itself, or consistent with what
we know of the physical universe. In Professor Hyslop's own words (page
278) : " When it reaches the point of supposing such a world, it is haunted
with the oracular obscurity and contradictions of the natural ignorance
of any brain on such a subject, as well as the limitations of supraliminal
experience."
As the champion of the unscientific worms, I may give one illustration of
our argument. Imperator and his friends repeatedly speak of the medium,
or something connected with her, as " the light." " How can we manage
the light without thee, friend 1" " The light is failing." " We will restore
this light a little." " We will use the light." " We cannot possibly hold
the light, it is going out, and we must go with it." " Friend, the light is
going out with us."
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1902.
This, of course, is incomprehensible, but it is not inapprehensible, and it
certainly is not inconceivable, and it seems to me to be strikingly vrai-
semblable. It is not an idea that would readily occur to an incarnate mind,
primary or secondary, and it is stated so persistently, and on such seemingly
proper occasions, that it leaves a favourable impression. Other statements
by the Imperator group are, I am sorry to say, far from being as satisfactory
as this. For instance, the assertion that spirits have etherial bodies the
exact counterparts of our physical bodies is, prima facie at any rate, and in
the form in which it has hitherto been stated, sheer nonsense. As the
statement stands, without further explanations, it is full of absurdities and
contradictions. If Imperator is a real spirit, he will be able to give such
explanations as will make the statement, if not acceptable, at least not incon
ceivable to rational beings. If he is merely a secondary personality, then he
will not be able to do so.
We are merely demanding the right of cross-examination. Imperator and
his friends all guarantee each other's genuineness, and if they do not submit
satisfactorily to the test of cross-examination, so much the worse for them
and their pretensions. In any case, Professor Hyslop is not justified in
devoting 250 pages to special pleading in favour of spiritism, and at the
same time trying to suppress enquiry along the one line that holds out a
reasonable prospect of testing the genuineness of the spirits. Surely Im
perator might spare a few moments of his august time to answer one simple,
elementary, plain, little question, namely :
How did Imperator cross the Atlantic ?
How effective such a cross-examination would be is shown by the peep
behind the scenes afforded by Mrs. Sidgwick's paper in Part XXXVI. of
the Proceedings. We would like again to hear " Sir Walter Scott " on the
subject of " Monkeys in the Sun," and Imperator's luminiferous remarks
about the composition of our etherial bodies warrant us in looking forward
to a scientific treat when he again discourses on that subject. Those who
are inclined to grow enthusiastic over Professor Hyslop's report would do
well to read Mrs. Sidgwick's paper once more. Why has the evidence to
which Mrs. Sidgwick refers not been published in its due sequence ?
DONALD MURRAY.
ON "AN ALLEGED CASE OF ELONGATION."
[The following comments on a case printed in the Journal for July,
1901, have been sent to us by an Associate of the American Branch,
who suggests—on the hypothesis that the " elongation " was the result
•of trickery—three possible methods by which it might have been
accomplished. It would be a useful work for members who have some
skill and experience in conjuring, to try whether, by some such method,
and under similar conditions, the effect described could be reproduced.
—EDITOR.]
MAY, 190-2.] On "An Alleged Case of Elongation." 239
(1) We are told (p. 107, Hue 20) that he "appeared to be drawn upwards
by his hands "—which were stretched " straight out above his head." Now
are we sure that his hands could reach nothing sufficiently substantial to
enable him to raise his body in this way ? Of this we are told nothing
definite. The ceiling of the " bow window " was lower by six inches than
that of the remainder of the room ; and there were curtains separating them.
On what were the curtains hung ? On a rod—as is usually the case ? And
if so, would this rod be sufficiently substantial to sustain the medium's
weight, assisted, perhaps, by one or both feet ? As for the hands seen
against the ceiling, they may have been the medium's shown alternately—be,
meanwhile, supporting himself with the other hand. The objection to this
hypothesis is that the medium's feet were held, and on this basis they would
necessarily have to be free. When we read that the medium's " feet " were
held, we must presume, in this case at least, that it was his shoes that were
so held—and very insecurely at that. I would suggest, therefore, either
that the medium slipped out of his shoes and left them under the careful
supervision of his guardians while he "elongated" himself as above de
scribed ; or that dummy feet were substituted, whilst his own followed the
rest of his body, as they would under ordinary circumstances.
(2) My second hypothesis is that dummy feet were substituted, or his
shoes left under observation, as above described, and that the medium
mounted, in some way, by means of his stocking feet. This would cause his
body to be elevated from the floor to the extent described, and enable his
arms to be seen against the ceiling, as they would really be at that height
from the ground floor. The question is, on what did the medium find a foot
hold ? We read (p. 108) " the only chair near (D) I pushed away when the
medium began to sway backwards and forwards, fearing he would knock
himself against it." On the other hand the chairs at A and B were not
moved during the whole phenomenon—" we none of us moved from our
chairs during the whole time " (note under diagram). The distance from D
(the medium's position) does not appear to be more than a few inches (under
one foot, at any rate), if the diagram is drawn to scale. One other suspicious
point in favour of this hypothesis is the following : " On my attempting to
rise from my chair the ' Indian ' requested me to remain seated." On one
hypothesis this is comprehensible—if the medium's feet were on the rungs of
the chair, the latter would slip if the occupant rose therefrom. One other
item. In speaking of the position of furniture, etc., in the room, we see (p.
108, last lines) that " a small inlaid writing bureau with sloping lid [sepa
rated the medium] from the edge of the curtain on his left." This would
evidently be only a few inches from the medium's position also, and might
have afforded some additional foothold. Finally, it must be remembered
that the attention of the investigators seems to have been almost entirely
concentrated on the medium's arms and the upper portion of his body ; he,
no doubt, attracting attention thereto, as he seems to have done with his
" patter " and continued calling of attention to the length and direction of the
arms. Thus, " The ' Red Indian ' (who was controlling) called to us then to
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [MAY, 1902.
observe his hands, one arm . . . being quite six inches longer than the
other. . . . Again our attention was directed to the fact that the shorter
arm had been elongated to match the other." Here, at any rate, the " con
trol " makes deliberate attempts to attract attention to the upper part of the
body, whereas the investigators were only " conscious " that their feet rested
on those of the medium. From their strained position, observation must
have been next to impossible. As to the lengthening of the arms (first one
and then the other), I venture to suggest that a mere natural extension of
one and contraction of the other would have appeared to give that result.
For we read, " from our position this was difficult for my brother and me to
see, but was quite apparent to Mrs. S. at (C)." But Mrs. S. was seated " at
least four feet from the medium," and we must remember that the light was
exceedingly bad (as it appears), and Mr. S. (at B), was probably between the
medium and the lamp, to a certain extent, from the very nature of his
position.
(3) My third hypothesis I admit to be exceedingly improbable ; but it is,
to my mind, more conceivable than a genuine manifestation of the pheno
menon of " elongation." It is that the medium employed dummy arms to
display against the background of the ceiling, and that -some sliding
mechanism was attached to his body, which, being elevated, would carry the
investigator's hands along with it (his feet remaining on the floor), and thus
give the sensation of moving the whole upper part of the medium's body.
It will be observed that only the medium's hands and arms were actually
seen to be at an unusual distance from the floor—nothing is said of the body
being seen in its elevated position—it is merely inferred from the sense of
touch.
Taking now the three hypotheses here advanced as an explanation of the
alleged case of " Elongation " reported in the July Journal, it is admitted
that each and every one of these is a severe strain on our credulity. The
question is simply this : Knowing what we do of the fallacies of human
observation, and the scope of fraud, are we justified in thinking that the
hypothesis of trickery here advanced is more inconceivable than the actual
phenomenon of elongation itself ? Speaking personally, the former explana
tion is to me the more thinkable of the two, and while wavering to some
extent between the three hypotheses here offered, I am inclined to accept
the second as that which strains the evidence (and our credulity) least.
But a more detailed account is needed before anything definite can be
decided upon, either for or against the genuineness of the phenomenon.
HEKEWARD CARRINGTON.
No. CXC.—VOL. X. JUNK, 1902.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
A Case of supposed Thought-Reading. By F. N. Hales, 241
The Fire-Walk in Mauritius, 250
Correspondence :
Dr. Lodge's Presidential Address, 253
Reply by Dr. Lodge, 255
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, 256
A CASE OF SUPPOSED THOUGHT-EEADING.
BY F. N. HALES.
SOME years ago a curious case of what appeared to be thought-reading
on the part of a child of about six years old was published in the Annales
des Sciences Psyehiques (November-December, 1894), and a brief note
summarising the account was printed in the Journal for February, 1895
(Vol. VII. p. 29). The case had originally been communicated in 1893
to the SocUt6 de MMecine d'Angers by Dr. Quintard, whose report of his
personal observations was confirmed at the time by Dr. Tesson. Dr.
Petrucci, Director of the Asylum of Maine-et-Loire, and several other
medical men also examined the percipient (who was called Ludovic
X.), and apparently found no flaw in the report of his powers.
Dr. Quintard stated that Ludovic X. showed promise at the age of
five years of rivalling the feats of the most celebrated "calculating boys."
When his mother began to teach him the multiplication table, she
found that he could say it as well as she could, and he gave without a
pause correct answers to the most complicated problems in mental
arithmetic. An intuitive faculty for languages, as well as for mathe
matics, seemed to be developed in this infant prodigy, who would
translate at hearing any sentence in English, Spanish or Greek, and
gave a satisfactory solution of a Latin riddle. To the disappointment
of his parents and friends, these apparently remarkable powers turned
out later to be due to " mere telepathy." It was almost always necessary
that his mother should fix her mind on the right answer to the problem,
whatever it was, before he could give it, and he could repeat equally
well anything else that she was thinking of, such as a given number or
word, or a card drawn from a pack. His unerring capacity for guessing
his mother's thoughts was found to be a serious drawback when she
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1902.
tried to teach him to read. He read from her mind instead of from the
book, and exercising neither his judgment nor his memory, made no
progress. Ingenious devices had to be resorted to to baffle him, and
everything was done to discourage and stifle the " telepathic " power
on the advice of Dr. Quintard, who wrote to Dr. Dariex (editor of the
Annales) in September, 1894, that it seemed to be gradually disappear
ing; on some days Ludovic X. could only guess the beginnings of
words, instead of the whole of them.
The case excited a good deal of interest at the time. It was
"boomed" by the daily press; it was looked upon as a scientific
discovery of the first importance by amateurs of the uncanny ; it
attracted the attention of Charcot and Gilles de la Tourette. Finally
it was enshrined as an indubitable fact " avec toutes les garanties
d'authenticit6 " in M. Camille Flammarion's L'Inconnu et les Problemes
Psychiques (p. 352) and even briefly summarised in Mr. F. Podmore's
Studies in Psychical Research (p. 211).
During a visit to Angers early in 1901, I took the opportunity of
making all possible enquiries on the spot, and saw the principal
witness, Dr. Quintard. I came to the conclusion that there was
really no evidence for thought-transference in the case, but that the
child's success in guessing probably depended on unconscious and
involuntary whispering by his mother of the words to be guessed.
The case is interesting, not only as proving once more the un
reliability of certain species of evidence, but because it probably
affords an illustration of a possible source of error in telepathic
experiments which was long ago emphasised by members of our
Society (e.g. by Mr. Gurney in Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I. p. 18,
and by Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick in Proceedings, Vol. VI. p. 164),
but the danger of which is likely to be overlooked by inexperienced
investigators, in spite of Hansen and Lehmann's later experiments in
involuntary whispering. The present is, however, perhaps the only
case published and long accepted as genuine, in which subsequent
evidence affords a prima facie presumption that the results were due
to this source of error. It has therefore been thought worth while for
me to give the results of my investigation at length.
I was greatly helped in obtaining information by the kind efforts of
M. Lestang, Directeur de PEcole Normale d'Instituteurs d'Angers,
who gave me introductions to some of the persons concerned, and
himself endeavoured to obtain further evidence from others. The case
was curiously complicated by various personal considerations—political
and other—entirely unconnected with the evidential aspect, and these
JUNE, 1902.] A Case of supposed Thought-Reading. 243
formed the greatest obstacle to the investigation. On January 10th,
1901, I succeeded in interviewing Dr. Quintard, and I quote the
following from my notes of the interview, written the next day.
I was not specially well received. I told him my business. He said that
in his article everything had been said, and there was no need for more
precise details. He had received numberless letters about it, all proposing
different theories, and all asking different questions. In spite of this
inauspicious beginning, however, I managed to get all my questions
answered, and elicited a lot of information, probably authentic, which is
not to be found in the original article. We parted the best of friends, and
it was somewhat difficult for me to get away. He assured me he would be
only too glad to answer any question I would like to ask.
My questions had in view two objects :
(1) To find out whether there was any clairvoyance in the matter, as dis
tinguished from thought-transference.
(2) Of what kind the thought-transference, if any, might be.
Another even more important question was to decide what relation the
words uttered by the child bore to the state of his general knowledge.
(1) The mother's presence was in all cases altogether necessary. Thus,
supposing somebody wanted only to translate a foreign idiom, the mother
would have to know the translation, and the child would make precisely the
same mistakes which the mother fell into. Further, were the mother to
verbalise an object and immediately leave the room, the child could not give
ithe answer. A certain time seemed to be required. So also a certain
proximity. At 17 yards the child would begin to ' bredouiller ' indistinctly ;
:at 13 a little more distinctly ; at 10 the word was complete. Again, place
the mother on one side of a door and the child on the other—no transmission
took place. I forget whether other screens were used. Apparently the
.child did not necessarily look towards the mother when answering ; and if
she kept her back turned upon him, the phenomenon took place nevertheless.
A special point is that, out of a very large number of trials, there was never
one failure.
(2) Of what kind was the thought-transference, and is lecture des pensdes
a proper term for it ? The phenomena began sporadically at the age of 4J,
when the mother began to teach the child to read. They were subjected to
numerous experiments during the child's fifth year ; this process lasted six
months. The father, fearing the child might never learn to exercise its
faculties of judgment, etc., and that it might become idiotic, endeavoured to
put an end to these manifestations. From the age of seven they diminished.
When, therefore, the child solved the complicated problems recorded, it
.could not read, nor certainly calculate ; and had the number 38,196,000 been
written on a piece of paper, it could not have read it. Similarly, it could
tell what were the coins in a closed drawer—Napoleons 1871, etc.—provided
the mother knew, although it could not have counted the money nor have
itold the difference of its own accord between a louis and a sou. The child
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1902.
was never known to speak out the thoughts of the mother in ordinary life.
An ordinary train of thoughts, with its fringes and fugitive phases, did
not get expressed by the child ; but only substantive states, a word, a
verbalised sentence. There appears to have been a clear difference between
its usual way of talking and its " thought-reading " : in the latter case each
syllable would be pronounced se-par-ate-ly. Not only vocal automatism, but
muscular (writing to dictation) was observed. The child does not seem to
have had any visual images or transmission of visual images. Questioned
as to what he thought about this, the father answered that he considered it
probable that there were no visual images ; there never seemed any
evidence of any, although there is no strict proof that there were none.
Was it a transmission of auditory images ? The experiments in dictation
seem to prove that this was not the case. Ordinarily he made howlers—
writing phonetically. With his mother he never made a mistake.
Dr. Quintard had spoken of "very many" experiments which had
been made, and cited a few abstractly typical cases. He had mentioned,
too, a fact which, if it could be shown to be genuine, would be of the
greatest possible importance : the child's writing to dictation correctly
for his mother, incorrectly for any one else. If I am compelled to say
that Dr. Quintard's conversation convicted him even more thoroughly
than the article in the Annales of being devoid of any notion of
scientific method, it is because he mentioned this muscular automatism
without appearing to appreciate its fundamental importance. What
evidence could he adduce in proof of his assertions 1 Had any contem
porary record been kept of the experiments ? Had any of the child's
attempts at writing from dictation been preserved ? These questions
Dr. Quintard answered as follows :
ANGERS, 30 Janv., 1901.
Cher Monsieur Hales,
Je reponds point pour point a votre honoree lettre du 28 courant,
vous rep6tant ce que j'avais dejei eu 1'avantage de vous dire chez moi de vive
voix, que j'avais donn6 Pobservation aussi complete qu'il m'avait et6 possible,
ce qui vous expliquera pourquoi je solutionne negativement la plupart de
vos questions, dont cependant j'appr6cie I'int6ret.
1°. II n'a et6 gard6 aucune des dictees faites par le jeune Ludovic, la
mere n'ayant attache aucune importance aux essais de son enfant.
2°. Ayant vecu aupres de cet enfant, que j'avais constamment sous les yeux,
je n'ai eu besoin d'aucune note pour rediger mon observation, qui constitue
en somme un document contemporain pris sur le vif.
3°. Aucun autre ecran que celui represent^ par une porte interposee entre
la mere et 1'enfant n'a ete employe. Le petit bonhomme se prStait docile-
ment, et sans chercher a comprendre, a I'expeVience. Nul doute que les
r6sultats eussent et6 les m§mes avec n'importe quelle disposition d'6cran.
4°. Apres six ou sept ans je n'ai plus presents a Pesprit les noms des
JUNE, 1902.] A Case of supposed Thought-Reading. 245
m6deoins qui, apres la lecture de mon memoire k la Societ6 de Medecine,
sent venus voir le petit phenomena. Si, a l'epoque, je n'ai cite qu'un nom,
c'est qu'il representait une grande autorit6, etant celui du luedecin en chef
de 1'asile departemental de Maine et Loire [Dr. Petrucci].
DR. E. QUINTARD.
This letter could hardly be considered satisfactory. If, at the end of
six or seven years, Dr. Quintard had forgotten the names of the—not
very many—medical men who came to witness the phenomena, is it not
likely that his other recollections might have gone through a process of
selection 1 Dr. Hodgson's observations on the " Possibilities of Mai-
Observation " exposed long ago the peculiar tricks our memory is liable
to play us even when the interval between actual perception and recall
is short, but after six or seven years who can compute the amount of
simplification a tale may have gone through at the two hundreth time
of telling? Long ago, Dr. Quintard formed an opinion about the
phenomena in question. He may at first have related them in all their
complexity of detail. But it is tedious to go on repeating for ever the
same small circumstances which one is quite certain were unessential.
So by degrees they get omitted, and before long they are forgotten.
Finally, the particular cases merge into one typical instance, but this
typical instance is a consequence of a theory ; and when we are offered
such a typical instance as a proof, we can consider it as the proof of
nothing but the workings of a particular mental organisation. In the
absence of any contemporary documents, the only evidence that could
be relied upon was that of the medical men who were quoted as having
witnessed the phenomena. And here it is just as well to enter a word
of caution concerning the witness whom Dr. Quintard calls " une grande
autoriteV' I am not aware that, apart from this case, whose paternity,
we shall see, Dr. Petrucci does his best to repudiate, his fame has
extended very far beyond the walls of St. Gemmes' Asylum. As to Dr.
Guichard (Professor of Obstetrics at the Angers Medical School), it is
perhaps not unfair to remind the reader that after all Angers is not
Paris, and Obstetrics has little to do with Psychology.
Great difficulties were experienced in getting evidence from the other
witnesses mentioned in the original account. Dr. Tesson left M.
Lestang's letters of enquiry unanswered, and was always out when he
called. (" La volont^ de faire le mort est manifeste," says M. Lestang
at last.) Dr. Petrucci, who was stated by Dr. Quintard in the Annales
to have been one of the doctors who witnessed experiments with the
child, refused to give M. Lestang a written account, but told him in
an interview (described by M. Lestang in a letter to me) that he
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1902.
was twice present at experiments made by the mother, which seemed
to him inconclusive. They were not very successful, as the child only
repeated partially, and after many mistakes, the answers to problems,
and the Latin words which his mother was trying to make him say.
He observed, further, gestures, movements of the lips, and semi-articu
late sounds on her part which the child might have interpreted. He
thought the experimenters credulous persons, who, being convinced of
the supernormal nature of the phenomena, unconsciously assisted in
their production. He represented Dr. Tesson as considering the whole
affair to be " a humbug." He said that Dr. Guichard had witnessed
the experiments, and took the same view of them that he did. Dr.
Guichard held the child on his knees while the mother tried in vain to
transmit a Latin phrase to him. The child fidgeted a great deal, and
at last said, "A little louder, mamma; I can't hear." Dr. Petrucci
said that it was merely out of friendship for Dr. Quintard that he and
Dr. Tesson had abstained from contradicting the printed reports in
newspapers,' etc., in which their names had appeared as corroborating
his account. They disbelieved the facts, but were unwilling to make
any written statements on the subject.
In reply to a letter from myself, Dr. Pe'trucci wrote declining to
commit himself to any positive statement on the subject, and pleading
as an excuse for his silence the obligations of the " secret profes-
sionnel."
M. Lestang saw Dr. Guichard (Professor of Obstetrics at the Angers
Medical School), and he promised to send a detailed account of what
he had witnessed. After a further request from me, this account
was received, and is printed below.
Dr. Guichard, in the letter accompanying it, states that he sent a
similar report of the case at the time to Dr. Gilles de la Tourette, who
communicated it to Professor Charcot.
EXAMEN DBS FAITS.
I. Une multiplication de deux nombres de 5 chiffres est faite par nous ;
le resultat est transmis Ji M. Q. et Mme. X.—Mme. X. demands d son fils le
produit, qu'il 6pelle en regardant sa mere.
II. Je fais un dessin au crayon : Moulin a vent et paysage—Mme X.
demande k son fils ce que j'ai dessine.
Le fils, toujours regardant sa mere, finit par 1'indiquer dans ses details,
apres de nombreuses hesitations, comme dans la premiere experience.
III. Je prends un dictionnaire ; j'ouvre d une page quelconque ; je prie
Mme. X. de le prier de lire la premiere ligne ; il 6pelle toujours regardant
sa m6re, et avec des hesitations continuelles.
IV. M. Q. prend un jeu de cartes, et fait voir Mme. X. une s6rie de cartes
JUNE, 1902.] A Case of supposed Thought-Reading. 247
diflSrentes ; tout le jeu aurait pu y passer. Mme. X. questionne son fils,
qui repond, toujours regardant sa mere.
II parait que cette derniere exp6rience faisait l'6tonnement de toutes les
persounes etrangeres et amies, qui dans les petites reunions et soir6es intimes,
tombaient d'admiration, et auraient bientot cri6 au miracle.
D'autres petites experiences du mSme ordre furent faites ; pour votre
edification, je me borne a celles-la.
Mon opinion commencait a se faire. Le fils r6pondait toujours regardant
sa mere, et la mere posait les demandes apres avoir pris connaissance de la
r6ponse.
Je priai le fils de s'asseoir sur une chaise, et Mme. X. de se placer derriere
le dossier, le fils tournant le dos a sa mtjre, moi les separant. J'ecrivis une
phrase que je passai a la mere ; je pris la tSte du fils entre mes deux mains,
lui bouchant les oreilles et lui tins ce langage :
" Vous Stes bien gentil, dites-moi ce qui est ecrit sur le billet qui j'ai remis
a votre mere."
Je maintins la t6te de facon qu'il ne put voir la figure de sa mere ni
directement ni indirectement dans une des glaces du salon.
Le fils X. chercha par tous les moyens a se retourner ; je lui parlais
toujours tris-gentiment, mais le maintenais immobile ; toute reponse fut
impossible, le charme etait rompu. L'explication devient done bien
simple. . . .
Nous pouvons, je crois, facilement interpr6ter les faits.
Interpretation.
J'ai 1'honneur de faire partie de la commission de 1'etablissement des sourds
et muets d'Angers ; on les divise en signifiants et en parlants, suivant que,
selon la methode ancienne ils s'expriment par signes—ou que, selon la
methode nouvelle on leur enseigne a parler (certains tres-correctement).
Ces derniers, pour r6pondre a une question, a eux adressee, lisent sur les
levres du demandeur ; ils sont fort g§n6s quand le questionneur a des
moustaches trop epaisses.
Madame X. inconsciente, en faisant les demandes a son fils, epelait avec ses
levres les reponses, sans s'en rendre compte et par habitude ; 1'enfant repetait
ce qui etait mim6 par les levres de sa mere, comme le sourd-muet parlant.
Lorsque nous avons mis le fils X. dans l'impossibilit§ de lire sur les levres
de sa mere une reponse quelconque, toute response a cessS completement.
Le charme etait rompu ; le prodige et le miracle s'etaient eVanouis.
Voila Interpr6tation que j'avais transmise a Gilles de la Tourette et a
Chareot ; elle leur avait amplement suifi, pour ne pas avoir recours a d'autre
examen personnel. A. GUICHARD.
ANGERS, le 9 novembre, 1901.
The first communication from Dr. Guichard was not as complete as
might have been wished. The explanation is arrived at somewhat too
easily ; some of the data most essential to it are rather implied than
expressed. For instance, did Dr. Guichard actually observe the move
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JCNE, 1902.
ments of the mother's lips ? Were these movements at all obvious 1
Could he himself—with his large experience in the deaf and dumb
school—have read the words Madame X. was consciously or uncon
sciously articulating ? These questions were all prima facie important,
and all equally neglected by Dr. Guichard in his first report, which, he says,
had entirely satisfied Charcot and Gilles de la Tourette. In fact, it is
hardly an exaggeration to assert that there is nothing in this report to
indicate that Dr. Guichard's conclusion (" Madame X. inconsciente, en
faisant les demandes a son fils, e'pelait avec ses levres les r^ponses, mais
sans s'en rendre compte et par habitude ") is anything more than a
genial hypothesis. It is strange, I say, that Dr. Guichard should have
made no reference to vital facts which he was able subsequently to
describe in so positive a manner. In reply to my questions, Dr.
Guichard sent me the following supplementary details :
Je tiens a dire dans quel ordre d'idees a et6 dirigg 1'examen des fails ; mon
intention etait bien arr§tee d'observer separ6ment I'infant X., puis Monsieur
Q., enfin Madame X. pour en induire la part que chacun pouvait prendre
dans les faits a interpreter.
J'amrme
I. De 1'examen s6par6 de 1'enfant X., que jamais il n'a repondu sana regarder
sa mere, soit que M. Q. ou moi-meme posions des questions ; la mere
connaissait toujours la r6ponse a faire.
II. De 1'examen s6par6 de M. Q., qu'il se bornait a poser des questions, en
fixant 1'enfant, et ne faisait aucun mouvement des livres ; que 1'enfant ne le
regardait jamais—que M. Q. fut-il place en vis-a-vis de la mere, a une
distance assez grande de 5 a 6 me'tres par exemple, c'est toujours Mme. X.
qui etait le point de mire de 1'enfant.
III. De 1'examen separtS de Madame X., que, lorsque Mme. X. faisait la
demande habituelle "Ludo (il s'appelle Ludovic) dis-moi le resultat de la
multiplication de tel chifFre par tel chiffre, ou bien, dis-moi la premiere ligne
a la page ouverte de ce c6te du dictionnaire, etc," immecliatement, les levres
de la mere (qui avait lu le resultat ou qui avait sous les yeux le dictionnaire)
mimaient la r6ponse d'une facon inconsciente, comme certains professeurs ou
meres de famille ont 1'habitude de souffler une r6ponse a une enfant qui n'est
pas sur de sa reponse.
Par la connaissance, que j'avais des sourds-muets parlants, je pouvais lire
moi-m§me sur les levres de la me're, d'autant mieux que le fils se trompait
souvent, et donnait la reponse fort mal quelquefois.
Madame X. etait obligee de mimer, d'epeler sur ses ISvres plusieurs fois le
uieme chiflEre ou le m6me mot ; je 1'avais lu moi-m§me avant que 1'enfant ait
compris—surtout pour les mots qu'il ne pouvait connaitre.
IV. De 1'examen simultan6 de la mere et du fils X, fait d'un coup d'oail
rapide de 1'un a 1'autre, j'ai acquis la certitude que la r6ponse du fils suivait
toujours 1'epellation mimee sur les levres de la me're.
JUNE, 1902.] A Case of supposed Thought-Reading. 249
V. Lorsque tout rayon visuel, et aussi peut-§tre toute possibility d'entendre
le chuchottement meme des Idvres ou des paroles (il existe des finesses d'ouie
extraordinaires chez certains jeunes sujets) lorsque rayon visuel et oui'e furent
snpprimes, le dit fils X., sujet en experience, manifesta des impatiences com-
prehensibles, ainsi que M. Q. et sa mere, qui se sent fort bien rendu compte
que toute r6ponse du fils 6tait impossible dans ces conditions, mais qui par
inconscieuce revenaient a leurs process habituels dans le fagon de questionner,
et manifestaient leur satisfaction d'obtenir une reponse.
CONCLUSION.
En resum6 je conclus que toutes les fois que la vue et 1'oui'e out 6te
supprim6s chez le fils X. dans les experiences, jamais il n'a pu faire aucurie
reponse.
M. Q. et Mme. X. se sont faits inconsciemment une interpretation erron6e
des faits qui comportent 1'explication la plus simple ; ils ont joue le r61e
de souffleur involontaire ou de professeurs de muets-parlants.
Quant k la mise en rapport du cerveau de la mere avec le cerveau du fils
par des rayons inconnus Y ou Z—quant k une double vue, inconnue des
savants, qui s'appellent Charcot ou Gilles de la Tourette, je decline toute
competence dans I'incompreliensible. A. GUICHARD.
ANGERS, le 13 noveinbre, 1901.
However this may be—and we would not care to contest the assertion
—we can but regret that there are not sufficient data for estimating the
value of Dr. Guichard's evidence. It is obvious that it sometimes
contradicts Dr. Quintard's. Whereas the one asserts the phenomena to
have taken place even when the child was not looking at Madame X.,
or when Madame X.'s back was turned, the other is equally positive
that nothing came about unless the child looked at Madame X.
Evidently both these accounts cannot be right, although they might
both be wrong. How many experiments did Dr. Guichard conduct,
and on how many separate occasions ? We are not told. Both
accounts agree at least in one respect, and that is fundamental. They
both deal exclusively in the typical, and the typical case is of course
moulded by a general theory about all the cases. What seems to be
irrelevant detail is left out by both witnesses, and they have, of course,
different standards of relevancy. Their recollections appear to have
become simplified, according to the same law, in the same degree,
and in opposite directions. Dr. Quintard,—always, I am told, inclined
to look upon his relation to the universe as a very special one,—liked the
formula "lecture des pensees." Dr. Guichard has seen something of
the Salpetriere, and heard of suggestion. The case seems to me one of
those in which the belief about a fact, and the process of growth of the
belief, are quite as important as the fact itself. The analysis of the
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1902.
process is not of course complete until we can form some positive
notion about the actual fact. If there was any thought-transference in
this case, it is impossible to prove. On the other hand, Dr. Guichard
seems to us only less incompetent as an observer than Dr. Quintard. It
will be remembered that the former makes no mention in his reports of
the experience with which Dr. Petrucci credits him. " A little louder,
mamma, I can't hear." Is this an illusion of memory on Dr. P6trucci's
part ? Or is this another " typical " case, a dramatic resum6 of Dr.
Guichard's observations 1 We cannot, and perhaps we need not, decide
with certainty. But it is instructive to contrast the recollections
of Dr. Quintard, according to which "out of a very large number of
trials there was never one failure"; with those of Dr. Guichard,
according to which there was never one genuine success.
THE FIRE-WALK IN MAURITIUS.
From time to time accounts of the ceremony of the Fire-Walk, as
practised in different parts of the world, have been printed in the
Journal, in the hope of eliciting more numerous and more complete
observations by competent witnesses, which might help to solve the
question whether any supernormal powers are really exhibited in the
phenomenon. It is generally admitted in these accounts that the
fire-walkers are not injured by the performance, and sceptical observers
as a rule base their explanations of this supposed fact on one of two
main arguments—maintaining either (1) that the feet of the fire-
walkers are protected by means of some kind of lotion ; or (2) that the
part of the fire with which they come into contact is not actually so
hot as it appears.
We have recently received an account from Mauritius, printed
below, which takes a new line. The writer believes the fire to be
really hot, but he denies that the fire-walkers are not burnt. He also
suggests that the Fire-Walk is a self-torturing ceremony, like those to
be found in many other rituals. This suggestion seems to throw some
light on the subject, and the point is one which has, we believe, been
more or less overlooked by previous observers.
Mr. Piddington writes :
April 29th, 1902.
"I sent the Journal for December, 1901, containing Mrs. Schwabe's
account of fire-walking in Mauritius to my uncle, Mr. John Piddington,
and asked him if he could throw any more light on the subject.
" My uncle has resided for nearly 50 years in the Mauritius, and is a
JUNE, 1902.] The Fire- Walk in Mauritius. 251
man of an accurate habit of mind, and he would not commit himself to
statements of fact nor to opinions without having first carefully enquired
into and studied the evidence. I enclose his letter. Some remarks
in it are due to his misconception of the objects and methods of
the S.P.E., but they concern only the interpretation of the facts, and
not the facts themselves. I showed the letter yesterday (April 28, 1902)
to a friend of mine, Mr. M. G. Jessett, who witnessed a fire-walking cere
mony in Mauritius in 1 897, in the hope that he might be able to add
something to the information contained in it. Unfortunately, as he ex
plained to me, he went to the fire-walk simply for amusement and with no
intention of making careful observations. He told me also that it was
extremely difficult to get an unimpeded and continuous view of what
was going on, on account of the crowd and excitement. Mr. Jessett
watched the ceremony from the side furthest away from the finish, and
so is not able to express any opinion as to the physical condition of the
devotees after completing their walk. He states, however, that a ' col
lection' was made among the onlookers, though he himself was not per
sonally invited to subscribe : but whether the collection was made before,
during, or after the ceremony, he cannot now remember. He also
noticed that the burning embers were carefully levelled. So far,
therefore, as Mr. Jessett is able to give any positive evidence, he
corroborates the statements made by my uncle.
"J. G. PlDDINGTON."
The account enclosed is as follows :
MAURITIUS, Feb. 16th, 1902.
Your principal object in writing seems to have been to ask me about fire-
walking, which Mrs. Schwabe writes about to your little journal. Her
description of the ceremony is fairly accurate in general, but she makes
mistakes, and so do you. For instance, I can never remember seeing a
trench as wide as 12 or 15 feet, and although I have never measured it, I
should fancy it is not much more than half that width, but that is beside the
question and unimportant ; but it is less so that she only mentions the
" puddle " after the fire, and says nothing of the one before it, which has
perhaps a bearing on the question. The things are by no means puddles,
but are trenches filled with about 8 or 10 inches of water. She is also
mistaken in saying that no money passes.. Thaumaturgists have ever had
an eye to the main chance, and the hat is freely and actively passed round
during and after the ceremony by the priest "for the goddess." Could you
find no parallel to this in newer and better religions than Buddhism ? The
poor victims, of course, get nothing but the honour.
Mrs. Schwabe is also mistaken in supposing that the votaries are none the
worse for walking upon hot coals. They are most decidedly the worse, as
you will see later, and the instance of her friend's servant coming to serve at
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1902.
table after the walk must, if true, which I doubt, have been a piece of mere
bravado. You make a mistake in speaking of hot stones as the things
walked upon ; they are red-hot wood embers—charcoal in fact.
Since I received your letter I have, in the hopes of adding to or correcting
my knowledge of the ceremony, questioned army doctors, civil doctors, Mr.
Trotter, our " Protector of immigrants," and a variety of people who ought
to know, but have not learnt much that I did not know before, and I have
come to the conclusion that there is very little in the whole thing for
wonder-mongers to feast upon ; but the man from whom I got what I
consider the most reliable information is our " pion," or messenger and office
man at the works. His name is Ackbar ; he is, of course, a Mohammedan,
but he was born here, and has lived all his life among those Hindoos who
practise these self-torturing ceremonies. He has been in my service twenty-
five years, and, strange to say, he is not a liar.
It appears that in most cases the walk is the result of a vow, either in
gratitude for some supposed blessing of the goddess, or to obtain such.
The man who is to walk is subjected to a training of a fortnight. This
training is in no respect physical (I mean that no lotion is used to render
the feet insensible), but is directed towards exciting by every possible
means the mind and the nervous system to the highest pitch, so that the
victims end on the day of the fire-walk by being in a state bordering
on frenzy.
When the time comes, they first walk through the water trench before the
fire, then on to the embers, over which they pass more or less rapidly,
and then through the second pool. Then they go away in a state of
collapse to be nursed. Some are weak-kneed, and try to get out of the
hot trench before the end. These are beaten back with sticks by the
priests, who stand by the trench.
That these poor deluded victims do get badly burned is most certain, for
they have to lay up to recover from their burns for a period varying from a
week to a month.
In all this I do not see anything which cannot be explained without going
to the supernatural. You must remember that Indians who have never
worn shoes, and are the most indefatigable walkers on earth, have the soles
of their feet covered with a layer of horn of enormous thickness. This is
well wetted by walking in the small pond preceding the fire trench, which
naturally delays the transmission of the heat somewhat. I have heard it
said that a solution of alum is used to still further harden the horn, but I
believe this is not so. But notwithstanding the stolidity of the fire-walkers
they sometimes feel the burns, and an instance was given me of this by Mr.
Trotter. Great care is taken to rake the embers small and very flat, so that
the soles only may bear. In this case a large coal had been inadvertently
left, and the man putting his foot upon it, turned over on to his ankle,
which got badly burned. This Mr. Trotter saw.
You must also take into account the love of a large portion of humanity
for making victims and martyrs of themselves. Do not Christian nuns
JUNE, 1902.] The Fire-Walk in Mauritius. 253
flay themselves till the blood runs, and Trappist monks wear hair shirts
(I may be mistaken as to the Order, but the thing is done), and take all
this self-imposed punishment smiling, believing that it is a step towards
Paradise ? Now, Asiatics have this tendency highly developed. . Any day
you may see at the Gamse processions * men stick long pins through their
cheeks and through their tongues horizontally, so that they cannot draw
them back into the mouth. Then they will pucker up the flesh of their
bellies with finger and thumb, and stick the pin through the ruck. All this
without the slightest symptoms of pain. Some stick the pins all over their
bodies, until they begin to look like young porcupines. They then howl and
dance. All devotees will tell you that in certain states of violent nervous
excitement, most kinds of pain are not felt. This explains what we have all
heard as to soldiers in battle being riddled with bullets and not feeling any
thing until touched in some vital part. Then they fall, and the reaction and
collapse follow, and the capacity for pain returns. Does not this explain
what is commonly said that, on going into a dentist's room to have a tooth
drawn, the pain ceases on account of the flutter of excitement caused by the
apprehension of the operation ? I have experienced this many a time and
too often.
I shall be curious to know what you will say to all this. I am very
refractory to the supernatural, and always seek for natural explanations of
phenomena I witness. I forgot to say that the approved treatment for
these burns is washing with an infusion of tamarind leaves, which are very
astringent, and smearing with cocoanut oil when the blisters split and
suppurate, which frequently happens, as pretty complete collapse is known
to follow the fire-walk. I am afraid that either the tale of the man waiting
at table is a yarn, or if the man could stand upright it was a piece of
bravado, but I incline to the first hypothesis. How was he allowed to stay
away for the fortnight's religious preparation at the temple 1 . . .
CORRESPONDENCE.
[ The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by Correspondents. ]
DR. LODGE'S PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Dr. Lodge in his recent Presidential Address set himself to deal with a
matter of the utmost moment to our Society—the bearing of modern
Physical Science upon Psychical Research. " Let us therefore see," he says
(p. 45), " whether, in the light of our present knowledge of Physics, they
[i.e. the traditional physical phenomena] are wholly impossible and absurd,
so that no testimony could produce any effect on our incredulity." In
* The Gams4 is a Mohammedan Feast,
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [.TUNE, 1902.
•discharging his task, he has, as it seems to me, said either too little or too
much. He must know that we look to him to justify for us, in the teeth
of a hostile world of science, the inquiry that means so much to many of us
—if not to all. If I venture to animadvert upon his mode of handling
the question, it is because I am so deeply anxious to sit at his feet and
learn.
Dealing with materialisations, which he finds easier of belief than some
others of the physical phenomena, but which, naturally enough, he does not
pretend to understand, he expresses the opinion "that they may after all
represent only a singular and surprising modification of a known power
of life." What is this known power of life 1 It is the power by which any
animal converts its food into muscle, hair, skin, bone, or feathers. He
conceives it possible that an extra-mundane intelligence " might for a time
utilise the terrestrial particles which come in its way and make for itself a
sort of material structure capable of appealing to our ordinary senses"
(p. 47). Now, what I for one shoxild dearly like to know is, upon what facts
known to modern science the Professor founds? Is there any trace of a
living creature controlling its own vital processes ? When it feeds, does it
know how it feeds ? Is it master of its own organic chemistry ? Can it
determine the destination of any given particle to its microscopic place
in flesh, or skin, or hair ? Even if such a creature were known to exist, or
were only shadowed forth as a coming possibility, how far would that help
us to conceive of an intelligence, not possessed of a digestive and arterial
system like ours at least, appropriating the terrestrial particles that come
in its way, whether organic or inorganic, directing every single one of them
to the formation, not exactly of flesh or skin, but of the appearance of
these ; doing and undoing this at will, but never keeping its material
structure long enough together for any body of observers to make sure that
it is a material structure ? If a spirit could do these things, would it be by
A modification—however singular and surprising—of a known power of life ?
The power to maintain itself is one of the known powers of life. Is the
power to masquerade in a make-believe body one of them, or a modification
of one of them ? Dr. Lodge would confer an infinite favour, on one of us at
least, if he would tell us what is known to Physical science to make such a
power reasonably credible. Spiritualists have explained to me that the
materialising spirit takes "stuff" from the body of the medium with which
to construct the material envelope. This is a simpler process : it escapes
the feeding difficulty ; and seems only a modification of the "known power
of life " which constructs snow-men or Aunt Sallies.
Next as to trance lucidity : what renders credible to Dr. Lodge the
hypothesis of its being caused by the agency of discarnate spirits is our
present knowledge " of the material universe, of its immense scope, and the
number of habitable worlds it contains." He finds it " impossible to deny
the probability that there may be in space an immense range of life and
intelligence of which at present we know nothing." There may and there
may not. Some form of life must be the highest, and, for anything we
JUNE, 1902.] Correspondence. 255
know, that form may be Man. But apart from that, what would be the
rational conclusion from the existence of other habitable worlds of similar
chemical constituents and similar physical properties—worlds vast, solid,
and ponderous like our own ? Why, that they were the abodes of similar
forms of life. The only legitimate reasoning in the case, if we are to remain
sane, is from like to like, not from like to unlike. Else, why may I not
conceive it possible that the natives of Mars may grow eight-day clocks
in their gardens ? We know no more of " etherial bodies," whether they
are physically possible or not, than we do of such vegetable chronometers.
In the next place, is it legitimate to pass per saltnm from beings like
ourselves pinned down to the earth to beings on other planetary globes who
can at any moment set out on a Cook's tour of the universe ? Does Dr.
Lodge know anybody who can fly to Mars or the moons of Jupiter ? If not,
why in the name of sober sense should he suppose anybody can come from
them to us ? And if they could, what could such beings have in common
with us 1 How much would a lark have in common with a lobster, if it took
it into its head to visit the world of waters ?
If speculation of this sort is to be the order of the day, it does not require
eminence in science to excel in it. Most of us are good enough at that sort
of thing ; but we naturally look to the trained scientific mind to keep our
speculation in rational courses. It is because I miss in the President's
address that sure-footed advance along the path of ascertained facts, which
is the needful corrective to the lawless imaginings of the untrained faculty,
that I deplore the absence from it of the grounds upon which, as a front
rank man in Physical Science, Dr. Lodge must have felt justified in sub
mitting such speculations to a strictly experimental society.
EDINBURGH, April, 1902. A. STEVENSON.
Mr. A. Stevenson, in his letter printed above, criticises the speculative
tone of my address, and asks certain rhetorical questions by way of
emphasis. I do not suppose that these questions are asked with the object
of eliciting an answer, but it may be useful to give an explanatory note
in connexion with them.
In the first place, Mr. Stevenson asks whether any animal exists which
understands and can consciously and intelligently control its own vital
processes. In my address I endeavoured to emphasise the fact that this kind
of control is always subconscious—a power of life, but not of intelligence ;
and I likewise emphasised and indicated acceptance of the view familiar
to the S.P.R. that the phenomena with which the society is chiefly concerned
are phenomena connected with the subliminal or unconscious part of
ourselves ; or even, as I thought possible, of some subliminal or unconscious
or secondary state of the ostensible communicators.
Secondly, he asks whether the power to masquerade in a make-believe
body or part of a body is one of the powers of life. To adduce the art of
the actor or mimic might be considered frivolous ; and to adduce the
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JUNE, 1902.
phenomena which have caused some physiologists to invent the term " ecto
plasm," as the simplest way, not of explaining, but of contemplating and
attending to certain abnormal appearances, might be considered credulous ;
and inasmuch as my address shows that I am by no means convinced of the
possibility of any such process as that which, if compelled by evidence, I
expressed myself as willing to contemplate from that point of view, I shall
refrain from entering upon the discussion as if I had definitely advocated
some particular theory.
Thirdly, Mr. Stevenson asks whether I know anybody who can fly to
Mars or to the moons of Jupiter, or in fact take a Cook's tour of the
Universe. He is evidently under the misapprehension that " the immense
range of life and intelligence in the Universe, of which at present," as I said,
" we know nothing," was all conceived by me to be limited to the surface of
planetary bodies. My conception, however, was different from this. From
the fact that we find life luxuriating everywhere, and often in the most
unexpected places, on the earth,—which life comes we know not whence,—I
find it unnecessary dogmatically to limit the possibility of some variety of
life and intelligence to those conditions and circumstances which we have
already explored and grown familiar with.
If I used the phrase discarnate spirits it was with no thought of Mars or
of any other planet in my mind.
On the contrary, any difficulty which I felt and expressed about the
improbability of direct telepathic connexion with unknown persons in India
or New Zealand, as an explanation of clairvoyance or lucidity, would apply
with redoubled force to telepathic communication from hopelessly unknown
individuals in other planets. Since Mr. Stevenson thus misconceived my
meaning, other persons may have done the same, and I am glad of the oppor
tunity of removing at any rate this misapprehension.
OLIVER LODGE.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
It has been for some time the intention of the Council to start a
series of private meetings, for Members and Associates only, as soon as
possible after entering into possession of the Society's new rooms.
We are now able to announce that the first of this series of meetings
will be held at 4 P.M. on Friday, June 20th, in the Small Hall, at
20 Hanover Square, London, W., when a paper by Miss M. BRAMSTON,
entitled "Automatic Romance," will be read.
NOTE.—This meeting is open to Members and Associates of the
Society only. No cards of admission will be issued, but Members and
Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering, as in the case
of General Meetings.
No. CXCL—VOL. X. JULY, 1902.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, - - 257
Meeting of the Council, - - - - 258
General Meeting, 259
Experiments in Thought-Transference, 260
Cases. 263
Private Meeting for Members and Asso
ciates 26T
Special Annual Subscriptions, - - 271
Correspondence :
Professor Hyslop on Mrs. Piper, - 272
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
ADAMS, Miss AMY J. H., 27 New Caveudish St., Cavendish Sq., W.
ARGOUTINSKY-DOLGOROUKOFF, PRINCE WLADIMIR, 11 Millionnaia, St.
Petersburg.
BUTTON, ARTHUR EDWARD, 9 High Street, Doncaster.
Barber, Mrs. Hugh, Grosvenor Crescent Club, Hyde Park Corner, S.W.
Bower, Miss E. A. C., 14 Warwick Square, S.W.
BOZZANO, ERNESTO, Piazza S. Anna, 74, Genoa, Italy.
CHEYNE, C. A., 332 Central West Street, Durban, Natal.
COOPER, E. G., Courts Office, Savanna-la-Mar, Jamaica.
EDWARDS, MRS., 129 Elm Park Mansions, Chelsea, S.W.
HOMAN, CHRISTIAN HORREBOW, 24 Oscarsgade, Christiania, Norway.
HENDERSON, Miss LILIAN, 2 Campden Grove, Kensington, W.
LE MESURIER, MRS., 19 Perrymead Street, Fulham, S.W.
LYTTELTON, HON. MRS. ALFRED, 16 Great College Street, Westminster,
London.
MARYON, Miss EDITH C., Studio 66, Glebe Place, Chelsea, S.W.
MYERS, DUDLEY B., 6 Middleton Street, Calcutta.
MUJIRAY, KENNETH G. V., E.I.E.C., Cooper's Hill, Englefield Green,
Egham, Surrey.
PENN, MRS. WILLIAM, Taverham Hall, Norwich.
Savory, Mrs/Arthur, 31 Bramham Gardens, South Kensington, S.W.
TWINING, MRS., c/o Messrs. Baring Bros. & Co., London, E.C.
WINDER, W. GILGROSS, 12 Grange Road, Sharrow, Sheffield.
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1902.
WOOD, LIONEL, 4 Simonside Terrace, Heaton, Newcastle-ou-Tyne.
WREY, MBS., Tawstock Rectory, Barnstaple, N. Devon.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
ALLEN, B. B., 125 South Spruce Street, Nashville, Penn.
ATWATER, HORACE G., Norfolk, St. Lawrence Co., New York, U.S.A.
BAILEY, WALTER, 51 East Maumee Street, Adrian, Mich.
CRUTCHER, ERNEST, M.D., Great Falls, Montana.
DE PREZ, EUGENE, 1612a Semple Avenue, St. Louis, Mo.
DURBROW, R. L., 200 Sansome Street, San Francisco, Cal.
DELGADO, FDO. CADENAS, Caracas, Venezuela, South America.
HALL, WM. FRANKLIN, 103 Thurston Street, Somerville, Mass., U.S.A.
Ireland, Gordon, 54 Dunster Street, Cambridge, Mass.
KLINE, WILLIAM W., 725 North Fifth Street, Reading, Penn.
MORRIS, MRS. F., 237 Berkeley Street, Boston, Mass.
WILLIS, GRANT B., 1313 Logan Avenue, Canton, Ohio.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met at 20 Hanover Square, W., on May 30th, at 4.30 P.M.
—the Treasurer, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, in the chair. There were
also present :—The Hon. E. Feilding, Miss Alice Johnson, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. F. Podmore, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. H. Sidgwick,
Mr. A. F. Shand, Col. Le M. Taylor, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs.
Verrall, and Mr. N. W. Thomas, Organising Secretary.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as correct
It was reported that the lease of the new Rooms had been duly sealed.
Three new Members and nineteen new Associates were elected. The
election of one new Member and eleven new Associates of the American
Branch was also announced. The names and addresses are given above.
The resignations of one Member and five Associates were accepted.
It was announced that the Hon. E. Feilding, Mrs. Hoare, and Mr. J. M.
Whiting desired to be transferred to the list of Members.
Votes of thanks were passed to Mr. E. T. Bennett, Mr. St. G. Lane
Fox Pitt, and others for presents of books to the Library.
A Committee, consisting of the Editor of the Proceedings and the
House and Finance Committee, was appointed to consider various
matters, chiefly concerned with the cost of production and distribution
of the Society's publications.
It was resolved to hold a small meeting for Members and Associates
only, at 4 P.M. on June 20th.
JULY, 1902.] General Meeting. 259
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 117th General Meeting of the Society was held in the large
room at 20 Hanover Square, W., on Friday, May 30th, at 8.30 P.M.
.—MR. F. PODMORE in the chair.
THE CHAIRMAN explained that it was, unfortunately, impossible for
the author of the paper announced to read it himself. He went on to
say that the paper was a new departure on the part of the Society,
which had hitherto mainly investigated civilized peoples. He thought
the Society was to be congratulated on this new line of inquiry.
MR. N. W. THOMAS read a paper by MR. W. W. SKEAT entitled
" Malay Spiritualism," of which, as it will appear in full in the Proceed
ings, only a brief rfaumA is here given. After describing various super
normal powers claimed by Malay magicians, the paper detailed four
classes of ceremonies, the first two of which might be regarded as
motor automatisms; the third consisted of so-called "sendings," or, as
the Malays call them, "pointings": and the fourth were rites intended
to produce " possession."
In the first class of ceremonies Mr. Skeat described in complete
.detail the dancing Palm-blossom and the dancing Fish-trap, and then
proceeded to point out that the object of ceremonies of this class did
not lie on the surface; whereas the ceremonies of the second class,
including the divining lemon, the divining rod, and similar rites, had
an object which was apparent even to the untrained observer.
Under the third head Mr. Skeat described the Malay beliefs with
regard to the Polong and other familiar spirits.
In the fourth class he described how a magician, during his period of
" possession," by rotating his head rapidly and at the same time
shaking his entire body (especially the shoulders and thighs), produced
a strikingly realistic imitation of an epileptic fit. The paper then went
on to discuss interpretations, more especially of the ceremonies of the
first class, and argued that we have here to do with rites of productive,
or, as it may be termed, economic, magic,—the object of which is to
increase the supply of food.
THE CHAIRMAN remarked that among the beliefs described by Mr.
Skeat we found many parallels to modern European beliefs, and
especially to spiritualistic beliefs and practices. It was a remarkable
thing that the cup and ring ceremony described by Mr. Skeat was
exactly paralleled in the early days of spiritualism by a practice in
which a ring held in the same way struck the hour against the side of
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1902.
a bowl. He had also heard from spiftt mediums of a body closely
resembling the Polong. Mr. Podmore then invited questions.
MR. CANDLER asked what was meant by a vampire, whether any
further details could be given about the vampire heads bought by Mr.
Skeat, and what was their subsequent history.
MR. THOMAS briefly explained what was meant by a vampire, and
stated that so far as he knew the skulls did not manifest any super
normal powers.
MR. Fox PITT inquired whether Mr. Thomas thought that the
Malays thoroughly believed in all these superstitions. Mr. Thomas
said he thought they certainly did, and he gave details of a Welsh
belief in an object resembling the Polong, remarking that the belief of
the village where the object was said to be found was most unquestion
able.
THE HON. EVERARD FEILDING said he had visited the Malay penin
sula, and had there met Mr. Skeat. He was quite certain that the
belief of the Malays in their superstitions was sufficient to induce them
to put themselves to considerable inconvenience, and in a case which
came under his own observation a Malay fasted for several days at a
place supposed to be inhabited by the spirit of a snake, with the idea of
gaining invulnerability and superhuman strength, and was found in a
very exhausted condition. He went on to give an illustration of the
Malay beliefs as to the causes of disease. Mr. Skeat had personal
knowledge of a case in which a man, who was suffering from violent
headache and other symptoms and was believed to be dying, had been
cured by a pretence to extract from his head seven large "praying''
mantises. The performance was regarded by the natives as in no way
extraordinary, and the patient, who was certainly very nearly dying of
starvation (through refusing to eat on account of his hallucinations), at
once began to get better and recovered.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
Our readers may remember a case of collective crystal vision, appar
ently involving thought-transference, printed in the Journal for Novem
ber, 1901, p. 134. One of the percipients, Miss Grieve, who contributed
the account, tried further experiments, but could then only continue
them for a short time, and has not, so far, been able to resume them.
We therefore print her account without further delay, in the hope
that it may encourage some of our own members to similar efforts.
It includes, as will be seen, a spontaneous veridical vision of the results
JULY, 1902.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 261
.of an examination held at the Leasowes, Halesowen, a physical training
College for women, at which Miss Grieve is a student. She writes :—
THE LEASOWES, HALESOWEN, WORCESTERSHIRE, Dec. 15th, 1901.
You ask me about the experiments in thought-transference. I have done
very little—and only began on Nov. 15th. Miss Hitchfield [a mistress at the
College] said she would send me a thought from 10 to 10.10 p.m. that night.
So I sat alone in my study and she lay in her bed and thought. I kept my
mind a blank, as far as possible, merely noting the thoughts as they
passed through, and not encouraging any particularly. After, perhaps,
about 5 minutes a lovely blue light seemed to fill the room, clearing to
silver whiteness, and a certain lady whom we both knew appeared, saying,
" God is spirit, not a spirit," and that those who are drowned have lived their
time and are not just snatched away. The thought really was—beautiful
clear moonlight, a lake, and all the deep black shadows round it—so
it was not very successful.
Next night I thought to Miss Hitchfield—both in our beds at opposite
ends of the house. I thought of my father shooting with dogs in the
woods at home, and Miss Hitchfield got it perfectly. Then, Nov. 28th,
Miss Goad and I went to Miss Hitchfield's study about 6 p.m. and
Miss H. thought first for 10 minutes. After about 7 minutes I saw
a bridge over a canal like Venice, and yet no part of Venice that I
knew, and up on the right a huge castle. Miss Goad got nothing. The
thought was : Miss H. herself on a bridge in Stockholm looking up
at the castle on the right, and behind a lovely sunset. Next I thought
of tobogganning at home when my sister had an accident. Miss H.
got the scenery exactly, first the house, then the long steeply sloping
lawn, then the carriage drive, white paling and burn at the bottom of
another slope—but she did not get the sledges. Lastly, Miss Goad
thought, and in half a minute I had the whole scene correctly. A
singularly steep cliff, with a narrow path leading to and going half-way
down it. Below a rough sea and Miss Goad bathing in it with a dark
collie dog. That was her thought exactly, though she said she tried
to keep her dog out of it. Miss H. did not get it.
Then lastly on Dec. 1st. On Nov. 26th we had an Anatomy examination.
The papers were corrected and the results known to Miss Hitchfield (who had
corrected them) alone on Dec. 1st. They were to be put up next day at 12.
That night (Dec. 1st) lying in bed, thinking of nothing very particular, I
suddenly seemed to see a sheet of paper and, in Miss H.'s writing, the list of
names, marks, and places. I did not bother to get up and write them down
then, but did so at 6 a.m. first thing when I got [down] on Dec. 2nd,
getting Miss Goad to sign it. There were 3 names at the top with
maximum marks—50—and you can imagine the excitement all the morning
when I told them, and they had to wait to prove it till the list was
pinned up at mid-day. It was quite right in every detail. Miss H. said
jshe was not conscious of thinking of the results at the time I saw
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1902.
them, though she had thought a good deal about them before, as it was
not at all the list she expected.
B. H. GRIEVE.
We asked Miss Grieve to let us see the original notes of her experi
ments and an exact copy of the actual examination list ; and also for a
corroboratory statement from Miss Hitchfield. In reply Miss Grieve
kindly sent us a book of rough pencil notes, signed by Miss Hitchfield,
together with a letter stating the latter's willingness to sign the notes
and to have her name mentioned in confirmation of the experiments.
The notes were as follows :
1. Blue light. Mrs. W. explaining that God is spirit, not a spirit.
Also that those who are drowned have lived out their time—are ready for
the next state and not snapped off, as is commonly supposed. Nov. 15th,
1901.
Miss Hitchfield thought of the lake in moonlight, with deep shadows
and white lights and boat on it. (And the Creator of all.—E. H.)
2. I thought (Nov. 16th) Charlie shooting with dogs in the woods, and
she got it.
3. Nov. 28th. In Miss H.'s room ; Miss Goad and I. (a) First Miss H.
thought for 10 minutes. I saw, after about 7 minutes of blankness—a bridge
over a canal, like Venice, and yet not Venice that I knew, and a castle
up on the right hand side. The thought was : Miss H. stood on a bridge
over a canal in Stockholm and watched the sunset and the castle on her
right hand side.
(6) I thought of tobogganning at home on our lawn when Kitty ran into a
yew bush and cut her temple. Miss H. saw a large house, very, very
white, with a sloping lawn, a road at the bottom and a fence, a steep bank
and then a burn. Quite correct, but she did not get the toboggan.
(c) Miss Goad thought, and Miss H. saw a church-yard and Miss Coad
coming up a narrow lane with a dog. I saw a huge high cliff with a narrow
path winding down to it, and half way down the cliff. Below, the sea and
Miss Coad bathing with her dog—a big dark collie.
She thought of the winding path, as above, and did just think of bath
ing there with the dog, but tried to put that out of her mind, and really
concentrated on the scenery.
Dec. 1st. In bed distinctly saw the list of Vein and Lymphatic Exam,
results which Miss Hitchfield had finished that day, but did not put
up till Dec. 2nd. Not only the names, but marks appear, thus :
C., W., H., 50 ; H., 48 ; G., 46 ; A., H., A.
The full surnames were given, but we print the initials only. A note
is added in Miss Hitchfield's handwriting as follows :—
Quite correct.
(Signed) E. HITCHFIELD,
21.12.01. Assistant Mistress, A.P.T. College, Halesowen.
JULY, 1902.] Experiments in Thought-Transference. 263
In reply to further questions as to exactly when the visionary exam
ination list was written down and whether it was shown to Miss
Hitchfield before the actual one was put up, Miss Grieve wrote :
Jan. 26th, 1902.
I did write the account of the exam, early the next morning, because
my book was not up in my bedroom and I could not be bothered to
get up and go downstairs for it. But it was written well before break
fast, and the results were not known, or put up, till 12 that day, and I
showed the account to Miss Hitchfield.
In a letter dated February 7th, 1902, Miss Grieve sent us a com
plete copy, in Miss Hitchfield's handwriting, of the actual examination
list,—" except (Miss Grieve writes,) that the list she actually put up
had not ' D. M. absent ' on it, nor did I see that ; that she added when
reading out the list at the end of term."
The list was as follows (the full names were given, but we print
initials only) :
SENIOR ANATOMY EXAM.—VEINS AND LYMPHATICS.
Maximum, 50.
1. H. H., ) 5. B. G., - - - 46
M. W., V - - 50 6. D. A., - - - 41
C.C., ) 7. B.H., --- 40
4. E. H., - - - 48 8. E. A., - - - 35
D. M., absent.
Nov. Z6th, 1901. E. H.
CASES.
L. 1129. Dream.
The following letter was addressed to Mr. Piddington. We are
asked not to print the writer's name and address :
Dear Sir, Oct. 6th, 1901.
On reading your letter to the Spectator of Oct. 5th, I thought you
might possibly be interested in a coincidence which took place at the
end of August last. I am attached to a certain young lady. At the time
I refer to I was staying near Peterboro' and the lady in question was
at her home, a seaside town in Yorkshire. One very close and thundery
night I found some difficulty in getting to sleep. When finally I fell
asleep, or rather dozed, the face of Miss D. rose up before me, and to my
surprise one side of her face was very much swollen and she looked very
unhappy. I sat up in bed and spoke to her, only to find that I had been
dreaming. Again I fell asleep and dreamt that I was walking along a street,
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1902.
when I heard a cry above me, and looking up saw Miss D.'s face at a window
from which smoke and flames were issuing. I rushed upstairs, only to see
her face floating in the smoke, very much swollen. I tried to grasp her, and
woke up with a cry. Somehow the dream depressed me, and next day in
writing to Miss D. I told her the whole thing, much as I have told you.
Imagine my surprise a day after, when I heard from her that on the night
in question she had gone out to see a house on fire—Mrs. K.'s seaside
residence ; had contracted a chill, and gone to bed with her face enormously
swollen up, and had suffered severe toothache all night. Our letters on the
subject will confirm dates, etc. . . . H. B.
Mr. H. B. is an undergraduate of College, Cambridge. He
was asked to call on Mrs. Verrall and give her further particulars, and
he did so on October 16th, 1901. Mrs. Verrall reported as follows:
5 SELWYN GARDENS, CAMBRIDGE, Oct. 16th, 1901.
I have just seen Mr. H. B., and have no doubt at all that the case is genuine.
At the same time the evidence is not quite so complete as I had hoped from
his letter, but these are the facts as given me by him : On a certain Sunday
in August (subsequently ascertained to be the 25th) H. B. dreamt, as he told
Mr. Piddington, that he saw M iss D. with a swollen face, and later on the
same night, that he saw her at a window from which smoke and fire were
coming. On Monday he wrote to Miss D. to ask if she had had a toothache,
but on second thoughts decided that it would make him feel foolish if nothing
had occurred, and so tore up the letter. On a later day in the week he was
writing to her about other things, and then mentioned his vivid dream about
the swollen face (this part of the business evidently impressed him much
more than the fire). But before he sent this letter he received one from her
mentioning that she had been suffering from a severe toothache and swollen
face since Sunday night. This letter I have seen ; it is dated from Filey,
on " Wednesday " (obviously August 28th), and begins by saying that she is
sorry not to have written before, but has been " seedy ever since Sunday.
I think I must have got a chill ; anyhow, I had raging toothache from
Sunday night till " the day before, when she had the tooth out with gas.
The letter went on to give a graphic description, with a sketch, of her
appearance during the time that her face was swollen.
On the receipt of this letter, H. B. was so much astonished to find that his
dream about the swollen face was true that he added a postscript to his
letter (which had not yet gone) to say that he had seen her with a swollen
face at a window from which smoke was coming, and to ask if that part of
the dream was also true.
Her letter in answer to that I have also seen. It is dated from Filey on
August 31st, 1901, and I copy the important part:—"I was awfully
interested in your dream ; it is the queerest thing I have heard of for ages.
The funny part of it is that I got the cold which made my toothache so bad
by going out on Sunday evening, hearing that there was a fire on the
JULY, 1902.] Oases. 265
Orescent. It was Mrs. K.'s house ; one of the bedrooms got ou fire. It was
nothing much, and was put out before the Fire Brigade arrived. . . . Auntie
M. first noticed smoke coming out of the window." The writer goes on to
say (and this seems to me very interesting) " M. gave me a sleeping powder
on Sunday night, so I slept heavily, in spite of the pain." She also says that
she thought about him a good deal on Monday night when she had seen
.what a sight she was, but not on Sunday.
Of course it is unfortunate, evidentially, that nothing was posted from
him to her till after her letter mentioning the swollen face. At the same
time I think the two letters of hers which I have seen establish the truth of
his statement that he mentioned the fire to her before hearing of it from her.
His whole account of the matter impressed me as frank and accurate; he
showed me the whole of the letters, which were in their envelopes, so that
the postmarks confirmed the contents of the letters as to dates.
He does not think that the lady will have kept his letters, nor that it
.would be of any use to write to her for corroboration.
He tells me that he has never had any similar experience before ; he
.dreams constantly, but he dwelt emphatically on the very vivid nature
of the earlier part of this dream. The impression was so strong that he sat
up and spoke to the lady before he realised that he was dreaming. He
has several times guessed the thoughts, after an interval of silence, both of
this 'lady and of one of his three sisters ; he has had no success with his
.other sisters, nor has he ever had any impression unless he and the sister
.(or Miss D.) were in the same room. Since this episode he dreamt that
Miss D. was angry with him, and encouraged by the August experience, he
wrote to her to ask if it were true. She replied that it was not, but that
on the same night she had dreamt that he was angry with her.
M. DE G. VBKRALL.
G. 269. Apparition.
The following account of a " haunted house " in a London suburb
.was sent to Mr. Podmore. We are requested not to print the names
of the witnesses or the address of the house, which is used as a boys'
school. Miss W., the daughter of the headmaster, writes :—
February 21st, 1902.
It was in July, 1894, that I saw the figure. I was then about 14. I was
getting ready for school at nine o'clock in the morning, and was about to walk
through the box-room when I saw, as I thought, my brother coming through it
towards me. He had remained in bed that morning, not being well, and I
thought he must have dressed and be coming down after all. I spoke to him
when I was still several yards from him, asking what was the matter, as I
thought he looked very miserable, and as if he had been crying. Without
answering, the figure turned off through a door leading to a bedroom. I
followed, still thinking it was my brother, and saw no one in the room. There
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1902.
is another door in this room by which my brother could have got back to his-
room, so I went there and found him still in bed. He told me he had not left
his room. I had not then been told anything about the house being haunted.
When I went downstairs I told my parents what I had seen. I have never
since seen anything of the kind in the house. The figure looked about my
brother's height, and he was then about 13. It had dark clothes and hair,
and looked very pale. As far as I remember, it wore knickerbockers.
In March, 1901, my grandfather being very ill, I was at his house one
evening, and was standing talking to an aunt in a sitting room below his
bedroom. My aunt had her eyes fixed on some work she was doing. I
suddenly thought I saw some one standing near me, and, half turning round,
thought my grandfather was standing looking at me. A second after I saw
there was nothing there, but it startled me, as I saw my grandfather so
plainly, fully dressed, and I even noticed a gold watch chain which he always
wore. I said nothing to my aunt, as I knew she would be nervous. A short
time after, my grandfather died. N. W.
Mr. Podmore writes :
March 7th, 1902.
[The house] is an old 17th century house ; had been a school years ago,
before took it. Legend about boy being confined in a dark cupboard
and starved, but no authentic details. Vague stories of previous haunt, but
no confirmation to be obtained. I heard Miss N. W. describe her experience
and saw the place,—a kind of inner lobby leading off an angle of the stairs,
half passage and half box-room,—where the figure appeared to walk across.
The following account is from one of Mr. W.'s servants :—
One afternoon in March, 1898, I went upstairs about six o'clock. On
opening the door of one of the bedrooms I saw, as I thought, a boy standing
by the bed, in light clothing. Thinking it was the boy who slept in that
room, changing his clothes, I drew back and closed the door. Hearing
nothing, however, I looked in again, and thought I saw a figure pass from
the bedside to the cupboard door in the room. On going into the room to-
make certain, I found the cupboard door shut and fastened and no one in,
the room. I had heard the story about the house being haunted, but,
though a little startled, did not till afterwards connect it with what I had
seen. I have never since seen anything of the kind. M. A.
Miss L., a dressmaker, who worked in the house, once saw the figure
of a boy there. She gave Mr. Podmore verbally an account of her
experience, which he wrote down and she afterwards signed, as follows :
January 13th, 1902.
It was one day in August last (1901), after tea, about 5.30 p.m., a very
bright, sunny day, I had just reached the angle of the back stairs between
the first and second floors when I saw a figure dart out from the passage to
JULY, 1902.] Cases. 267
my left hand and leap across the stairs, just in front of me, and run up to
the top of the flight. The figure seemed to be that of a fairly tall boy, of
about 14, in gray trousers, black jacket, black shoes. His hair was dark.
He seemed to turn away his face from me, so that I could not see it. I
followed the figure immediately—he was only a few feet in front of me—but
it had vanished. I searched the upper part of the house, but could find
no one.
Some people had told me, a few years before, that the house was supposed
to be haunted ; and I said then that it was most likely rats. I had never
heard that the ghost of a boy was supposed to be seen in the house.
I have never at any other time seen a ghostly figure, or anything of the
kind.
(Signed in full) M. L .
Mr. Podmore adds :
Miss L told Mr. W the next day what she had seen. She men
tioned, Mr. W tells me, the gray trousers at the time ; but Mr. W
does not remember to have heard previously the other details of the dress.
There were no boys in the house at the time, the school being closed for the
holidays.
I visited the scene with Miss L , and she showed me where she stood
and where the figure rushed across—not more than 5 or 6 feet in front of her
apparently. There is a small window in the angle of the stairs, and another
large window at the foot of the stairs ; so that on an August afternoon the
place would be well lighted. Miss L , who is absolutely deaf, gave me
the account viva voce, and then signed my written notes.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE first of the series of private meetings for Members and
Associates only was held in the Small Hall, at 20 Hanover Square,
London, W., on Friday, June 20th, at 4 P.M.—the Hon. E. Feilding in
the chair.
THE CHAIRMAN made a few remarks with regard to the scheme of
the new meetings thus inaugurated. He observed that the large
general meetings were useful in bringing a large number of persons
into touch with the work of the Society, but the bulk of the audience
in them was composed of non-subscribers, and the Council had for
some time felt it undesirable that so many of the benefits of the
Society should be offered in this way, without any support being given
to the Society's funds. It was also felt that at the large meetings
a good deal of interesting discussion was probably lost through the
natural shyness of many in the audience, whereas at smaller private
.268 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1902.
meetings interesting discussions might be held and interesting facts
learnt from members who would be loth to speak in public.
These meetings would also give opportunities for papers to be
brought forward which—,either from their containing few new facts or
for some other reason—were not thought suitable for publication in
.our already somewhat overcrowded Proceedings, but which afforded
interesting and instructive matter for discussion. The meetings would
also give members an opportunity of hearing about what work was
going on in the Society and of becoming acquainted with those who
were practically responsible for carrying on the work, and with one
another.
The Chairman went on to say that he had much pleasure in
announcing that the Society had just received the generous gift of
£750 from a donor who wished to remain anonymous.
Miss M. BRAMSTON then read a paper on " Automatic Romance," of
.which the following is a resume :
When the conscious self is passive, and the unconscious self active,
the activity of the unconscious self almost invariably takes the form
of some kind of automatic romance. In this automatic romance is
frequently conveyed to us some kind of information not accessible
to our ordinary mind, and attention is often confined to the informa
tion conveyed, to the neglect of the study of the automatic romance.
Taking a metaphor from Browning's Abt Vogler, we may call the
automatic romance the "illumination lights" of the edifice we raise,
and the supernormally conveyed information the "meteor-moons,"
which descend from some unknown source to crown our work. The
point of this paper is to call special attention to automatic romance.
Automatic romance can be traced elsewhere than in our special
region of psychical research. It plays a great part in the writing of
fiction,—not with all writers, but with many. You invent your puppets
and give them the rails on which they are to run, and then the
automatic romancer within you takes them in hand, chooses their names,
invents undesigned coincidences, and arranges your story so that it
frequently seems as if some one were telling the story to you. In
automatic writing proper, the subconscious romancer chooses the
puppets (which invariably include the writer as the most prominent
figure). In the course of writing it is possible that a new figure,
purporting to be that of some one absent or dead, may come upon the
scene. In this case you may get a " meteor-moon " of verifiable
information before unknown to you, and thenceforward the person so
presented to your consciousness may take his place among the other
JULY, 1902.] Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 269'
puppets of the automatic romance. In this case the writer is inclined
to think that, though once a "meteor-moon," he goes on as an
"illumination light"; but he has often been considered a "meteor-
moon "—a discarnate spirit visitor—throughout. This seems to be
the case with several instances of spirit communication, and would
account for the curious lapses of intelligence in some of the communi
cators, as when Professor Hyslop's father could not remember his
wife's name.
Four automatic romances were then compared,—the first that of the
writer of the paper, which had for its personages the writer, and a
deceased boy-friend as guide and instructor. In this the writer
reluctantly came to the conclusion that there was no reason to believe
that the soi-disant person was in reality present. The second was that
of Stainton Moses, in which " Imperator" and "Rector" took the place
of Stainton Moses' guides and instructors. The third was that of Mdlle.
Smith, of Geneva, and her guide, " Leopold." The fourth was that of
Mrs. Piper, instructed first by "Phinuit" and then by "George
Pelham," and subsequently by an "Imperator"and a "Rector," supposed
to be the same as the guides of whom she had read in Stainton Moses'
Spirit Teachings, but who, the writer argued from their characteristics,
were entirely distinct personalities,—the original " Imperator " and
"Rector" being the product of Stainton Moses' automatic romance, the
later ones of that of Mrs. Piper.
The writer then went on to suggest that even where a deceased
person seemed to be present, we should remember that the medium
seems to have the power of reading not only the facts connected with
him from the mind of the sitters, but also their imaginations, and that
the faculty of "trace," apparently possessed by many mediums, might
enable them to discern the past history of a material object brought in
contact with them without the presence of the discarnate spirit to whom
it had belonged in life. The conclusion left on the mind of the writer
was practically that expressed in Dr. Van Eeden's paper in the last
number of Proceedings.
At the conclusion of the paper tea was served, after which there was
a discussion.
MR. A. F. SHAND said he thought it very desirable that attempts
should be made to bring the results of psychical research and of psy
chology into line with one another. The psychologist, while of
course familiar with subconscious impressions of many kinds, did
not as a rule admit the existence of anything like a coherent and
intelligent subconscious or subliminal personality, except in rare
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1902.
abnormal cases. It was important to test the hypothesis that such
a personality existed normally in all of us.
MR. FEILDING recounted a case of the reproduction through auto
matic writing of sensory impressions too faint to be consciously
perceived, which he thought had some bearing on Mr. Shand's
question. Whilst travelling in America in a private car with a
party, amongst whom was a young lady who could write automatically
with a planchette, he asked this lady to go into one end of the car,
which was divided off as a smoking-room, opening by a glass door into
the corridor. She was here surrounded by the rest of the party, who
were asked to talk and make as much noise as they possibly could, and
not to pay any attention to Mr. Feilding. He then went to the other
end of the car and read aloud a passage out of a book in an ordinary
tone of voice. When he had finished he went to the young lady and
asked her to reproduce in automatic writing what he had read. She
did not reproduce the whole accurately, but she wrote a good many
words which were in the passage, and which were very uncommon,
showing clearly that though she was not conscious of having heard
anything he had said, many of the sounds had reached her subliminal
consciousness.
MR. SWEENEY said that he thought it extremely important that the
Society should make experiments to show that subconsciousness existed
and was active in automatic writing.
MR. STEPHENSON suggested that fiction writers might be interviewed
on the question of how far their writing was done automatically or
semi-automatically. He thought that many authors probably wrote
much from sub-conscious memory.
COLONEL TAYLOR observed that the different evidence we had
showed that no two people are in the same state when they receive
various impressions of phenomena, and that it was impossible to
lay down rules as to what is normal and what abnormal. He did not
think any impression which our senses received could be called
abnormal.
The discussion, which was lengthy and animated, was continued by
Miss Bramston, Mrs. Home, Mr. Adolphe Smith, Mr. H. R. Hogg,
Mr. Fox Pitt, and others.
JULY, 1902.] Annual Subscriptions and Donations. 271
SPECIAL ANNUAL SUBSCRIPTIONS AND DONATIONS
TOWARDS THE FUNDS OF THE SOCIETY.
{deceived in 1901.) Subscriptions. Donation..
Mr. W. VV. Baggally, - - - - £2 2 0 —
Mr. E. Barclay, — £1. 1 0
Lady Butt, ' — 500
Rev. M. H. Close, 500
Mr. W. B. Fotheringham, ... — 220
Miss A. C. Freeman, - — 500
Mr. Lewis J. Fry, 110
Mr. R. Hannah, ----- 550
Miss J. A. Hastie, 500
Dr. J. S. Hooker, — 110
Mrs. Matthews, — 500
Mrs. F. W. H. Myers, 20 0 0 —
Mr. E. T. Nisbet, — 330
His Excellency J. O'Neill de Tyrone, - 10 0 0
Mr. M. Petrovo-Solovovo, - - - — 500
Mr. J. G. Piddington, 20 0 0 —
Mr. F. Podmore, 220
Mrs. Reynolds, — 10 0 0
Rev. E. H. Rogers, - ... — 110
Mr. Chester A. Snow, - - - - — 20 0 0
Sir H. Stanley, — 500
Sir A. K. Stephenson, - - - - — 550
Lieut. -Colonel G. L. LeM. Taylor, - 10 0 0
Mrs. Tennant, 10 0 0
Mr. E. J. Thomson, .... 500
Mrs. Verrall, ------ — 10 0 0
Mr. J. J. S. Whitaker, - - - - — 220
Colonel S. D. Williams, - - - - - 10 10 0
Totals, £50 10 0 £136 5 0
(Received up to June 18th, 1902.)
Mr. W. W. Baggally, - 220 —
Mr. R. Hannah, 550 —
Mr. G. P. Harding, .... 220 —
Mr. R. M. Laing, — 220
Mr. .1. G. Piddington, 20 0 0 —
Mr. F. C. S. Schiller, - - - - — 10 0 0
Mrs. H. Sidgwick, 20 0 0 —
Sir A. K. Stephenson, - 220 —
Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, - 330 —
Mrs. Verrall, 500
Totals, £54 14 0 £17 2 0
H. ARTHCB SMITH (Hon. Treasurer).
NOTE.—We have great pleasure in announcing that since the above
list was printed, an additional gift of £750 has been received from an
anonymous donor, to whom our best thanks are due.
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [JULY, 1902.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[The Editor ix not responsible for opinion* expressed by Correspondents.]
PROFESSOR HYSLOP ON MRS. PIPER.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
May 18th, 1902.
The reference of your correspondent, Mr. Murray, to the paper by Mrs.
Sidgwick (Proceedings, Part XXXVI.) reminds one that a non-acceptance of
Dr. Hodgson's theory of spirit possession does not involve necessarily the
abandonment of all idea of transcendental knowledge. There is an alterna
tive hypothesis—the one put forward by Mrs. Sidgwick in the paper referred
to—a hypothesis which, whatever we may think of the evidence in its
favour, is at all events not vulnerable by the profane shaft of Mr. Murray.
It is, briefly, if I understand it aright : Telepathy from the sitter, and
indirectly, through his subliminal consciousness, from other persons, mostly
friends of his, both living and dead, exploited for the purposes of dramatic
personation by the secondary personality of the medium.
What has become of this hypothesis ? Professor Hyslop apparently
ignores it altogether.
If there is one thing that is manifest from the Piper case, it is surely that
results are dependent largely upon the sitter, though not necessarily upon
his conscious thoughts. Some sitters, with the best intentions, get na
results, or very poor ones ; others are more or less uniformly successful.
" G.P.," as Mr. Andrew Lang says, "was strongest with his most intimate
friends." Can any oue read through Professor Hyslop's report and not be
struck by the remarkable falling off in success at those sittings where he
himself was not present in person, but was represented by Dr. Hodgson, to-
whom the Professor's deceased relatives were strangers ? As Mr. Lang says,
telepathy a trois is " a great deal to grant," but then Mrs. Piper herself is a
great deal, and we cannot get away from Mrs. Piper.
Telepathy from the dead, fortunately, does not rest exclusively upon the
Piper case. There is always Frederic Myers and his residuum of messages
conveying facts known only to deceased persons (Proceedings, Vol. VI.r
p. 314). Even Mr. Lang, who finds no such messages in Dr. Hodgson's
reports of Mrs. Piper, was not unimpressed, apparently, by Mr. Myers
(Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 609).
That the protest of Mr. Murray is justified more or less as against Professor
Hyslop can hardly be doubtful, if one may say so. In psychical research
surely, as elsewhere, a full consideration of the internal character of a
revelation cannot be excluded from any adequate estimate of its evidences.
For the plain man, probably, the effect of the learned Professor's 300 pages
of close reasoning will always be dissipated by five minutes' indiscreet
garrulousness on the part of " Imperator " and his friends.
B. BRBWSTKR.
No. CXCIL—VOL. X. OCT., 1902.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, - - 273
Meeting of the Council, - 274
Case, 274
Temporary Reminiscence of a Long-
Forgotten Languageduring delirium, 279
Correepondence—
Dr. Hodgson's Report on his
Sittings with Mrs. Thompson, 283
Private Meeting for Members and
Associates, 288
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Baker, Mrs. Duff, 4 Chesterfield Street, Mayfair, W.
ANDERS, Miss F. A. M., B.A., 52 Regent Road, Leicester.
ANESAKI, MASAHAR, 32 Anson Road, London, N.W.
BLATHWAYT, WILLIAM, Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
Bradbury, B., 9 Stanley Place, Compton Avenue, Leeds.
CASEY, THE HON. J. J., C.M.G., &c., Ibrickawe, Acland Street, St.
Kilda, Melbourne, Australia.
Clavering, Miss A. M. V., Callaly, Sunningdale, Berks.
Cooper, W. E., Hume Towers, Bournemouth.
Davidson, J. M., 76 Portland Place, London, W.
GILMOUR, R. W., St. Luke's Hospital, Old Street, B.C.
Grenfell, Mrs., 62 Holywell, Oxford.
HOARE, F. H., 1 Seymour Street, Portman Square,
LIBRARIAN, Theosophical Society, 28 Albemarle Street, W.
MADOCKS, MAJOR H. J., 32 Eaton Place, S.W.
PEMBERTON, Miss HILDA M., 66 Glebe Place, Chelsea, S.W.
WINGFIELD, H. E., M.A., M.D., B.C., 25 St. Swithun Street, Winchester.
WHITE, Miss, 70 West Street, Brighton.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BELL, CLARK, Medico-Legal Journal, 39 Broadway, New York.
BROWN, MRS. ELIZA J., Healdsburg, California.
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1902.
PARSONS, HERBERT, Hull's Cove, Maine.
POMEROY, MRS. JEANIE B., Bewford, N.Y.
PURINGTON, W. A., Riverside, California.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met at 20 Hanover Square, W., on July 21st, 1902, at
3 P.M., Sir Oliver Lodge, President, in the chair. There were also
present :—Mr. W. W. Baggally, Miss Alice Johnson, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. P. Podmore, Mrs. Sidgwick, and Mr. N. W. Thomas,
Organising Secretary.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Six new Members and eleven new Associates were elected. The
election of five new Associates of the American Branch was also
announced. The names and addresses are given above.
The death of Mrs. Shield, an Honorary Associate, was announced.
The report of the Special Committee on financial questions was
presented and adopted.
Various matters of business were discussed, and arrangements were
made for meetings of the Society in the first half of the ensuing
session, which will be announced later.
CASE.
G. 270. Dream.
Mr. Petrovo-Solovovo sends us the following case in which authentic
information, presumably unknown to the dreamer and purporting to
come from his deceased brother, was given in a dream.
The first account of the case appeared in a Russian newspaper, the
translation of which; furnished by Mr. Solovovo, and enclosed in a
letter from him dated' December 1st [14th], 1901, is as follows :
Extract from the Peterburgskaia Gazeta of Nov. 12th [25th], 1901.
An Errand from the Other World.—The apparitions of the dead, clairvoy
ance, enigmatic prophetic dreams, and other facts from the mysterious
region of so-called mediumistic phenomena, have always excited general
interest, and will always form the subject of animated discussion and
gossip ; and there always are and will be sceptics who do not believe in such
cases, and wish to give them this or that " simple " explanation. This
unbelief is especially supported by the circumstance that the cases narrated
OCT., 1902.] Case. 275
generally take place somewhere far away in another town, with some
unknown "x's" and "y's."
The case we shall relate took place here in Petersburg, and has just
occurred in the night of November 4th-5th. But let us begin in due order.
In the summer of the current year Mr. Sharoeff, an engineer and technical
editor of the journal, The Electrician, ordered Alexander Semenoff, a
peasant of the province of Tver, district of Novotorjok, and servant
[artehchik] at the journal's office, to get the volumes of the " Proceedings"
of the First Congress of Electricians, which took place, as is known, in
December, 1899, and gave him a receipt for 10 roubles, No. 153, signed by the
Treasurer of the Congress. From [the appearance of] this receipt it was
impossible to understand, without an external explanation, that it entitled
one to receive the books in question,1 for it was a mere receipt for the
payment of a "member's subscription" for taking part in the meetings of
the late First Congress of Electricians, and contained no indication whatever
of the address at which the " Proceedings " were edited ; [besides, they began
to be edited] when the Congress was already over.
The servant forgot to fulfil the errand, and M. Sharoeff forgot to remind
him of it, as there was no more need of the books.
On September 30th [October 13th] of this year the servant, Alexander
Semenoff, left on leave of absence for the country and died there, unex
pectedly, on October 3rd [16th], his place being taken by his brother Ilya,
whom the late artelschik, in consequence of his unexpected death, naturally
could not hnve initiated in the affairs of the office—still less could have told
anything about the unfulfilled errand.
It must be observed that the late artelschik had been taken, as they say,
" from the plough," taught, and set on foot by the chief editor of the
journal, received 30 roubles wages [about 3 pounds] a month, and in conse
quence prized much his situation, and was punctual and careful in the affairs
of the office.2
On the evening of November 4th [17th] the new servant came back home
and went to bed ; after 11 o'clock he was already in bed and began to doze.
He distinctly heard how the clock struck twelve. Some more time passed,
and then he suddenly sees his late brother, quite as if alive, approaching
him, as always neatly dressed, in a black morning coat.
Having appeared, the deceased spoke to his brother as follows :
" Ilyusha, I have come to tell you that, before dying, I forgot to fulfil one
of master's errands. Go and search in my chest of drawers, among the
papers, for a receipt, No. 153, in M. Sharoeff's name, from the Congress of
Electricians. Go with this receipt to house No. 134, Catherine Canal. The
offices of the journal Electricity are there. Show this receipt, and they will
give you the volume of the ' Proceedings of the Congress.' When you have
got them, bring them to master at once. By all means fulfil my errand,
because I am much disturbed about my having forgotten to fulfil it then.
1 With regard to this, see further on.—M. P.-S.
2 This was specially stated to me by M. Doviakovsky.—M. P.-S.
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1902.
Be sure to search well, Ilyusha, perhaps master wants those books. This
tortures me much." L
After these words the apparition vanished. The new servant slept badly
the rest of the night, and, having awakened in the morning, began to search
for the receipt at once. There being in the chest of drawers of his late
brother many papers of all kinds—bills, receipts, letters—he could not find
at once what he wanted : but the idea of the necessity of fulfilling his late
brother's errand pursued him unceasingly, and at last, after three days, when
perusing a parcel of small papers, he found the receipt he wanted, No. 153.
Gladdened by this finding, the artelschik at once ran to the address given
by his late brother, did actually receive, to his greatest amazement, the
above-mentioned "Proceedings of the Congress of Electricians," and brought
them to M. Sharoeff, who had long since forgotten to think about these
books. . . . SOME ONE.
Mr. Petrovo-Solovovo writes :
I saw the artelschik, Ilya Semenoff, for the first time on Nov. 16/29, and
he impressed me very favourably. In conversation with me he confirmed
the fact of his late brother having appeared to him in a dream and
" [looking] as always," i.e. " as alive." He did not believe in dreams before.
I also understood him—as I see on looking at the short account of our
meeting I wrote on the same day, but not in I. S.'s presence—to say that his
brother did in fact give him the No. of the receipt, and that, on awakening
after his dream, he spoke about it at first to M. Doviakovsky, the chief
editor of the Electrician, and then to M. Sharoeff.
On the evening of Nov. 19th [December 2nd] I called again at the offices of
the same paper, when I made the acquaintance of both M. Doviakovsky and
M. Sharoeff. The following is the translation of an account of our meeting,
embodying the notes written on the spot. I wrote immediately after returning
home.
Note on interview with M. Sharoeff and Ilya Semenoff in the offices of
the journal, The Electrician, on Nov. 19, 1901.
From questions I put to Ilya Semenoff it became clear thnt :
I. S. did not see the dream on November 4th [17th], but about Nov. 1st
[14th] or in the middle of October.
The No. {of the receipt) was not given (in the dream).
The " Proceedings " (of the Congress) were called " diaries."
The address of thejournal, " Electricity," was unknown (to him), was given in
the dream, and (he was told) to ask Colonel Smiznoff (the editor).
I. S. began to search (for the receipt) after a few days, (and) did not find
it at once.
He signed at my wish the following statement :
" I certify that the narrative, with the corrections, is true."
ILYA SEMENOFF.
lrThe last sentences, beginning with "By all means fulfil," etc., are distinctly
apocryphal, as stated to me by Ilya Semenoff.—M. P.-S.
OCT., 1902.] Case. 277
M. Sharoeff signed the following statement of his opinion on the same
subject :
"[M. Sharoeff] is somewhat astonished that nothing was said to him
immediately after the dream, in spite of the fact that I. S. saw him several
times in the office : 1 he confirms this fact in its main details ; he believes in
his (I. S.'s) honesty, having no reason not to believe [him]. On the eve of
the day when he got the ' Proceedings ' [M. Sharoeff] saw in a dream the
artelschik, A(lexander) S(emenoff), who, having presented himself before
him, handed him a parcel with proofs of the paper, The Electrician, and
apologised for being late in bringing them. After coming into the office
[M. Sharoeff] received the ' Proceedings ' of the Congress.
"[M. Sharoeff] sees a certain possibility of a natural explanation in the
circumstance that A(lexander) S(emenoff) had fallen ill in St. Petersburg,
and had had time during three or four days to initiate his brother in the
affairs of the office. (Signed) " SHAROEFF."
[M. Doviakovsky: the chief editor] heard about this case at the same
time. (. , . He seemed profoundly impressed by the case in question ; he
was present as well as several other gentlemen during my conversation with
M. Sharoeff and Ilya Semenoff. Apparently it was his account of the case
which got into the Peterburgskaia Gazeta in a somewhat exaggerated form.) 2
[M.] Doviakovsky and [M.] Sharoeff deny absolutely that Ilya Semenoff
could have known (the address of the offices of Electricity) before the illness
of Alexander Semenoff. There is (it seems) no address given on the covers
of the journal Electricity, but the name of the editor is there.
M. PETROVO-SOLOVOVO.
With regard to the last circumstance it must be mentioned, however, that
Ilya Semenoff had been in St. Petersburg for some time before entering his
present situation with M. Doviakovsky and M. Sharoeff, so that it is
impossible to prove that the address of Electricity could not have been
known to him.
On Nov. 21 [December 4], 1901, M. Sharoeff wrote to me as follows :
" Sir,—I comply with your request with pleasure.3 On Monday, Novem
ber 19th, I said that the indecision of the artelschik when presenting the
receipt in the Electricity office—a fact certified by [M.] Schweder, technical
engineer (secretary of Electricity), in a personal interview with him—speaks
in Semenoff's favour. Because, if the latter had been sent by some one to
fetch the books, he could not have spoken in the Electricity office as follows :
' Please say if I can receive books from you with this receipt,' but would
have simply said this : ' Please give me the books in exchange of this
receipt.' . . . [Signed] SHAROEFF."
1 M. Doviakovsky did not seem to think this particularly strange.—M. P.-S.
2 He said to me that, being much impressed by the case, he narrated it in the presence
of many persons, one of whom sent it to the Peterburgskaia Gazeta. —M. P. -S.
3 1 had written to M. Sharoeff, asking him about an incident he had mentioned during
my conversation with him, which I had not noted down at the time.
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1902.
It must be said, however, that an examination of the receipt in question,
which M. Sharoeff kindly sent on Nov. 30 [December 13th] for my
inspection reveals the fact, which M. Sharoeff says he is astonished he had
forgotten, that it bears the following note at the bottom :
" For receiving a personal ticket of admission to the meetings of the
Congress, and also for receiving the printed 'Proceedings of the Congress,'
the presentation of a receipt in payment of a member's subscription is
necessary." The receipt itself, for payment of 10 roubles, is delivered in
M. Sharoeff's name.
With regard to another circumstance to which I had called M. Sharoeff's
attention,—viz., my impression that during my first interview with Ilya
Semenoff he stated to me that he had spoken about the dream both to M.
Sharoeff and M. Doviakovsky before its fulfilment,—M. Sharoeff says he
thinks Semenoff is somewhat confused about the matter, "whether from
weakness of memory or forgetfulness, I cannot judge."
On the whole, though my investigation of the sensational account
published by the Peterburgskaia Gazeta has deprived it of some of its striking
features (No. of receipt ; alleged absence of mention of "Proceedings" of the
Congress of Electricians on the receipt), enough has been left to make the
case appear very striking still, and this in spite of a further deduction to be
possibly made with regard to the address and the editor's name, asserted to
have been given in the " message," owing to the impossibility of excluding
" latent memory " in this particular case. M. PETROVO-SOLOVOVO.
38 SERGIEVSKAIA,
ST. PETERSBURG, December 1/14, 1901.
We wrote to Mr. Solovovo to enquire whether M. Sharoeff's dream
had occurred before or after he received the books from Ilya Semenoff,
and asking also for an explicit statement from the latter that his brother
had not told him before his death that the books had been wanted.
Mr. Solovovo replied :
ST. PETERSBURG, Dec. 22, 1901 [Jamiary 4, 1902].
I send you some more evidence re the Semenoff case, which I hope will
satisfy you.
Some apparent discrepancies in statements he made to me at various times,
(as to his having related his dream before its fulfilment to M. Sharoeff and
M. Doviakovsky, then to M. D. alone ; as to the number of the receipt being
mentioned in the dream1), make me think that we cannot by any means
consider him a good witness ; but neither M. S. nor M. D. doubting his
veracity, these circumstances would not, I think, justify us in refusing to
attach any value to the case. M. PETROVO-SOLOVOVO.
P.S.—The proofs M. Sharoeff saw in his dream Alexander Semenoff hand
him were not identical with the " Proceedings " of the Congress of Electricians
brought by Ilya Semenoff the next day.
1 See account of my first interview with him ; but here I may have misunderstood him.
OCT., 1902.] Case. 279
The following statement was enclosed in Mr. Solovovo's letter :
(Translation of a Statement signed by Ilya. Semenof.)
I certify that before my dream, in which my late brother appeared to me,
I knew nothing about the existence of a receipt for receiving the Proceedings
of the Congress of Electricians and about its whereabouts.
(Signed) ILYA SEMENOFF.
Extract from M. SharoefPs letter to me (M. P.-S.), dated St. Petersburg,
December 21st, 1901 [January 3rd, 1902] :
"... The death of the artelschik Alexander was very much unexpected,
both to himself and to all those who knew him, so that neither Alexander
nor any one else in the office did suppose that Ilya would be the deceased
artelschitfs successor, the former being looked upon as merely temporarily
fulfilling these duties.
" As for myself personally, I beg you to inform Miss Johnson that before
receiving the " Proceedings " I did not relate my dream to anybody, because I
did not attach any importance to it ; it was only when I got the Proceed
ings of the Congress that I paid attention to my dream. . . . SHAROBFF."
Ilya Sernenoff, whom I have just seen, now says that it was to M. Dovia-
kovsky only, not to M. Sharoeff, that he related his dream before its fulfil
ment ; but that M. Doviakovsky did not pay any attention to what he said.
M. P.-S.
TEMPORARY REMINISCENCE OF A LONG-FORGOTTEN
LANGUAGE DURING DELIRIUM.
THE following case presents some interesting analogies to many cases
of secondary and alternating personalities that have appeared in our
Proceedings and Journal. The report is quoted (omitting some details
of purely medical interest) from The Lancet of June 14th, 1902, where
it appeared under the title " Temporary Reminiscence of a Long-
Forgotten Language during the delirium of Broncho-Pneumonia," by
Henry Freeborn, M.B. Edin., with remarks by C. A. Mercier, M.B.,
M.R.C.P. Lond., F.R.C.S.Eng.
The patient was a woman, aged 70 years. She felt poorly on the evening
of March 6th, 1902, and kept her bed on the 7th. I saw her on the 8th and
found her complaining of headache and pain in the shoulders, back, and
limbs. Her temperature was 102° F., and her pulse was 100, regular, and
strong. Examination of the lungs revealed slight bronchial catarrh (the
patient was very liable to slight attacks of bronchitis and had to keep her
bed for a few days at a time once or twice during every winter). Her con
dition on the 9th and 10th was about the same ; there were less headache
and pain generally, the temperature remaining between 101° and 102°. On
the llth the patient had passed a bad night, the respirations were quickened,
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1902.
the cough was troublesome, the pulse was 120, and the temperature was
105°. Examination of the lungs revealed increased bronchitis all over. . . .
The general condition of the patient remained about the same for two days,
the temperature being between 105° and 106°, the pulse at this time being about
120 and strong. On the 13th the temperature fell rapidly to 98°, went up
again for a short time in the afternoon to 101°, and fell again in the evening
to 97°. On this day she coughed up a little rusty sputum, the only time she
did so. At 9 P.M. I arrived to find her apparently dying. The pulse was
quite uncountable, weak, and flickering. The nurse said that she began to
change an hour before and was getting rapidly worse. Three minims of
liquor strychniee were given subcutaneously. In 10 minutes the pulse could
be counted and in 20 minutes it was fairly strong at 110. It was found
necessary to repeat this dose every fourth hour and to give brandy and
carbonate of ammonia freely until the 16th, on which day she began to
improve and her pulse remained strong and slow without the help of the
strychnine. . . .
The chief point of interest in this case lies in the delirium. From the
night of March 7th until the evening of the 13th (when the temperature fell
suddenly) she was sometimes wandering while awake and continually talking
in her sleep, but when spoken to would be perfectly sensible and so long as
she was engaged with one of the attendants or doctor would answer
questions, etc. When the temperature fell on the 13th she became quite
delirious and remained so until the 16th, when she gradually returned to
reason. On the night of the 13th and on the 14th she was found to be
speaking in a language unknown to those about her. It sounded as if she
was repeating some poetry sometimes or carrying on a conversation at
others. She repeated the same poem time after time. This language was
found to be Hindustani. On the 14th, in the evening, the Hindustani began
to be mixed with English and she spoke to, and of, friends and relations of
her girlhood. On the 15th the Hindustani had disappeared altogether and
she was talking to, and of, friends of a later date in English, French, and
German. The patient was born in India, which country she left at the age
of three years and landed in England, after five months' voyage, before she
was four years old. Up to the time she landed she had been under the care
of Indian servants and spoke no English at all, her only language being
Hindustani. On her coming to England the ayah was sent back and she
then began to learn English, and from that time had never spoken
Hindustani. She apparently, on the 13th, went back in her delirium to her
very earliest days, when she spoke again the first language she ever heard.
The poem was found to be something which the ayahs are in the habit of
repeating to their children and the conversations were apparently with the
native servants, one being recognised as a request that she might be taken to
the bazaar to buy sweets.
Through the whole delirium there could be recognised a sequence. As
time went on the friends she spoke of were of later date and she took events
in their proper order. She apparently began at the beginning of her life
OCT., 1902.] Reminiscence of a Long-Forgotten Language. 281
and went through it until on March ] 6th she had reached the time when she
was married and had her children growing up boy and girl. It is curious
that after a lapse of 66 years, during which time she had not spoken
Hindustani, this language of her early childhood should be recalled in
delirium. The patient now speaks English, French, and German (one as
fluently as the other), but although she knows a few Hindustani words she
is quite unable to speak the language or to put one sentence together. She
says that she has no recollection (nor had she any before her illness) of ever
having been able to speak Hindustani. The evidence that this language
really was Hindustani is that she does not know, uor has she ever known,
any other language except those mentioned in this paper. A lady who has
lived much of her life in India and who speaks the language recognised
the poem as one commonly in use amongst the ayahs and also translated
some of the conversations which the patient carried on with her imaginary
visitors.
Remarks by Dr. MERCIER.—This case is a most striking, one may say a most
dramatic, instance of a state of things, which, in less impressive degree, is by
no means uncommon and which, though abnormal, is not irregular. Events
of the kind have been recorded before, but no case so complete, so extra
ordinarily perfect, and so well authenticated, lias yet been published as far
as I know. The classical instance with which all such occurrences are com
pared and classed is that of the illiterate maidservant recorded by Coleridge
in his " Table Talk " who, while suffering from the delirium of fever, recited
for hours in Greek and Hebrew. Many ye.trs before she had been in the
service of a learned pastor who had been in the habit of reading these
classics aloud in her hearing. She was totally ignorant of the languages in
question and could not voluntarily reproduce a word of them. Yet in her
delirium they boiled up to the surface, and boiled over.
It is to be noted that it was not the forgotten language alone whose
memory was so strangely revived in this old lady's delirium. Her whole
personality was transported back to her early years, and she lived over
again the life of her childhood. She spoke of, and to, friends and relatives
of her girlhood ; she asked that she might be taken to the bazaar to buy
sweets. Now this is the rule in certain cases of senile insanity. Perhaps I
may be allowed to quote from my book on "Psychology, Normal and
Morbid," to illustrate what is meant : " Along with this defect in the
formation of structural memories"—and although Dr. Freeborn does not
mention the fact, I have no doubt that this process was completely defective
in the case that he has described, so that when the old lady recovered she
remembered nothing of what occurred during this period of her illness1—
" there frequently goes an excess of those memories that remain from long
past experience. Not only are these memories preserved, but they are
recalled with exaggerated frequency and vividness. The memories of boy
hood, for instance, are not only retained, but they are reproduced with
excessive frequency and with a vividness which in middle life was unattain-
1 Dr. Freeborn says : " This is so."
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1902.
able. We often witness in the dementia of old age that not only are the
experiences of the day forgotten, not only are the experiences of youth
remembered, but the memories of youthful experiences thrust themselves
forward with such vividness and persistence that they become the dominant
feature in consciousness, and the old man literally lives his youth over
again. To such a degree does this vivid reappearance of memories attain
that it sometimes invades the province of perception, and the veteran
addresses his grandchildren by the names of schoolfellows of his own who
have long been dead, and with whom he has had no dealings since his boy
hood. It seems as if structural memories were laid down in the nervous
system in strata, the memory of each successive experience overlying the
memories of previous experiences ; and as if, in senile loss of memory, the
removal of the upper layers allowed of an over-activity of those that remain,
on the principle so familiar to neurologists under the name of 'loss of
control.' "
That this old lady was not insane in the ordinary use of the term, but was
suffering from the delirium of bodily illness, goes to corroborate my
favourite doctrine that not only are delirium and insanity the same thing,
but that any weakening illness, especially if suddenly weakening, may be,
and I should go further and say must be, attended by weakening of mind.
If the patient had remained in the same mental condition after her recovery
from the bodily illness no one would question that that condition might be
rightly characterised by the term insanity. Yet the improvement of the
mental condition pari passu with the recovery of the bodily illness indicates
the dependence of the one upon the other.
The sequence of events in the course of her recovery was most remarkable.
She gradually passed through the stages of her life, beginning in infancy
and taking them, as Dr. Freeborn says, in their proper order, until, upon
her complete recovery, she brought events down to their present date.
Nothing so dramatically complete has ever come under my own observation,
though I have seen cases in which the period of life lived through again has
varied. It is a very common occurrence for persons who have acquired, so
completely as to think in it alone, a language which is not that of their child
hood, to lose that language in illness or in other stress and to return to the
language earliest acquired, even when this had been almost or quite forgotten.
I have had under my care during the last year an old lady whose native
language is English, but who had subsequently acquired, in the order given,
a perfect colloquial mastery of French and Italian and a competent know
ledge of German. She is now 76 years of age and finds that she has lost her
German, and in a severe attack of bronchitis she lost both French and
Italian and was left with English alone. Her health is feeble and her
mastery of Italian fluctuates with it. The great interest of the present case
is that the language should have been discontinued so very early in life, that
the patient had not only forgotten it but had forgotten that she could ever
speak it. But, as Coleridge's case shows, the previous ability to speak a
language is not necessary for its reproduction, and it is unlikely that the
OCT., 1902.] Reminiscence of a Long-Forgotten Language. 283
child herself had sung the verses. She probably reproduced them from
hearing, as the servant girl reproduced the Greek and Hebrew. The
gradual advance in the period of the patient's reminiscences, as her health
improved, goes to corroborate, for what it is worth, my hypothesis of the
stratification of memories. I do not put it forward as a very illuminating
hypothesis, but in this very obscure region even a glimmer of light is
grateful.
Several cases of alternating personalities have been recorded in
which the subject reverts to or recovers the memories of earlier
periods of life. One of the most remarkable of these was the case
of Louis Vive (see Proceedings, Vol. IV., p. 496), who manifested
several different personalities corresponding to different periods of
life, which variations could also be artificially reproduced in him by
certain methods of suggestion. Another case of alternating person
alities corresponding to different ages was that of Mollie Fancher
(see Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 396). More remarkable still, and still
more difficult to explain by Dr. Mercier's hypothesis of the stratification
of memories, described above, is the case of " Miss Beauchamp "—
Dr. Morton Prince's subject (see Proceedings, Vol. XV., p. 466)—in
whom the principal secondary personality not only recollects the
events of extremely early childhood (such as lying in her cradle and
learning to walk), but also has a more complete and continuous memory
of all the subsequent life than the primary personality has.
CORRESPONDENCE.
[ The Editor is not responsible for opinions expressed by Correspondents. ]
DR. HODGSON'S REPORT ON HIS SITTINGS WITH MRS. THOMPSON.
To the Editor of the
JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
I.
Auy. 2nd, 1902.
If I may so far trespass upon your space, I should like to make one or two
observations upon the "Reports of Sittings " with Mrs. Thompson, published
in the last number of the Proceedings. Now, judging from his published
"Report," it appears that Dr. Hodgson regards Mrs. Thompson as little
more than a conscious impostor ; that she was never in any trance state
whatever, and that what knowledge she did not gain surreptitiously was
not, in fact, knowledge at all, but merely lucky guesses made by the
medium, some of which were recognised by the sitter, as being especially
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1902.
appropriate to him (or her). Now I do not wish to champion Mrs.
Thompson's cause, but on reading over these Reports of Sittings, and on
comparing them with those of Mrs. Piper, in Proceedings, Vols. VI. and VIII.,
I was certainly struck by the great similarity of detail between these two
series of trance phenomena ; and whereas Dr. Hodgson is alone in regarding
Mrs. Thompson as fraudulent, it must be remembered that numerous earlier
investigators regarded Mrs. Piper in exactly the same light ; whereas
Dr. Hodgson—and the majority of psychical researchers—now claim that
Mrs. Piper is certainly not consciously imposing upon the sitter. The line
is hard to draw : is Dr. Hodgson's Report to be taken as final, or does the
combined testimony of the other sitters warrant us in assuming that
telepathy —to go no further—is present in this case ? On this point, I take
it, various investigators will form their own conclusions :—the confirmed
spiritist will entirely ignore his Report, and take every word uttered by
" Nelly " to be solemn truth ; the sceptic, on the other hand, will receive
this verdict as final, and wonder where human credulity will cease, for
continuing to "believe in" Mrs. Thompson after the completely negative
report of so trained an expert as Dr. Hodgson !
Yet, though the testimony of the latter be negative, there are, on the
other hand, statements made which certainly seem to indicate that some
supernormal faculty is at work ; if not in Dr. Hodgson's series of sittings, at
least in those of Dr. van Eeden, Mrs. Verrall, and "Mr. Wilson." The
testimony in some of these cases is quite strong—in a few case*, remarkably
so—and it seems to me that if Mrs. Thompson be proved fraudulent
throughout, it would certainly cast a very lurid light upon the Piper case,
and for the three following reasons :—
(i.) The great similarity between the two series of trance phenomena.
The similarity which exists between the trance state of Mrs. Piper and
that of Mrs. Thompson is more than merely superficial. A comparative
study of the two series of reports displays a striking resemblance between
them, which may be seen in many little details. The action and the speech
of the "controls" ; their methods of obtaining clues and giving information ;
in short, the great similarity between " Nelly " and, e.g., Phinuit is borne out
in many striking details, which, however, would take too much time and
space to recount here. They should be studied in the originals to be
appreciated. If, it may be asked, we assume that one is genuine and the
other fraudulent, how are we to distinguish between these " controls," where
the resemblance is so great?
Of course the honesty of the medium comes in here : that, in fact, is the
whole problem. Dr. Hodgson's dictum would have carried great weight,
consequently this series of sittings was an almost entire failure ! This only
bears out Mr. Lang's remark (Journal, Vol. IX., p. 228), where he says,—" It
does appear to me that, as a rule, she [Mrs. Piper] fails most with the kind
of people whose affirmative evidence would be most valuable." And it must
be remembered (as before stated), that whereas Dr. Hodgson is quite alone
in thinking Mrs. Thompson fraudulent, every one who studied her in England
OCT. ,1902.] Correspondence. 285
is entirely satisfied as to her honesty. Moreover, Mrs. Piper presented, at
one time, almost identical " suspicious circumstances " with those described
in the Thompson case ; and several thoroughly competent observers declared
not only that Mrs. Piper failed to convince them of any supernormal faculty
whatever, but that, if they were to judge from their own sittings, " the
whole thing,"—to quote the words of one of their number, Dr. S. Weir
Mitchell—" was a fraud and a very stupid one." '
In spite of this adverse testimony, however, Mrs. Piper continued to be
investigated by the Society's members,— with the result, as we now know,
that she has succeeded in convincing the majority of the S.P.R. members
of her honesty, and [has brought] some of them, at least, to a belief in
Spiritism. In view of this, then, it seems to me that we should at least
await the result of future investigations before forming any opinion as to
the source of these trance utterances in the case of Mrs. Thompson.
(ii.) The possibility of almost unlimited undetected fraud.
But besides these similarities between the Piper and the Thompson
phenomena, there is a still more ominous note struck ; a greater suspicion
would be cast upon the Piper case by the proof of fraud on Mrs. Thompson's
part than by any other method conceivable. In the first place, on the
theory of fraud, it would have to be supposed that Mrs. Thompson
completely baffled the closest scrutiny of all the English researchers,—
Messrs. Myers, " Wilson," Piddington, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mrs. Verrall, Miss
Johnson, Dr. van Eeden, etc., — and that, consequently, the ingenious
speculations of Dr. van Eeden and the laborious investigations of Mrs.
Verrall are all so much wasted energy ; merely speculations begun and
theories advanced to account for a series of phenomena which hi reality
had no existence at all ! If such were the case, then the researchers would
indeed place themselves in rather a ridiculous position ; and, in the eyes of
the world in general, it would surely be no very great difficulty to suppose
Dr. Hodgson similarly bamboozled in the case of Mrs. Piper. If, on the
1 See also the following opinions of careful observers :—
Professor G. H. Darwin said—"1 remain wholly unconvinced either of any
remarkable powers or of thought-transference." (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 627.)
Professor Macalister declared that . . . "if you ask my private opinion, it is
that the whole thing is an imposture and a poor one." (Vol. VI., p. 606.)
Mr. Shattock writes—"So that I cannot but think that the statements made are
only shrewd guesses, made on a carefully planned system." (Vol. VI., p. 639.)
Mr. J. F. Brown, again, writes that "he is fully convinced that Mrs. Piper's
dealings with him have been false and fraudulent throughout." (Vol. VIII., p. 85.)
Professor Pierce declares that ..." I never for one instant felt myself to
be speaking with any one but Mrs. Piper. . . ." (Vol. XIII. , pp. 461-62.)
Professor Baldwin stated that ..." even as to the fact of her being in a trance
at all, my impression is not strong, despite the fact that I came fully expecting
to be convinced on that point." (Vol. XIII., p. 534.) See also the opinions of
Dr. Hopkins (Vol. VIII., p. 68) ; Dr. Wadsworth (Vol. VIII., p. 84) ; Professor
Trowbridge (Vol. XIII., p. 526); etc.
286 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1902.
other hand, we admit—on the strength of the outside evidence—that Mrs.
Thompson is genuine, and that Dr. Hodgson had an unfortunately bad
aeries of sittings, everything at once falls into its proper place. Further, in
reading over Dr. Hodgson's Report, I could not help feeling—although the
Hodgson method of dealing with these phenomena appeals to my common-
sense, and although I have that indefinable, subjective confidence in Dr.
Hodgson's judgment which one person thoroughly conversant with
conjuring devices feels in another—I cannot help feeling, I say, that Dr.
Hodgson investigated this case with a (perfectly unconscious) bias against
its genuine character.
(iii.) The finest " test " evidence would be rendered absolutely worthless.
It seems to me also that Mrs. Verrall's exceedingly dry but thoroughly
scientific report and her treatment of the results obtained show pretty
conclusively, —either that Mrs. Thompson obtained her information sur
reptitiously (in which case the Piper records will certainly be enveloped in a
cloud of the blackest doubt),—or that some supernormal phenomena were
manifested, occasionally, at least. These alternatives are brought into a
sharp collision by the Report of Dr. van Eeden ; where chance seems clearly
excluded. In several cases, should fraud be proved to exist, I must confess
that I, for one, should lose a very large percentage of my faith in the
genuineness of the Piper phenomena. Here is one case by way of
example :—Dr. van Eeden said (Proceedings, Part XLIV., pp. 77-78): "I got
information about objects whose origin was known only to myself. I
brought a lock of hair of a man who had lived and died at Utrecht, and the
hair was immediately connected with that name, and on subsequent
occasions referred to as the 'Utrecht hair.' I brought a piece of clothing
that had belonged to a young man who had committed suicide. Nobody in
the world knew that I had kept it, nor that I had taken it to England with
me for this purpose, and yet T got an exact description of the young man and
the manner of his suicide, and even his Christian name was given. For me
this excluded all fraud or coincidence."
Some of us, I am sure, anxiously await Dr. Hodgson's explanation of this
incident. If it be proved that Mrs. Thompson obtained her information in
this case by normal means, it would certainly largely destroy the value of
the evidence for supernormal phenomena in the case of Mrs. Piper.
I do not wish to be misunderstood ; I do not want this letter to be
misinterpreted. Its object is not to declare that Mrs. Piper must necessarily
be a fraud if Mrs. Thompson is proved to be one ;—that would be simply
absurd. The point I wish to emphasise, however, is this :—that if, after the
careful methods adopted to prevent inquiries, etc., in this case ; if, in spite of
the laborious Report of Mrs. Verrall, and such definite statements as those
quoted above (by Dr. van Eeden) ; if, in spite of all this, Mrs. Thompson is
no more than a clever impostor, and those who drew up the Report her
dupes,—then it would certainly seem that so great a blow would be struck
at the value of the evidence presented in the Piper case, as to almost entirely
destroy the value of that evidence as a proof of any supernormal phenomena
OCT., 1902.] Correspondence. 287
at all. For it might very reasonably be urged that in that case the two
series of phenomena were certainly of the same genus, the difference being
simply one of degree and not of kind. If Mrs. Thompson be a fraud, she has
so completely " taken in " and baffled her investigators that any other similar
reports would be divested of almost all their evidential value,—simply
degenerating into a matter of comparative dexterity between the two
mediums. If, on the other hand, Mrs. Thompson be genuine, it would add
much to the case of Mrs. Piper,—already so fully supported by evidence
tending to discredit the hypothesis of fraud. And so, while Dr. Hodgson's
Report on Mrs. Thompson tends [in one respect] to support and strengthen
the evidence for supernormal phenomena in the Piper case by again bringing
forcibly to the front his extraordinary acuteness in the detection of error
(and thus indirectly strengthening any case in which he has failed to find
it) : it does, on the other hand, most certainly tend to weaken, if not to
destroy, the value of the evidence in the Piper case by showing to what an
extent fraud (granting it to exist in this case) may be carried without
detection. Believing, as I do, on the strength of the evidence presented,
that Mrs. Thompson does present supernormal phenomena, I must apologise
to that lady for the tone in which this letter must (necessarily) be written.
HBREWARD CARRINGTON.
II.
In regard to Dr. Hodgson's sittings, I would point out that it is hardly
satisfactory for him to merely state his belief that Mrs. Thompson " was in
a normal state the whole time " without giving reasons. We all know that
Dr. Hodgson is an authority on Mrs. Piper's trance, but we have not the
same assurance that he is an authority on trance states in general ; and even
if he were, he owes more than an opinion to a person who has given so much
time and work to the Society as Mrs. Thompson has.
It may be desirable to mention that her second states were not, as with
Mrs. Piper, induced by association with a spiritualist medium, but that they
arose spontaneously, and that she was accustomed to pass into them with
facility long before they took on their present form. Those who have had
to do with hypnotism know that a good subject will pass from one state
to another with great rapidity and almost without moving a muscle ; and it
seems to me possible that Dr. Hodgson may have been misled by the ease
and facility of Mrs. Thompson's trance, as compared with Mrs. Piper's,
which at least used to be very laborious and rather painful to witness.
In view of Gurney's experiments as to the lapse of consciousness during
actions suggested in hypnosis and performed during post-hypnotic states,
it appears that there is always, in the case of persons liable to such states,
the possibility that the wish to reach a certain result may act as a self-
suggestion, and that the rest may follow automatically. Hence, where an
experimenter has not excluded the possibility of this, one hardly sees the
use of his offering an opinion as to what may, or may not, have occurred.
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [OCT., 1902.
That Dr. Hodgson's sittings were conducted under loose conditions, not to
say carelessly, is a minor point ; because the most careful and experienced
observers cannot fail occasionally to make mistakes, and mistakes are often
instructive ; but when in working with loose conditions the observer abandons
the line of strict logic in interpreting his results,—that does seem to me a
superfluous error. It is true that Dr. Hodgson does not technically commit
himself to saying that Mrs. Thompson is a fraud,—he just steers clear of
that,—but in face of evidence to show that at times her mental state is not
merely abnormal but supernormal, he nevertheless rules out the explanations
consonant with such states, and which are ex hypothesi possible, and merely
assumes normality,—"sacrificing," as Mr. Lang says, "to common sense,
which wants an explanation, and a normal explanation, and does not care
whether it is verifiable, or even plausible."
I have been struck, when I have been in the States, with the general
tendency to come to rapid conclusions, which is doubtless due to the
intensely practical character of American life. In our own subject I found
most persons to be either pronounced sceptics or equally pronounced
believers ; and we ma* take it, I think, that the atmosphere nf this country
(or still more, Dr. van Eeden says, of Holland) is better suited to the study
of questions which involve the balancing of probabilities and a philosophic
suspense of the judgment. As Faraday has said in a very interesting
lecture: " Occasionally and frequently the exercise of the judgment ought
to end in absolute reservation. It may be very distasteful, and great fatigue
to suspend a conclusion ; but as we are not infallible, so we ought to be
cautious ; and we sh ill eventually find our advantage, for the man who rests
in his position is not so far from the right as he who, proceeding in a wrong
direction, is ever increasing his distance."
E. WESTLAKB.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE next Private Meeting for Members and Associates will be held
at 4 p.m. on Friday, October 17th, in the Hall at 20 Hanover Square,
London, W., when a paper on " Some Recent Experiments in Automatic
Writing " will be read by Mrs. Verrall.
Tea will be served at the meeting.
Note.—This meeting is open to Members and Associates of the
Society only. No cards of admission will be issued, but Members and
Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering, as in the case
of General Meetings.
No. CXCIIL—VOL. X. Nov., 1902.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, - - 290
Meeting of the Council, - 290
Private Meeting for Members and
Associates, 291
Notice of Private Meeting, - - - 295
PAGE
Inquiry into Sentiment with regard to
a Future Life, - 295
The Fire Walk in Mauritius - - - 2%
Case, 298
A Case of Double Misrecognition - - 303
NOTICE OF MEETING
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN THE LARGE ROOM
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On FRIDAY, NOVEMBER \\th, at 4.15 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Human Sentiment with regard to a Future Life,'*
And having special reference to the Statistics
collected by the American Branch,
WILL BE READ BY MR. F. C. S. SCHILLER.
Tea will NOT be provided at the Meeting.
290 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1902.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Berthier, Miss Stella de L., Gledholt, Partlands Path, Ryde, I.W.
Brookes-Smith, Mrs. E., Olrig House, St. Marychurch, Torquay.
DENSHAM, WILLIAM, 40 Grosvenor Road, Gunnersbury, W.
GOOCH, G. P., M.A., 8 Porchester Gate, W.
HOGG, SIR F. R., K.C.I.E., C.S.I., Oriental Club, 20 Hanover Sq., W.
JONES, LADY, Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
LYALL, SIR ALFRED C., G.C.I.E., K.C.B , D.C.L., LL.D., 18 Queen's
Gate, S.W.
LYON, JEREMIAH, J.P., Riddings Court, Caterham Valley, Surrey.
MACDONALD, Miss M. B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman Square, W.
MAIDLOW, W. H., M.D., F.R.C.S., Ilminster, Somerset.
PURGOLD, THOMAS, 108 Princes Road, Liverpool.
RAGGETT, MRS. G. F., 70 Maida Vale, W.
SCHREINER, Miss JULIA, 56 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
SLOLEY, AUBREY L., Savanna la Mar, Jamaica, W.I.
SODEMANN, CARL, 47 Mark Lane, B.C.
ZAGURY, LEON, B.Sc., 12 Emanuel Avenue, Acton, W.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BENSKIN, F. G., 1410 Fulton Street, Canton, Ohio.
BOWEN, Miss ANNA C., 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.Y.
GREEN, R. K., 712 Eailroad Avenue, Spokane, Wash.
HAYES, EEV. C. H., Gen. Theological Seminary, Chelsea Square,
New York City.
MILLER, C. A., 30 Genesee Street, Utica, N.Y.
SHERMAN, F., 3400 Diston Street, Tacony, Philadelphia, Pa.
SLINGERLAND, MRS. ANNA L., Kasson, Minn.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met at 20 Hanover Square, W., on October 17th, 1902,
at 2.30 p.m., Sir Oliver Lodge, President, in the Chair. There were
also present :—Mr. W. W. Baggally, Professor W. F. Barrett, Mr. E.
N. Bennett, Sir W. Crookes, Messrs. J. G. Piddington, F. Podmore,
S. C. Scott, A. F. Shand, Mrs. Sidgwick, Mr. H. A. Smith, Lt.-Col.
Nov., 1902.] Meeting of the Council. 291
Taylor, Dr. C. L. Tuckey, Mrs. Verrall, and Mr. N. W. Thomas,
Organising Secretary. .
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and signed as correct.
Two new Members and fifteen new Associates were elected. The
election of seven new Associates of the American Branch was also
announced. The names and addresses are given above.
The Council heard with regret of the death of two Associates, and
the resignations of one Member and of eight Associates were announced.
Mr. G. Gordon-March and Mr. C. A. Rumsey were, at their request,
transferred from the list of Associates to that of Members.
A vote of thanks to Lt.-Col. Taylor, for a se'ance table which he has
presented to the Society was carried by acclamation.
A General Meeting was fixed for January 30th, 1903, at 8.30 p.m.
Various matters relating to the finances of the Society were discussed
at length, and it was resolved to consider them further at subsequent
Meetings of the Council.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE second of the series of private Meetings for Members and
Associates only was held in the large Hall, at 20 Hanover Square,
London, W., on Friday, October 17th, at 4 p.m. The President, Sir
Oliver Lodge, was in the chair, and the Meeting was largely attended.
THE PRESIDENT said that in his opinion the paper which Mrs.
Verrall was about to read was of considerable value. In most cases
they had to depend for their facts upon strangers, since none of the
most active members in the Society had hitherto developed any power
of their own. But if the more prominent members should begin to
experience remarkable powers in their own person, it would manifestly
be of the first importance.
MRS. VERRALL then read a paper on " Some recent Experiments in
Automatic Writing," of which a brief summary follows :
Mrs. Verrall said she had made several attempts in the course of the
last ten or twelve years to obtain automatic writing, but had met with
no success until early in the year 1901, when, after renewed attempts,
she found herself able to produce fluent, though not wholly intelligible,
Latin sentences. Since that time a considerable amount of writing
had been produced in Latin, Greek, and English. A great part of
the contents of these " messages " consist of adjurations to persevere,
reproaches to the writer for stupidity in interpretation, and exhorta
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1902.
tions to patience; there have been no general ethical discourses nor
any attempt at theological discussion. There is a very clearly marked
desire to produce statements that will be " evidential "—statements,
that is, of facts unknown to the writer herself. The phraseology and
vocabulary of the Latin and Greek present some peculiarities, and
throughout there is a constant play upon words and a use of linguistic
analogies quite foreign to the writer's own habit of mind. Among the
many efforts to obtain verifiable matter there seem to have been some
successes, and Mrs. Verrall related in detail three cases in which events
had apparently been recorded by her hand before their occurrence.
In the first two of the cases the statements of the script were meagre,
but in the third case a considerable number of details was given
including three uncommon proper names, and an event corresponding
in almost every particular occurred two months and a half after the
automatic script had been produced. Mention of the automatic script
had in this case been made to an independent witness at the time of
its occurrence.
At five o'clock there was an adjournment for tea, and before the
discussion on the paper took place, Mrs. Verrall read an account of an
incident which seemed to show a connexion between her automatic
writing and the trance-communications of Mrs. Piper in America.
On January 28th, 1902, an experiment was suggested by Dr. Hodgson
to the trance-personality, and on February 4th, at another sitting, the
trance-personality claimed that the experiment had been successful ;
Mrs. Verrall was not aware that any experiments were being attempted,
but on January 31st, a message in Latin and Greek was automatically
written by her hand which appeared to imply knowledge of the very
distinctive experiment arranged between Dr. Hodgson and Mrs. Piper's
control.
In reply to questions, Mrs. Verrall said that she did not usually write
in the dark. She was perfectly conscious, while writing automatically,
of her surroundings, and she was aware at the moment of writing what
each word was as she put it down, but she had no recollection of the
words when once they had been written, nor any general recollection
of the sense of the sentence as a whole. The writings did not all
purport to come from the same communicator ; indeed, it was im
possible to trace any personality behind the incoherencies and variety
of the statements ; in many cases there seemed to be descriptions of
passing scenes, analogous to the fantastic visions seen in a crystal, but
there were also incidents suggesting telepathic communications with
friends of the writer.
Nov., 1902.] Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 293
PROFESSOR BARRETT said that he considered the paper one of the
most interesting and valuable that had ever been read before the
Society, because it stimulated further work in a very important
direction. Referring to the cases related by Mrs. Verrall, he gave a
few other instances of prevision that had come under his own notice.
They were not so remarkable as Mrs. Verrall's cases, and they could
also be more easily accounted for by chance coincidence or by inference
from knowledge normally or telepathically acquired. But if more
cases like Mrs. VerralPs occurred, which were very difficult to explain
by coincidence or by a heightened power of inference, prevision would
not only have to enter the field as a working hypothesis to explain
such cases, but it would consequently become more legitimate to apply
it also to cases of a less striking character, such as he had quoted.
MRS. HOME said that her own experience of automatic writing
was not unlike Mrs. Verrall's. She got single words at a time, and
not consecutive sentences; and, although she understood, as it was
being written, the meaning of each individual word, she did not grasp
the sense of the sentence formed by the words.
SIR LAWRENCE JONES thought the paper showed the importance
of care in the signing and dating of all cases, and so making them
available for future reference and investigation ; and he especially
urged on crystal-gazers to record even what might seem to them at
the time trivial and unmeaning pictures. Time might reverse the
verdict, and the scene or incident represented in the crystal-vision,
though it might remain trivial, might prove to be not unmeaning.
MR. PODMORE remarked that the messages, which Mrs. Verrall was
inclined to regard as precognitive, were open to more than one inter
pretation. The more oracular their form, the easier it was to discover
a variety of different meanings in them, and the difficulty of regarding
them as mere coincidencies was thereby reduced.
In reply to a protest from DR. A. WALLACE against the use of the
word 'automatic' in connection with Mrs. Verrall's script, MRS. SIDGWICK
pointed out that the word ' automatic ' as used by the Society, was
entirely neutral and non-committal. It connoted only such images
as arise, or such movements as are made without the initiation of the
normal consciousness. In this case, as in others, it implied no expression
of opinion as to the source of the messages.
THE PRESIDENT fully endorsed Mrs. Sidgwick's statement, and
remarked that he found that the Society's use of the word ' hallucination '
was similarly misunderstood. They were often abused for calling
everything a hallucination, but it was a hallucination whatever else
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1902.
it might be ; and so with this writing, it was not under the control
of the ordinary brain consciousness, and was, therefore, in this sense,
automatic, whatever its source might ultimately turn out to be. He
quite agreed with Sir Lawrence Jones how important it was to make
notes of any predictions. He considered they should not only
be noted down, but written on a letter-card and posted to the
Secretary at the Rooms of the Society, and kept by him on a
special file.
The worst of it was that when elaborate precautions were taken
to record a predicted event in an unmistakable manner, the event
had hitherto not come off. Whenever it had come off there had been
found some slight loophole or flaw in connexion with the prediction,
but the flaw had not always been due to lack of detail or to the
possibility of merely accidental correspondence; though in a large
number of cases of prediction noticed in the newspapers that might
be an adequate explanation.
Even a letter-card with postmark upon it is not utterly conclusive
proof of a date, because a previous postmark might be fraudulently
attainable : but a postmark as a supplement to endorsed testimony
that the letter was received by a responsible person was a valuable
corroboration. There were other methods of making even more
absolutely sure than that, and in one case of detailed prediction for
an indefinite date he had himself adopted an elaborate procedure
impossible to elude. Unfortunately in that instance the event pre
dicted had not occurred ; but perhaps it would not always be so.
He considered the Marmontel case a most remarkable one. The
more trivial the incident the better, in many ways and for many
reasons. It would be apparent to anyone who had noticed the dates in
Mrs. Verrall's paper that her writing did not begin until after Mr.
Myers's decease. He felt himself that there was a sort of atmosphere
about these writings as if some extremely intelligent influence was at
work, giving these predictions of events in the oracular way in which
they were given. They were given in a fashion which prevented
anything like purposed fulfilment, or anticipation, or interference due
to previous knowledge of what was going to occur. Mr. Myers had
always held that predictions of events, if only such predictions were
possible, would afford the clearest and most crucial proof of supernormal
power; and would likewise be the most effectual way of definitely
transcending the powers of telepathy, or even of ordinary clairvoyance,
provided the event predicted were of a kind such as could not reasonably
be inferred.
Nov., 1902.] Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 295
He had, that afternoon, mentioned the existence of a soi-disant Myers
control for the first time and this opened a large subject. The time
would come when the communications that purported to come from
Mr. Myers through Mrs. Piper and others must be collated and related
to the Society, but that time had not yet come. He had them filed,
but as yet there was nothing crucial, nothing that would convince
a sceptic—nothing that would convince himself—of the clear identity
and definite personal action of the supposed communicator. The 'sphere
and spear' case, representing an attempt at correspondence between
what was going on in America and at Cambridge, was the kind of
experiment that Mr. Myers had been anxious to make. Mr. Myers
in his lifetime had attempted to get such correspondence in connexion
with America, but these experiments had resulted in failure. Hence the
' sphere and spear ' message, whether in this case regarded as successful
or not, was not unlike the kind of thing that Mr. Myers would have
been likely to attempt.
In conclusion the President said that there were many things the
reader of the paper had not had time to mention, but he understood
that this was only the beginning of the subject, and hoped that Mrs.
Verrall would have further communications to make to the Society.
The meeting was then adjourned.
INQUIRY INTO SENTIMENT WITH REGARD TO
A FUTURE LIFE.
IT is requested that any answers to the Questionnaire issued by the
American Branch (see the Journal for July, 1901), which have been
collected but not yet returned, should be sent to MR. F. C. S. SCHILLER,
Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE next Private Meeting for Members and Associates will be held
at 8.30 p.m. on Monday, December 8th, in the Hall at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., when a paper on " Some Experiments in Hypno
tism " by " Edward Greenwood " (pseudonym) will be read.
Note.—This meeting is open to Members and Associates of the
Society only. No cards of admission will be issued, but Members and
Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering, as in the case
of General Meetings.
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1902.
THE FIRE WALK IN MAURITIUS.
THE following communication refers to a letter from Mr. John Pid-
dington, published in the Journal for June, 1902.
ROYAL HOSPITAL, CHELSEA, S.W., July 23rd, 1902.
I have read with much interest Mr. Piddington's communication about the
fire-walking in Mauritius, and have no doubt that during his long residence
there he has had far better opportunities than I had to study the question.
I should, however, like to point out that when I was present there was no
sign of any nervous or physical collapse on the part of the devotees, and the
priest who crossed first, and was therefore exposed to the greatest heat,
remained standing and watching the others with an air of complete com
posure, and eventually walked slowly away. There are no logs of wood ; the
trench is filled with embers.
I have, since writing my account, received a letter from a Resident
Magistrate in Mauritius who attended the ceremony last January, and
writes as follows :—
" MAURITIUS, January 12th, 1902.
" I write to you by the first mail after the fire-walking ceremony to tell
you what I can about it, but I am sorry to say that I cannot give you any
thing truly scientific, nor, I fear, add anything to what you know already,
as I understand you have actually witnessed it here yourself.
" It was doubtful until the last moment whether any fire-walking would
take place this year on account of the plague, and a notice was posted by the
authorities forbidding it. However on Jan. 2nd I went to the Stanley
estate, near Rose Hill, with some of the police inspectors, and found the fire
burning and almost ready at 4 P.M. I sat in a little hut, curiously decorated
with palmiste flowers and leaves, which adjoined the fire. The fire was com
posed of wood and charcoal, and was so hot when I passed it to get to the
hut that my face was nearly scorched. It was arranged in a heap about 3 ft.
high, and was covered with white ash. It was situated in a trough dug in
the ground about 18 ft. long and about 4 inches deep, and at the far end was
a trough of water. About 4.45 the fire was spread over the trough in as thin
a layer as possible, and when spread it was in the form of a red hot layer of
small pieces of wood and charcoal, each piece resting on the soil. From ten
to 15 minutes then elapsed, during which the redness disappeared, and the
embers became uniformly black. The procession of priest and attendant
clergy (?) then arrived, and proceeded, to the strains of tom-toms and a sort
of clarinet, twice round the trough. They had what I expect is usual, viz. :
curious brass pots of flowers on their heads, a sort of caduceus of Mercury,
and other emblems which I do not doubt have names and meanings which
have been investigated by others. I saw no sacrifice, but I believe there
was one in an adjoining chapel. The excitement of the assembled crowd
Nov., 1902.] The Fire Walk in Mauritius. 297
reached a climax when the priest and his party marched in single file down
the centre of the black ashes, at a slow pace, without any visible sign
of terror or pain. The persons who had promised to walk then followed to
the number of about 12, including men and women carrying children. One
man covered his face with branches of leaves in passing, perhaps to protect
himself from the hot vapour, and upon one face I saw terror more plainly
marked than I think ever before, the eyes " starting out of the head " on
approaching the fire. Not one uttered any cry of pain, nor hesitated in the
performance, nor betrayed any sign of pain. On passing through the " fire"
they entered the water and disappeared in the crowd, but I did not see
any one prostrated on the ground, nor any bandaging or tending of the feet
afterwards. It is said that those who walk undergo a preparation of about
three weeks beforehand, and some say that some sort of dressing is placed
on the feet, but I do not k/iow if it is true.
" Immediately after the last had passed, water from the trough was splashed
on the embers, and hissed and formed into steam. It was a hot day with a
bright sun, but the steam was plainly visible. It seems to be a fact that the
skin of the feet of the Indians is as thick as the sole of a boot, and a friend
tells me that he has seen his servant extract something from his foot by in
serting a piece of broken glass to the depth of about an inch. As they never
wear boots and are scarcely ever lame notwithstanding, I think that this
may account for a good deal, and may explain what, to a newcomer, seems
mysterious. I am told by some that those who walk the fire do not show any
marks on their feet ; on the other hand, one has told me that his man was
never the same afterwards ; but this may have been due to the sort of
religious ecstasy which attends the ceremony.
" I do not think that I can add anything more.
" Both my servants are Hindus, and so took no part. My gardener is
from Madras, but he has become a Roman Catholic ; my cook says that the
gardener would not walk the fire now, because if he did, so he fears, he
would be burnt."
Does not this add plausibility to the idea that the religious esctasy not only
prevents fear, but may actually alter the sensitiveness of the skin, in the
same way that a hypnotised patient can be rendered insensible to pain, or
conversely that blisters can be raised by suggestion.
What is really wanted is the evidence of some medical man who would
examine the devotees both before and after the ceremony.
M. S. SCHWABS.
FIRE CEREMONIES IN SOUTHERN INDIA.
Mr. Andrew Lang has kindly sent us the following cutting from the
Times of Ceylon, October 4th, 1901. The explanation that the feet of
the fire-walkers are protected by being rubbed with the juice of the
aloe is not a new one and no doubt may apply to some cases. In other
cases it has been specifically denied (see e.g. the account of Mr. H. K.
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1902.
Beauchamp, the editor of the Madras Mail, in the Journal for November,
1900, vol. ix. p. 316).
The Madras Mail has the following in its correspondence column :—
SIR,—You finished a leaderette on the 27th with the question : " Who will
explain the mystery of the similar ceremony, with glowing ashes, in Southern
India?" It has evidently been forgotten that I explained this mystery in
the Madras Mail early in 1899. Also in your issue of the 21st February,
1899, I described what I saw for myself, namely, a man passing red-hot
chains through his hands, and picking a rupee out of a vessel full of boiling
oil, without suffering the least damage. There was not the least doubt that
the chains were actually red, and the oil actually boiling. The experiments
were made for me, as I was very sceptical, in broad daylight, by one of my
catechists who had himself been a saniyasi, and he told me he had often
walked over burning ashes without the least injury. All the feats are pre
pared for in the same way, i.e. the hands or feet, as the case may be, are well
rubbed with the juice of the aloe, called by the Tamils sottrukattrdlei. I
felt the man's hands immediately he had passed the red-hot chains through
them from end to end, and found them hot, but not in the least degree burnt.
Walking over red embers with feet whose soles must be about half an inch
thick must be a trifling thing compared with handling red-hot chains. I do
not believe there is the least " mystery " in the matter, or that there is any
jugglery whatever. Scientific investigation ought to be made, because the
fact might be turned to practical use. This is not my line, but I can vouch
for the truth of the facts, if I am entitled to any credence as an observer,
and sign my name as a mark of genuineness. J. A. SHARROCK.
Trichinopoly, September 28th.
CASE.
G 271. DREAM.
Our first information of the following case was through a newspaper
cutting kindly sent to us by Mr. H. P. Gurney, of the Durham College
of Science, Newcastle-on-Tyne, in a letter dated January llth, 1902.
The cutting ran as follows :—
The body of Police-Constable Egleton, who was stationed at New
Lambton, and has been missing since last Saturday afternoon, was found
yesterday afternoon in Brecon Hill Plantation, about two miles from
Fence Houses. Deceased was lying in the deep part of a stream which
runs through the wood. The body was at once taken from the water and
conveyed to deceased's home to await an inquest. James Blunt, the man
who found the body, says that he had a dream that deceased would be
found as stated. He accordingly went there, and proved his dream to be
correct. P.-C. Egleton was forty-five years old, and leaves a widow and
family, one of whom, a grown-up son, holds a responsible position in the
Civil Service. Deceased was a steady and highly esteemed constable. He
Nov., 1902.] Case. 299
had been nearly twenty-five years in the force, and was thinking about
retiring on his pension. He was a native of West Mansley, in Sussex.
In reply to our enquiries, the following letter was received from the
office of the Durham County Constabulary :—
DURHAM COUNTY CONSTABULARY,
DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT'S OFFICE, HOUGHTON-LE-SPRING,
February 16th, 1902.
. . . At the inquest held on the body of Egleton on llth January
last, the witness Blunt stated "that on Wednesday night, 8th January,
he dreamt that he saw the body of Egleton lying at a particular spot
in Houghton Burn that runs through Brecon Hill Wood. He went to
his work next day, and on coming home, and while at dinner, he told his
wife and other members of his family of his dream. After getting his
dinner he set off to the place in Brecon Hill Wood where he dreamt he
had seen the body, and with the aid of a rail he succeeded in raising the
body at the second try. It was lying in about four feet of water at the
spot indicated in his dream." T. SNAITH, Supt.
The rest of the evidence was obtained for us by the kindness of an
Associate of the Society, Mr. W. M. Thornton, B.Sc., of the Durham
College of Science, who took great trouble to investigate the case
thoroughly and interviewed the witnesses. He reported on March
25th, 1902, as follows :—
. . . On the night of Saturday the 4th of January last Police-Constable
Egleton, stationed at New Lambton, Co. Durham, suddenly disappeared.
He was last seen by his sergeant about eleven o'clock. The latter having
entered an inn to see all was right, found, on leaving a minute later,
that Egleton had gone. When he did not return home that night
search parties were sent out, and during the next four days the whole
district was very thoroughly examined, but no trace of him could be
found. Some thirty or forty constables helped in searching. On Thurs
day morning James Blunt, a workman at the coke ovens attached to the
Lambton Colliery, told first his son, then a Mr. Key, and afterwards
several people together that he had dreamt where Egleton was, that he
was drowned in the stream running through a small wood not far from
the village. At midday on Thursday he went alone and found him,
three men who followed him arriving in time to see him try to raise the
body. The police and friends were informed, and the affair greatly stirred
the neighbourhood. I went to see Blunt and those connected with the
dream, and found him in bed, but he evinced the greatest interest, and,
sitting up, told me the case, which I jotted down and he signed. As you
will see, the others to whom he told the dream have also signed state
ments to that effect. I may say that, having had a good deal of
300 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1902
experience with working men, Blunt struck me as absolutely straight
forward, and there was not the slightest sign of self-consciousness in any
of those to whom I spoke. . . . W. M. THORNTON.
The signed statements enclosed by Mr. Thornton, which he had
obtained a few weeks earlier, were as follows :—
5 ENGINE Row, NEW LAMBTON, DURHAM,
February 15th, 1902.
Some time in the middle of the night of the 8th of January, before the
caller came round, I dreamt that I saw the burn running through Brecon
Hill Wood, and in the stream by a stump of a tree. P.-C. Egleton was
lying with his head to the stump, and I saw him in the dream lying in two
feet of water. On waking again and going out at five o'clock, I went to work
at the coke ovens, and about seven o'clock I told my son, George, of the
dream. Mr. Key, who is erecting the ovens, came round about ten, and I
said to him, " Mr. Key, I want to borrow that rake." He said, " 'What
for?" I said, "I know where Egleton is. I saw him in my dream." He
laughed and turned away. When I came back from work at half-past one I
told them in the house. There were my wife, my daughter and her husband
present.
After dinner I went straight away where the dream led me, and getting
to the place I saw in the dream, I took a pole from the bank and tried
in the burn for him. The first two times I touched the bottom, and the
third time I touched him. It was about six feet from where I first tried.
My son-in-law, James Bell, and his brother, Harrison Bell had followed
me with William Brown ; they met on the way. I had raised him twice
before they came, but couldn't get him out. They laughed and said, " It's a
dog you've got," but found it was not, and helped me to lift him out and
carry him to the bank. Then I came away to tell the friends, and they took
him home. JAMES BLUNT.
When my husband came home on the 9th January he told us he had seen
Egleton in a dream, and after dinuer he went and found him.
ELLEN BLUNT.
I was present when my father told us his dream. ANN BELL.
February loth, 1902.
I was present when my father-in-law told us of his dream, and followed
him afterwards about ten minutes later, and found him trying to get the
body out of the stream. JAMES BELL.
My father told me about seven in the morning on the 9th January, as we
were working together, that he would find Egleton that day, for he had seen
him in a dream lying in the burn in the wood.
My father seemed very much upset. He and Egleton were old friends.
He had talked a lot about him, saying he wished he could be found.
GEORGE BLUNT.
Nov., 1902.] Case. 301
The following letter was addressed to Mr. Thornton by Mr. Key,
writing from The Lodge, Barnmoor, Co. Durham, February 18th,
1902 :—
... As regards James Blunt's dream and the finding of Constable
Egleton, he told me on the day he found him when I asked him what he was
hurrying for, that he wanted to get done for he had had a dream, and he
was going straight to the place told him in his dream, and if I would lend him
a long rake shaft he would go and get him out. He finished his work, and
after washing, having his dinner, he got to the place in twelve minutes
after leaving home, put in his rake shaft, and raised the body up just as it
had appeared to him in the dream.
Strange to say, a number of men had been past the same place. I, myself,
saw a man searching within a few yards of where he was found about two-
and-a-half hours before Blunt found him. . . . JOHN T. KEY, C.E.
With regard to the question whether James Blunt could have
known the whereabouts of the body by ordinary means, the following
letter was addressed to Mr. Thornton from the office of the Durham
County Constabulary.
DURHAM COUNTY CONSTABULARY,
DIVISIONAL SUPERINTENDENT'S OFFICE, HOUGHTON-LE-SPRING, R.S.O.,
Mar. 22»rf, 1902.
Sir,—Your letter of the 20th inst. to the Chief Constable has been
forwarded to me for reply. All I can say is that no suspicion whatever
rests on Blunt, as he and Egleton were the best of friends. Blunt was
also one of the search parties on more than one occasion, and had passed
the very spot where the body was found on several occasions. . . .
T. SNAITH, Superintendent.
Mr. Thornton afterwards sent us the following letter and abstract of
the evidence taken at the inquest by the Durham coroner, to whom he
had written to find out if any clue had been obtained as to the where
abouts of the body before James Blunt's dream. It appears that this
was not the case, as far as any one knew.
CROFTONHOLM, DURHAM, March 26th, 1902.
Dear Sir,—In reply to your letter of the 25th inst. I have pleasure in
sending you copy of my notes as to Blunt's dream.
The rest of the evidence given does not touch upon it but if necessary
you can have copy of the rest.—Yours faithfully,
CROFTON MAYNARD, H.M. Coroner.
At NEW LAMBTON,
Re Thomas Egleton deceased. January, 1902.
James Blunt of New Lambton, Coal Miner, Saith, I dreamed on Wednesday
night I saw deceased lying in the Burn below Mr. Gilchrist's, in Brecon
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1902.
Hill Wood. I went to my work, and on coming home I told my Wife that
in my dream I had seen Egleton. I then washed myself and went straight
to the place I dreamed of, and there I found a long pole lying. I picked it
up and put it in the Burn about twice, and the third time it came against
something. I put the pole below, prised him up, and found it was the body
of a man, and assistance came, and he was got out. There was about 4j feet
of water in Stream, and before this a Search had been made all along it. I
saw there was a big mark on the edge as if from a man springing. There
were other print marks of persons concerned in the Search. The Stream is
about 10 feet broad, and it was somewhat deeper than on the day he was
amissing. I couldn't tell whether the big mark on the edge had been his
attempting to jump across the beck—or of some of the Search Party. I last
saw P.-C. Egleton on Xmas Day, and saw nothing about the place where
found to make me think he had deliberately placed himself in the Water.—
JAMES BLUNT.
James Bell of New Lambton, Coal Miner, Saith, on Wednesday just before
Blunt went to Brecon Hill Wood I saw him at New Lambton, and he told
me that in a dream he had seen Egleton lying in the Beck, and about 10
minutes after I followed him down as he had told me the point to go to, and
when I had got there he had the head and shoulders of his body eased out of
the Water. It was 300 yards on the road side of the Wood from the entrance
to the Wood. His clothes were all in order with all on except his Cap. There
was no interference with the body till the Policeman came.—
JAMES BELL.
Taken upon oath, Before me, C. MAYNARD, H.M. Coroner.
A few more details are given in a later letter from Mr. Thornton,
dated April 25th, 1902, as follows :—
. . . With regard to the Egleton case I don't think Blunt actually de
scribed his dream in close detail to any one, and he seemed a little surprised
himself at finding the body so quickly.
As he told it to me the dream shewed him the body lying in some two feet
of water with the head towards an old tree stump. When he actually touched
the body with the pole he took from the wood, he placed it beneath and
raised head and shoulders clear of the water. This seemed as if the head lay
towards the bank, much as he dreamt it.
There was a good deal of water in the stream about that time, and it is
very probable some movement may have taken place between the time of the
dream and the finding of the body.
His own version is that " the spirit came and told me where the body
was." . . . W. M. THORNTON.
The evidence for this case is in many respects unusually strong and
complete, since there can hardly be any doubt that James Blunt
dreamt of the position of the body and told his dream to several
persons before he had any—at least, conscious—knowledge of the
Nov., 1902.] Case. 303
actual facts. Since, however, he had passed by, and even searched
along the bank of the stream, it is impossible completely to exclude
the supposition that his subliminal self may have noticed some marks
from which it inferred where the body was lying, and that these
indications while remaining unnoticed by the supraliminal conscious
ness, led to the dream.
A CASE OF DOUBLE MISRECOGNITION.
About May, 1901, Mrs. Piddington wrote to a friend. Miss Lilian
Allen, of 2A Lower Grosvenor Place, S.W., inviting her to lunch. As
she received no answer for several days, she went to call at Miss
Allen's house. Miss L. Allen was not at home, but her sister, Miss
Gertrude Allen, was. Mrs. Piddington- explained to Miss G. Allen
that she had called to find out if Miss L. Allen was coming to lunch
with her, as she had not written. Miss G. Allen said that her sister
had met Mrs. Piddington in the street and given her a verbal answer.
Mrs. Piddington denied this, and added that she had not seen Miss L.
Allen for some months. Miss L. Allen then came in, and explained
the mystery as follows :
" Some days ago meeting a lady in the street, whom I thought to be Mrs.
Piddington, I stopped her in order to speak to her. This lady aaid she had
written me a note asking me to lunch ; but she did not mention the day or
hour. I accepted the invitation, and we then walked together along the
street for some minutes, and the lady conversed with me about my sister,
and said : ' I've asked you and your sister.' In reply to this remark, I said
that my sister could not go out to lunch. [Miss Gertrude Allen being in
bad health rarely goes out.] The lady looked slightly astonished, but we
parted without further remark, I never doubting that I had been talking to
Mrs. Piddington. On my return home I found a note from Mrs. Piddington
asking me to lunch. As I thought I had just given her a verbal acceptance,
I did not send a written reply. This morning I met this same lady again.
She stopped me and explained that she had mistaken me for some one else,
and I then found out my mistake. She explained that she had written to
ask two sisters to lunch ; and when, after her conversation with me (whom
she had mistaken for one of these two sisters), both sisters (I having refused
on my sister's behalf) turned up, explanations ensued, and she discovered her
mistake."
The above was dictated to Mr. Piddington partly by Miss L. Allen
and partly by Mrs. Piddington on August 1st, 1901, with the exception
of a few alterations and additions made on May 12th, 1902, at Miss
Allen's dictation.
Miss Allen states that her eyesight is normal, and that she now sees
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Nov., 1902.
that there was a slight, but by no means a striking, resemblance
between Mrs. Piddington and the lady whom she mistook for her.
Miss Lilian Allen and Mrs. Piddington were well known to each
other at the time of this incident, but Miss Allen admits that she is
prone to mistaking people by sight. She has not up to the present
time (May, 1902) again seen the strange lady whom she mistook for
Mrs. Piddington. Another coincidence is that the strange lady spoke
to Miss Lilian Allen of 'your sister Mabel,' and that Miss Allen
really has a sister Mabel.
Miss Allen's and Mrs. Piddington's corroborations are appended :
The above account is perfectly accurate.
May 12th, 1902. (Signed) LILIAN ALLEN.
The above account is correct, so far as it concerns me.
(Signed) PAULINE PIDDINGTOX.
The episode is instructive, because, had the mystery never been
solved, as might well have happened, it would have contained all the
elements of what might not unreasonably have been claimed as a case
of veridical hallucination. It might, it is true, be urged that such a
classification would not have been justifiable in view of Miss Allen's
admission that she is given to mistaking one person for another. But
the natural reply to this objection would be that, while due allowance
should be made for Miss Allen's tendency to misrecognition, still it was
more than discounted by the fact that the hallucinatory Mrs.
Piddington not only recognized Miss Allen, but also gave to her a
message which the real Mrs. Piddington had already, though not to
Miss Allen's knowledge, sent her by post.
When Mr. Podmore not infrequently has sought to explain by
misrecognition or coincidence phenomena which less sceptical observers
prefer to attribute to thought-transference or to more debatable
causes, his argument has not made as strong an appeal as it might
have done had a greater number of cases of a similar type to the one in
question been put on record. Not, indeed, that Mr. Podmore, so far as
we know, has ever ventured to stretch hypothetically the long arm of
coincidence so far as we find it stretched in the real instance before us.
It is quite likely that just as strange coincidences are happening
frequently, but they do not get recorded, because, as soon as they are
seen to be explained in an ordinary way, they lose their interest.
But they ought to be recorded, and we shall be glad to receive
accounts of recent and well-authenticated coincidences of the kind,
which, while explicable by normal causes, simulate, so to speak,
supernormal phenomena.
No. CXCIV.-VoL. X. DECEMBER, 1902.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, - - 306
Meeting of the Council, - 306
PAGE
General Meeting, 307
Case, 308
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society,
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY,
WILL BE HELD IN THE HALL
AT 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On MONDA Y, DECEMBER %tk, at 8.30 p.m.
WHEN A PSEUDONYMOUS PAPER ON
" Some Recent Hypnotic Experiments,"
dealing particularly with the Subjective Sensations and with
the Limits to the Suggestibility of the Hypnotic Subject,
will be read.
N.B.—No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting, Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1902.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
CARNAHAN, EDWARD HOWARD, Meaford, Ontario, Canada.
Crookes, Lady, 7 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W.
GRIGNON, Miss ADELAIDE ELIZE, 30 Blenheim Gardens, Willesden
Green, N.W.
HORRIDGE, Miss J. G., c/o Miss Pagan, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
MARTEN, ROBERT HUMPHREY, Allensmore, Swansea.
Nicoll, Mrs. Delancy, Windymere, Southampton, Long Island, U.S.A.
RATHBONE, JOHN S., Mystic, Conn., U.S.A.
SCHULTZE, DR. OTTO, 4 Markt, Merseburg, Germany.
THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
BAYLEY, MRS. EMILY E., 1438 Poplar Street, Philadelphia, Pennsyl
vania, U.S.A.
BORUM, Miss ADDIE A., Rural Route 1, Attica, Indiana, U.S.A.
BROWN, Miss ELLA, Canaan, Connecticut, U.S.A.
CAPRON, MRS. CYNTHIS J., 340 S. Galena Avenue, Freeport, 111., U.S.A.
CARRINGER, M. A., Marienville, Pa., U.S.A.
LAFLIN, Louis E., 369 Erie St., Chicago, III, U.S.A.
LAFLIN, MRS. Louis E., 369 Erie Street, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
MORGAN, CHARLES E., 6 Manchester St., Nashua, N.H., U.S.A.
PERRY, HON. A. A., 291 Broadway, Somerville, Mass., U.S.A.
STEIN, DR. S. G., Muscatine, Iowa, U.S.A.
WILLIAMS, E. B., 354 Hall St., Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE Council met on Friday, November 14th, at 2.45 p.m., at 20
Hanover Square, W. Present :—Sir W. Crookes, F.E.S., in the chair ;
Messrs. W. W. Baggally, M. Crackanthorpe, J. G. Piddington, F. C.
S. Schiller, S. C. Scott, A. F. Shand, H. A. Smith, Lt.-Col. Taylor,
Mrs. Verrall, and Mr. N. W. Thomas, Organising Secretary.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and confirmed, after the
insertion of an explanatory note.
DEC., 1902.] Meeting of the Council. 307
Two new Members and six new Associates were elected. The
election of eleven new Associates of the American Branch was
announced. The names and addresses are given above. The resigna
tions of one Member and eight Associates were announced.
A vote of thanks was passed to Mrs. Stewart for presenting a
portrait of her husband, the late Professor Balfour Stewart, a former
president of the Society, to be placed in the Eooms at Hanover Square.
Various matters relating to the finances of the Society were discussed
at length.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 118th General Meeting of the Society was held in the Hall
at 20 Hanover Square, on Friday, November 14th, at 4.15 p.m.
Mr. A. F. Shand in the chair.
MR. F. C. S. SCHILLER read a paper on " Human Sentiment with
Regard to a Future Life," embodying some of the conclusions which
he had drawn from an analysis of the answers received to the question
naire recently circulated by the American Branch. It is hoped that
the paper will be published in the Proceedings, and as it would not
be possible to give an adequate summary of a subject involving so
many details within the space at our disposal, no abstract of the
paper is appended. For the same reason the subsequent discussion is
but briefly reported.
THE CHAIRMAN thanked Mr. Schiller for his extremely interesting
and brilliant paper. The object of the inquiry of which it treated
had been to obtain for the Society a clearer notion of the currents of
opinion which stimulated or diminished interest in their work. He
thought the Society's labours had already modified to some extent the
prevailing views ; for phenomena once treated with ridicule were now
admitted as legitimate subjects of scientific investigation.
MR. SCHILLER, in reply to questions, said that no doubt the word
ing of some of the questions might have been improved upon, but the
essential thing had been to frame questions which people would be
willing to answer. The practical lesson to be learnt from the results
of the inquiry was that social sentiment was not with them to the
extent that they had expected. A considerable proportion of intelli
gent people cared for none of these things, and the future prospects of
the Society would largely depend on whether they succeeded or not
in gaining the ear of these Gallios.
308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1902.
CASE.
G. 272.
THE following account of a haunted house was sent us on March 3,
1902, by one of the chief percipients. Initials, frequently fictitious,
have been employed throughout, but the full names and addresses are
known to the Society, and Mr. Thomas has interviewed four of the
principal witnesses and was favourably impressed by them.
Mr. W. G. D , who wrote the account and collected the
corroboratory evidence, has, since leaving M House, had two
non-coincidental hallucinations, one of an unrecognized female figure,
and the other, after he had been ferreting, of a wounded rabbit.
The D family occupied M House till March, 1900. The
garden of the house has since been partly built over, and at the time
of our investigation the house was being used as a store for old papers
and documents.
Mr. W. G. D 's ACCOUNT.
For some time I have been thinking it would be of interest to write an
account of the " Haunting " of our old home, M House.
The apparition was a woman, tall, slight, and always dressed in a black
cloak with a hood over her head, except once when I saw her for two or
three minutes in broad day-light : of which more shortly. We nearly all saw
her at one time or another, very often with no apparent cause ; in fact, we got
so accustomed to it that even my sisters were not at all nervous until some
one belonging to us was ill, for we always saw her if any member of the
family were going to die.
The first time I remember was in Jan. 1893. My mother had retired
early, and two or three minutes after she. had gone upstairs, I, wishing to
speak to her, followed. When I got on to the landing I saw her room was in
darkness and heard her walking in my brother's room, which faced hers. I
stood still, and in a short time she (as I thought) came out, passed me and
went into her room, I close on her heels. She crossed the room as if she was
going to light the gas, by which time I was well within the door. As she did
not do so, I thought she could not find the matches, and spoke to her. I said
" Mother," and at the same time my brother's door opened and she came out.
It had not been she that I had followed. I made some remark, and went to
my brother and told him what I had seen. He thought I had been mistaken,
and said I must have fancied it. However, the next morning she was taken
ill and died within three weeks.
I saw the " Lady," as we called her, some time after this, but, as I did not
make a note at the time, I cannot give the exact date. I had stayed in bed
with a slight cold, getting up about half-past eleven, and was nearly dressed,
when I heard one of my sisters come upstairs and go into the store-room,
which was up three stairs from the landing. I went to the foot of these
stairs, and was just going up when I saw M was not alone. Her
DEC., 1902.] Case. 309
companion was very tall and had yellow hair, but what struck me most was
the way she was dressed, a long gown, the waist right under the arms and
covered with small flowers. My first thought was, "whoever has M got
with her 1 " then, " why does that girl always keep behind M 1 " I did
not go in, as I had my coat off, but stood for a minute or two wondering
who it could be in such a remarkable "rig-out," when M—— came out of the
room and, making some remark, went downstairs. Then for the first time it
flashed across my mind there was something strange about the person I had
seen, and whom I had not lost sight of for a minute until M had gone,
when she had walked across the room beyond my view. I went in and
looked, but could find nothing that would in any way account for it. The
room was only about nine feet by five, had a large window facing the door,
and was lined with shelves all round, with absolutely nowhere in which any
one could hide. I told one of my other sisters about it, and she asked me
not to mention it to M 1, as she had been feeling rather nervous for a day
or two, but we would see if anything happened. Nothing did.
The next time she was seen was when my father was dying. My eldest
sister, who was sitting up with him on Jan. 21, 1900, came downstairs for
something about half-past twelve a.m., and passed a figure in black on the
front staircase. She was too much troubled to take much notice at the time,
but thought again about it in the morning and told me of the occurrence.
My father died at ten o'clock, which was about half-an-hour after she had
told me what she had seen.
Another strange thing happened the night after he died. My brother
F and I were sitting in the drawing-room after all the others had gone
to bed. We had been there for perhaps half-an-hour, when the piano began
to play of its own accord ; it started at mid C and went down in minor thirds.
I heard it first, but made no remark, having often heard it before, and so
had others members of the family. But at the second or third note F
jumped out of his chair, saying, " whatever is the matter with that piano ?"
He was as white as death. "Don't touch it," I said, and going across
took out the knee and front boards, during all of which time it went on
with its weird runs. When it was all exposed, we saw that the wires were
all vibrating, but the hammers were not moving. I had thought it might
possibly be a mouse or rat, but, of course, when I had opened the piano I
saw that was not the explanation. It still went on till we heard C
(another brother), who had come downstairs for some hot water, unbolting
the door of the kitchen passage, and called for him to come into the drawing-
room : when it stopped and did not make itself heard again. So after a bit
we went to bed feeling very mystified.2
Nothing further was heard or seen until Feb. 18th, when I saw the
apparition again. I had been sitting reading after the others had retired
for the night, and it would be between twelve and one when I started
1 "M " is referred to later as "Mrs. 0 ."
2 In connection with this incident it should be mentioned that Mr. W. G. D is
by profession an organ-builder.
310 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1902.
to go up to bed. When I got to the top of the stairs I saw the door
of my father's room was open, the gas full up, and standing before the
dressing-table, resting her hands on it and gazing into the mirror, was
the apparition. I stood still for a second, then moved to try to see
past the figure into the mirror in order to get a view of her face. The
first part of this was very easy, as the dressing-table was in the corner
diagonally to the door, so that by moving a little to one side I could
see very well into the glass, when what was my surprise to see there
was no reflection. Just as I made this discovery she turned partly round,
but not enough to enable me to see her face, and moved across the room
beyond my vision. I rushed in, but there was nothing to be found, so
waited for a few minutes, and, as she did not return, I put out the gas
anil went to bed. The next day my sister-in-law died, which made three,
to put it at the least, strange coincidences.
She was seen once more before we left the house. That was on March 2nd.
I had remained at the works till ten o'clock, and was very tired when I got
home. After supper and a smoke, on going upstairs about eleven, I saw the
same figure standing on the landing. She went into my father's room as I
got to the top of the stairs. As there were no lights at the time except the
large glass lantern in the roof of the staircase, I thought it might possibly
be an effect of light and shade, so walked backwards downstairs again, but
could not reproduce the phenomenon. I said nothing about it in the
morning, and almost forgot it till during the day, when I was seeing a
friend off by train. I heard my name called from further down the train,
and saw a cousin, who told me she had been telegraphed for to go to her
father who was dying. (He died the same night.) I said to my sister when I
got home, "I saw the 'black lady' last night." "Oh!" she remarked,
" Uncle A is worse." (He had been ill for some weeks, but we had
no reason to expect his immediate death.) "By Jove !" said I, "you have
hit it. I saw N at tlie station, and she told me she had been sent for."
We have here five appearances, four of which coincide with a death.
As I said before, it was seen many times by other members of the family,
but, as there have been no careful notes kept by them, I can give no detailed
account, nor do I enlarge on the noises of footsteps, the opening of doors,
and similar phenomena ; but will only mention one other circumstance
which happened after we had left the house.
My brother F was superintending the removal of a lot of old furuiture
which we were sending down to the auction rooms. One of the men who
was doing the work had brought a large retriever dog, which F was
going to pat, when its owner told him not to, as it was so savage. They had
got everything out, and the house locked up, when they discovered the dog
was missing. The door being opened, they found him pressed against the
wall, so paralysed with terror that his master had to fetch him out, as he
dared not move.
Such was the last we had to do with the " M House Ghost."
March 3, 1902. (Signed in full) W. G. D .
BBC., 1902.] Case. 311
On March 22, 1902, Mr. W. G. D wrote in reply to a letter
from Mr. N. W. Thomas to say that he would welcome and assist in
any investigation undertaken by the Society, and added :
" My report was written from memory with the exception of dates, as I in
nearly every case told some one in the house what I had seen, and therefore
did not trouble to make notes."
On March 29, 1902, he sent the following corroboratory evidence :
(1) of his brother C
25th March., 1902.
... I fancy my earliest experiences at M House must have been
rather in the hearing than the seeing line. As of course you will remember
I was a fearfully nervous and highly-strung child ; nor must you forget the
nightly horrors I underwent in the world of dreams.
To this day I recall most vividly lying in bed and listening to the sound
of a heavy footfall on the stairs at the back of the house—Thump, thump !
I call it a footfall, but it was rather a succession of loaded knocks appearing
to mount the stairs. All that is more than twenty years ago, yet, to this
day, I am puzzled to account for those noises.
The most terrible of all my experiences took place when I was about six
or seven years of age. At that time, as you will remember, I was sleeping
with you in the room which faced the top of the staircase. One night I
awoke—as to the time I have little or no idea—but it was, to use a vener
able term, " in the middle of the night." You were asleep. There was a
sufficiently large gas for one to see things plainly. Suddenly I was conscious
of a strange noise in the passage outside as of someone slithering along in
loose slippers. The door was slightly ajar ; it now moved slowly and
silently open, and there entered a shape and stood beside the bed. How
can I describe that for which there are no words adapted ? It was white,
bulgy, and unutterably loathsome ; that is all I can say. I remember I
gave a piercing yell, and fled from the bed to the shelter of the next room,
not however before the thing, whatever it was, had taken its departure. My
first action had been to cover my head with a shield of bedclothes, and when
I ventured to look again " Bogey " had gone. It was a credit to your powers
of sleep that through all this you did not awake.
The only occasion on which I saw "the lady" must have been when I was
about twelve years old. It was the night of your birthday, which I cannot
remember, but either your eighth or ninth. You and F were both in bed
and asleep, but I remember the date because the Pater had purchased some
" animal books " for you that evening, and I wanted to have a look at them
before I went to bed. I left the supper-table rather earlier than the others,
leaving all the family downstairs except E . As I crossed the corridor
upstairs I saw her (as I imagined) standing, with her back towards me,
before the washing-stand in the Pater's dressing-room. I went into your
bedroom ; there was E sitting reading by the bed. " Why," said I in
312 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1902.
astonishment, "were you not in father's dressing-room just now?" "No,"
she answered. (Indeed, as she was talking to me she could not have been in
the dressing-room at the other side of the house not thirty seconds before.)
We went and made a search, but, of course, found nothing.
Re your curious experience with the Mater, I am a little vague. I
remember it, but not in detail. From the point of view of evidence, my
memories on the subject are hardly worth putting down. I should be pre
pared to sware to the truth of the incident, because I have so often and for
so many years heard you relate it without variation of a single detail, but I
do not remember that you told me of it the night that it took place. You
may well have done so, however, and I may well have forgotten it, as at the
time I was entirely obsessed by the idea of the loss consequent on R.'s
leaving England.
With regard to the piano episode I can be much more explicit. It was the
night of the Pater's death ; time about 11 o'clock, maybe a little later. I
had gone upstairs to bed leaving you and F in the drawing-room.
Coming down for some hot water to the kitchen, I was in the act of unbolting
the door leading thereto, when suddenly from the other end of the passage
came your voice. I turned and saw you. You said : " C , come in here,
the piano is playing." I remember saying " nonsense," or something of that
kind, but came at once. The music, however, had stopped ; the piano was in
a more or less dismantled condition, and you both told me how you had been
sitting by the fire, when suddenly F said to you, "Why, the piano's
playing ! " You had heard it before he spoke, and now jumping up rushed
to the instrument and took off the front. I remember the whole thing as
vividly as if it had happened yesterday. C D .
(2) of his brother F
25th March, 1902.
My brother wishes me to send you a short account of the incidents con
nected with M House, of which I was a witness.
The first I remember was the night my father died. He [i.e. Mr. W. G.
D.] and I were sitting in the drawing-room after the other members of the
family had gone to bed. I should say the time would be about 11 o'clock.
Suddenly without any warning the piano struck several notes, as though to
test the instrument, and then started running up in a sort of scale several
times. We jumped up, and my brother went across to the piano, and took
the front and knee-board out, exposing the whole of the front of the piano.
I thought it must have been a rat or a mouse, but, though the strings were
vibrating, there was no sign of anything, and if there had been we could not
have failed to see it.
The second occurrence was after we had removed from the house, and I
was superintending the removal of some old furniture to the auction-room.
One of the men had a large retriever dog, which, its owner said, was very
savage, as when I was going to pat it he cautioned me not to do so, as it
would probably go for me.
DEC., 1902.] Case. 313
By some mischance the dog got locked into the house, and it was perhaps,
ten minutes before we discovered that it was missing. When we did, and
opened the door to look for it, we saw it crouched in the passage looking up the
stairs in such a state of fright that its owner had to fetch it out, as it would
not turn its back to the stairs to come to the door.
As regards the rest of my brother's statement, I can only say that in
every case he told me of seeing the figure before the death followed, and that
as far as I know he is absolutely correct in every detail.
F D .
(3) of his sister K .
My brother has asked me to write an account of what I saw on the 21st of
January, 1900.
My father was ill of pleurisy, and I went downstairs out of his bedroom
every hour, to fetch fresh hot bran-bags from the kitchen.
The kitchen was at the end of a long passage, into which all the down
stairs rooms opened. The drawing-room and dining-room doors faced each
other. I had left the gas lights in the passage and on the staircase partly up,
and there was a kind of twilight, but quite sufficient to see anything by.
As I came partly up the passage to go upstairs, I saw a figure in black
standing between the two doors. I could not see the face, for it seemed to be
covered all over with this black drapery, and when I looked again it was
gone. I thought I was mistaken and there had been nothing there. In the
morning my father was better, and we thought the danger was over, but he
died suddenly of heart disease about 10 a.m. My brother told me twice
within the following four weeks that he had seen some one, but each time it
was upstairs in the room in which my father had died. In each case it was
followed by death, my sister-in-law's on the 18th of February, and my
uncle's on March 2nd. [Mr. W. G. D gives the dates as the 19th of
February and the 3rd of March.]
The figures he saw were of women, the one I saw was black, but so draped
that I could not see whether man or woman. K D .
(4) of his sister Mrs. P .
March 29, 1902.
In answer to your letter, I twice saw the lady who walks M House.
The first time, in November 1882, I was going upstairs, and had just reached
the landing by the green door, when, to my surprise, I saw her going up the
four stairs leading to the back bedroom. I followed, for she looked very
nice in a long satin dress and some lace like a scarf round her neck. She
suddenly disappeared in the darkness. I am sure of the date, for it was just
after my engagement was broken off. I told T , and said I wondered if
it was a warning about R . The next time was also in the winter. She
was standing outside the front door, and I was coming downstairs ; she looked
so hard, and then disappeared. I went into the drawing-room, and mother
said : " Come to the fire, child, you do look cold." I was frightened by the
314 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1902.
lady disappearing aa she did. I must also say, being born on the stroke of
twelve midnight, many people say it gives second sight.
E, S [an old servant] was here last night, and told me what she
saw. She seemed very frightened about the cellar, and says the figure
beckoned her with its finger. This history is quite true in every word.
M C P .
(5) of the servant R S , (obtained through Mrs. P ).
While living as cook at M House, I twice saw the lady in white.
The first time was one Saturday night. I had been having a bath late, and
was taking the bath back across the landing, when I saw some one. I
thought it was Miss M , and went into my room and shut the door ;
then, thinking that rude, I opened the door and saw the lady fall through
the third or fourth stair. I said, " Oh ! Mary, Miss M has fallen through
the stairs. Come and look." We could find nothing, and the stairs were
quite firm. The second time was after a party, and I was the last to go to
bed. The lady came out of the bedroom on the right-hand side of the back
staircase. She had a small roll of papers in her hand. She again went
through the stairs. I also once saw a tall figure in white, in the cellar at
the end of the passage, with one finger held up. I was very much
frightened, and let the jug of beer I had been getting fall.
This is quite true, and I sign my name. R S .
(6) of his sister N .
I never while at home saw anything in the way of an apparition.
I remember mother thinking she saw a tall woman, dressed in black, cross
from one of the front sitting rooms to the other. The date must have been
between 1884 and her death, as she thought it was A M [a living
friend].
As far as I remember, M fancied that she saw a lady dressed in white
on the back stairs. I am sorry to say I cannot remember the date. I
believe no important event followed either of these. N .
With regard to the above statements, Mr. W. G. D wrote on
March 29, 1902, as follows :
You will notice my sister and brother C and F are able to substan
tiate most of the details of my first report, and C mentions one other
occurrence which is of interest : i.e. seeing a lady on one of my birthdays.
It was May 1st, 1884. I was ill in bed, and E was sitting with me.
(I was seven at the time.) I remember C bringing up the books, and
asking E to come out of the room. I did not know at the time for what
reason, but have often heard them speak of it since.
The other statements «re from two of my sisters, one of whom (M. P )
was married before any of the events I have mentioned took place. The
other was at home till some time after the death of my mother, and it was
DEC., 1902.] Case. 315
to her I mentioned having seen some one in the store room with M , but
unfortunately she has no recollection of the occasion.
Mrs. P brings forward two more instances of the figure being seen, and
she also sends me a statement made by R S , a cook we had for some
years at M House, and who is sister to my sister's maid, to whom she
had confided having seen " something " at her old place. She in turn told
my sister, who, knowing of my researches, sent for the girl, asked her what
she had seen, took it down, and asked her to sign it. It is rather strange
that she never mentioned it while she was with us, but there is certainly
some truth in it, as I do remember her breaking the jug, and saying there
was a man in the cellar, for my brother F and I went to investigate,
but, of course, found nothing. I know the apparition was seen by my
mother, also by another sister who is at present travelling on the Continent
with her husband, but as she will be away for some mouths, I am not able
to get a statement from her. [Obtained later, see Mrs. C.'s letter below.] I
should perhaps mention that the person referred to by Mrs. P as R
was not the same as the one 0 mentions by the same initial.
A few weeks later Mr. W. G. D sent the following answers to
the questions which are here given within square brackets :
[Q. How many times in all was the figure seen ?]
1. I am not able to give the number, as she was certainly seen several
times by my mother, and may have been by others when I have not heard.
I have mentioned every time since 1893, including the statement by
E. S . In all seven appearances.
[Q. Did you compare notes ?]
2. I do not think we ever compared notes as to the figure being the same
in all cases. My father was very much against the subject being mentioned
at all, and was very much displeased if we did so, which makes it very
unlikely that the servants ever heard anything about a " ghost."
[Q. Was the figure seen outside the front door the same as the figure seen
inside the house ?]
3. I am sending you Mrs. P 's letter in regard to this question.
[Q. Did other servants see an) thing ?]
4A. I have reason to believe that other servants have seen something, but
can say nothing definite on this point. I asked my sister to see the house
maid we had at the same time we had R S (and whom she refers to
as Mary in her statement), and to ask her if she ever saw anything during
the time she was with us, but with no good results. The girl would only
say, " It does not do to tell all one sees." I then interviewed her, but could
get nothing more out of her. From her manner both my sister and I thought
she had seen something, but would not say what. Then again, we have had
two or three girls suddenly give notice for no reason at all that we could
make out. They would say they were sorry to leave, were very happy, but
something had unsettled them.
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1902.
[Q. Had the house the reputation of being haunted ?]
4s. I do not think the hoiise had the reputation of being haunted, though
I have been asked two or three tim,'S by people I met for the first time if we
had seen anything, and, when I pressed them for their reason for asking,
they would say they had " heard things," but they would never give a
proper explanation of what they had heard.
[Q. Did every one see or hear something ?]
4c. It is difficult to say as regards strangers. My three eldest brothers
never saw anything, nor yet my sister N .
[Q. Did you investigate the piano only once, and did others hear the
piano ?]
5A. I have come downstairs to the piano in the middle of the night, but
beyond looking to see if the lid was closed (which it in every instance was)
I have never investigated. I am afraid I am to blame for no other member
of the family mentioning the piano. When I asked for their statements I
put the question in the form, "Have you ever seen anything?"; it would
have been better to have said "seen or heard anything." My eldest sister
tells me she has often heard it, but has not cared to go downstairs in the
middle of the night to see what it was. You will also see from the enclosed
letter from Mrs. W [a married sister] that she heard it when she was at
home. Then again, it is hardly likely that F and I would have the
same hallucination at the same time.
[Q. Why was C incredulous ?]
SB. C 's incredulity was, I think, more expressed than felt. If you notice,
he only said, " Nonsense," or some such remark, to himself when I called
him. He certainly believed the piano had been playing when he came into
the room ; therefore it is most probable that he spoke to reassure himself.
You must remember he was down the long passage, which was quite dark at
the time : we had had a most trying day, and, to my mind, there was no
wonder if he felt nervous at being told the piano was playing on that
particular night.
[Q. Were the steps always the same ?]
6. I shall answer No. 8 with this, as the animals were very prominent
figures with regard to the footsteps. So far as I can find out, except in the
instance mentioned by C , we all heard the steps the same, just as if
made by a person walking slowly. We very often heard them on a Sunday-
night. The servants were always allowed to go to Church, and one of my
brothers or I always stayed in the house, and generally one of my sisters
would be in with us. We used to sit in the drawing-room, and had the dogs
with us, or in the passage. (We generally had from two to four dogs of one
kind or another.) Suddenly one of them would start to whine, then they
would all start, and if they were in the passage would scratch at the door to
come in. Then we would hear footsteps going up and down the passage or
moving across the rooms overhead ; and in this latter case we could never
get the dogs to go upstairs even when we went. Sometimes the steps would
DEC., 1902.] Case. 317
go on for a moment or two, and again they would continue for the whole
evening off and on, until the dogs were nearly mad, and we would let them
into the garden, where they would quiet down. This last fact is of great
interest, as we had an acre and a quarter of ground, and had the noise been
an acoustical freak caused by some one in the yards or garden, the dogs
would have found them. I have asked my eldest sister and my brothers
C and F if they remember this, and they say they do, not once, but
many times. I believe the dogs were never with us on the occasion of the
figure being seen.
[Q. Was there a history attaching to the house ?]
7A. Not that I can [? find out] about,
[Q. Who were the previous occupiers ?]
7s. The B s had the house before we took it. They kept a large school
for boys, and were in the house for eighteen years. Before them the
H s, and prior to them a Dr. W .
[Q. Can you place the S.P.R. in communication with former occupiers ?]
7c. I am afraid it would not be possible.
[Q. How were animals affected 1]
8. See reply to No. 6.
[Q. Can you explain further about the reflection in the looking-glass ?]
9. I see from a photo of the plan I sent you I have put the dressing table
very much too far in the corner. It should have been half-way across the
window, which would make the glass in front of the right hand side of the
window frame. The table is 1 foot 8 inches wide from back to front, and
the glass an old-fashioned one on a stand of its own, which brings the glass
about 10 to 11 inches from the front of the table. The figure, as I have
said, was standing resting her hands on the table, which would bring her
face very close to the mirror, under which conditions, I think, I should have
seen a reflection had there been one, I enclose you a photo of the table and
glass which were in my father's room at the time.
[Q. Have any members of the family had similar experiences elsewhere ?]
10. No, I believe not.
[Q. Why was your brother incredulous on the occasion of the first
appearance mentioned in your narrative ?]
11. Here again, I think, the incredulity was only expressed. If you
notice, I say : " He said I must have fancied it." I do not think he doubted
my statement for a minute. It was the first time I had ever told him of
seeing anything, and I suppose he thought it would be well to make me
think I had been mistaken for fear of me becoming nervous.
[Q. How long was R S with you ?]
12. E S was with us from January 19th, 1898, till the Sunday
before my father died, when she had to go to the Hospital with housemaid's
knee. [i.e. about two years.] She was away for two or three months
between whiles, but I cannot give you the exact date.
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1902.
I am afraid I have given you a long letter to wade through, but could not
answer your questions in much less room. I am expecting my sister home
in about three weeks, and will then send you a statement from her. It is no
trouble to answer any questions you like to ask. I am only very pleased to
be able to contribute any material that is of interest to the Society.
With these answers the following letters from two of Mr. W. Gr. D.'s
sisters were sent :
FROM MRS. P .
April 2ls(, 1902.
The lady on the outside of the front door was most certainly the same
figure I had seen before on the stairs, and I at once recognized her. We
looked very hard at one another, and while so doing she suddenly dis
appeared: If you remember how much glass there is in the front door, she
could not have gone away without my seeing her turn. Then the time of
the year—winter—no woman would be out in the cold without some
covering on her head except in evening dress, and as the dogs were in the
room, they would have at once known if any real person was about.
I am perfectly certain the lady I saw twice was the same person, and that
she was a voung woman, very lovely, about 18 to 20 years of age.
M P .
FROM MRS. W .
April 21st, 1902.
In reference to your question of Saturday last as to whether I saw or
heard anything of an unusual nature whilst living at home (M House),
I certainly plainly recall the following :
I was one afternoon crossing the hall between the dining and drawing-
room when I became conscious of a grey veiled presence at my elbow. My
impression was of a tall, slight (although misty) woman clothed in a long
cloak. I was tired at the time and thought I must be mistaken, as the
glimpse was a momentary one. When I looked again I was alone. I may
remark I felt no sense of fear. I slept for some years in, the room we called
the "haunted room." Whilst there I was frequently seized with such
sudden and awful attacks of unreasoning and unaccountable terror that
I was thankful for the company of my small terrier dog in the room with
me. The horror I felt was too intangible to put into words ; it was rather
an oppressive sense of an unseen and terrible presence with me. I may
remark Frenehie (the dog) would never sleep anywhere but on the bed. In
my present house he never attempts to move from the floor, and I can only
think he too felt the influence of the room .
I slept for some time with K , and on many occasions she spoke to me
when I was falling asleep to bid me listen to the piano. On two or three
occasions I too heard faint sounds of music, but not so frequently as she did.
I usually fell asleep earlier than she did.
I have a vivid recollection of one occasion when mother followed the
DEC., 1902.] Case. 319
"presence" from the hall door into the drawing-room. It was early one
summer evening, just growing "less light" without being at all dusk. She
had been out calling, and came in by the side door to miss the long drive.
She came quickly the whole length of the hall and came into the drawing-
room where I was sitting, and then went into the dining-room and returned
immediately with an expression of great surprise : " Where is Miss M ? "
she said, " I thought she came into this room. Is she upstairs ? I do not
see her." We told her there was no visitor in the house. She exclaimed :
" There is certainly a visitor, and I think it is Miss M by her height. I
could not possibly be mistaken. She walked from the door into this room
immediately before me. I did not see her come into the house, but I saw
her most distinctly as soon as I came in." We searched the house and found
no one. Mother said she had not been able to see the face, as "the
presence " had her back towards her. She spoke of a tall woman clothed
in black. Mother felt no fear, and was almost difficult to convince that
there was no actual visitor with us. She said she had never lost sight of the
figure for a moment until reaching the drawing-room door (strangely
enough just where I thought I saw the figure I write of. I also never saw
her face).
I have simply written you a bald statement of facts set down just as I
remember them, and have not mentioned the various times when different
members of the family told me they had seen the figure, or, as we called her,
" the gray lady." " E W .
On May 28, 1902, Mr. W. G. D wrote as follows :
I have pleasure in sending you the statement you desired from Mrs.
C as to her experiences at M House. The two persons she mentions
are N , from whom you have already heard, and L , a cousin we had
staying on a visit at the time. It seems to me possible th/it the grey figure
seen may have been the same figure in white which has been often seen,
when we take into account that it was night at the time.
The extreme terror of the dog she mentions in the last case I remember
very well.
I have been hoping to let you have an account from my cousin, but she
does not seem very willing to send it. Should she do so I will forward it to
you.
FROM MRS. C .
May 26th, 1902.
The first time I remember seeing anything of an unusual character at
M House was when I was about 1 5, five years after we first went there. I
slept with N in the room to the right of the top of the large stairs. We
went to bed and to sleep as usual, when I awoke with a great feeling of
dread to feel something quite close to me. As far as I remember (and the im
pression is very real even now) it was a grey veiled figure, and the head seemed
almost to rest upon my bed. I did not see the face. The next time was
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [DEC., 1902.
when father and the girls were at Whitby. I was sleeping in the same
room, and was alone that night. I do not know if I had slept or not, but I
heard heavy steps begin at the top of the stone stairs and go right down to
the bottom of them. I did not feel really afraid then, as it sounded very
like mother's step, but, when I went to her, the passage was quite
dark, she had not left her room ; you, C , and the servants (the only
other people in the house) had also not been out of bed.
The last time was when I was sleeping with L (a cousin), in the room to
the right hand of the stairs where father and mother and H died. We
had our old dog under the bed, and Rex, my little dog, upon it. We both
heard a strange loud noise. I got up to be met at the door by C , and
you came out of your room at the very same time. Rex barked very
much, but would not leave the bed, and the large dog we could not move
at all, he just lay, and nothing would make him come out. We found
nothing.
This completes the available evidence, as a statement by the cousin
has not been sent.
Dr. William Vincent, a member of the S.P.R., kindly endeavoured to
trace and interrogate former occupiers of M House. Unfortunately
he could only get into communication with two, and their evidence is
negative.
A nephew of one former occupier, writes Dr. Vincent on May 23,
1902, "gave me a negative history as to any report of the supposed
haunting of M House. He tells me that he was very familiar
with M House when a boy."
A daughter of the same former occupier wrote as follows on May
26, 1902, in reply to inquiries from Mr. N. W. Thomas :
" I have received your note, but I think you have been quite misinformed as
to M House. During all the years I lived there, I never saw or heard
of anything unusual that could not be traced to " rats," of which there were
certainly a number, as a horse-dealer occupied the adjoining premises."
Since the above was printed, a second-hand (almost equal to first
hand) account of the haunting of M . House between 1882-1885
has been discovered among the unpublished G. cases preserved at the
S.P.R. Rooms. A comparison of the two records discloses certain
discrepancies, not, however, of fundamental importance; and these
will be discussed in a subsequent number of the Journal, in which
extracts from the earlier report will appear.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. X
1901-1902
A.
ABNORMAL STATES, Temporary Reminiscence of a long-forgotten Lan
guage during Delirium 279
Accounts of Income and Expenditure of the Society - - - 63, 198
Alexander, Prof., Case contributed by - - ' - - - - 33
Allen, Miss L., Case contributed by --,---- 303
Alternations of Personality, Case of Luraucy Vennum - - -99-104
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research—
,, Inquiry into Human Sentiment with regard to a Future Life
109,295, 307
„ List of Members 1, 50, 65, 81, 97, 113, 130, 146, 194, 209,
258, 273, 290, 306
Animal Apparitions 308
Animals apparently affected by Psychical Phenomena
46, 310, 312, 313, 316-320
Annual General Meetings 51, 194
Anonymously contributed Cases 31
Apparitions, Alleged, of the Virgin in Tuscany - 235, 236
Archer, William, on Psychical Research ------ 60
Arriola, Pepito R., A Musical Prodigy 20
Articles brought to Sittings to assist communication - - 68, 69, 147, 286
Automatic Messages, Note on some, by M. Petrovo-Solovovo - - 70, 84
„ Recent Experiments - - - 70, 84, 269, 291-95
„ Phenomena, Need of more Experiments in 89
,, „ Literature bearing on - - - - - 89-90
„ Romance, Miss M. Bramston on 268
A 2
ii Index to Vol. X.
B.
B., H., Case contributed by ........ 263
B., Mrs., Cases contributed by 161
Baggally, W. W., Case collected by 170
Bangs, The Misses L. and H., Exposure of the Trick Methods of, by the
Rev. S. L. Krebs 7
Barcellos, Dr. A., Case confirmed by 190, 191
Barker, Mrs. A. L., On some Points in Prof. Hyslop's Report - 172, 212
„ Reply to, by Prof. Hyslop 212
Bates, Miss K., On definitions of " Faith " 155, 175
Beauchamp, H. K., On the Fire Walk 116, 297
Bell, Alex. B., Case collected by 232
Bennett, E. T., Retirement of 114, 115
Bigg, Miss L., Experiments in Cartomancy ----- 47
Blaikie, Miss J., Case contributed by 30
Blunt, J., Case contributed by 298
Bramston, Miss M., On Automatic Romance 268
Brewster, B., On some Points in Prof. Hyslop's Report - - - 272
Brierley, J. A., Case contributed by - 232
C.
C., Personal Experiences of, in Mind-Reading and Allied Phenomena
177, 199, 230
C., M., Automatic Messages, Experiments with 70, 84
Cameron, Miss M. L., On Apparitions of the Virgin - 235
Carrington, Hereward, On an Alleged Case of Elongation - - - 238
„ „ On Dr. Hodgt-on's Sittings with Mrs. Thompson 283
Cartomancy (Non- professional), Predictions by 47
Cases:—"G" Cases 43,170,232,265,274,298,308
"L" Cases 31,33,79,82,134,140,161,263
"P" Cases 22,24,26,28,30,38,77,78,136
Census, American Branch of S. P.R., Inquiry into Human Sentiment
with regard to a Future Life 109, 295, 307
Child Percipients - 139, 179, 311
Clairvoyance, Experimental ------- 203, 204
„ Spontaneous 30
„ Telepathic 36-38, 78, 82, 83, 298, 299
See also Crystal Visions and Somnambulism.
Coad, Miss, Experimental Telepathy with - 135, 261, 262
Coincidences—A Case of Double Mis-Recognition - 303
„ Chance- - 181
Committees—Elections on—(1901) - - 52
(1902) 196
Correspondence - - 74, 121, 122, 123, 125, 126, 144, 155, 157, 158,
172, 175, 212, 223, 236, 253, 255, 272, 283, 287
Index to Vol. X. iii
Council, Address by, to Members on the Work and Needs of the
Society --85
Council, Meetings of 2, 51, 66, 81, 98, 114, 130, 146, 195, 210, 258, 274, 290, 306
„ Elections on 51, 52, 66, 194, 196
„ Memorial to Lord Rayleigh 58, 60, 85
Crystal Visions, Collective 134, 135
„ Subjective 179, 236
„ Telepathic 83, 134-136
„ Need of more Experiments in - - 89
„ Literature bearing on 89-90
D.
D., W. G., Case contributed by 308
Dead, Phantasms of the : Hallucinations - 139, 170, 183
„ „ Dreams - - - 164, 165, 232, 274, 277, 279, 298
„ „ Information given by 274-79
,, „ Need of more Information concerning 91
„ „ „ Literature bearing on - - - 91
Death Signs, supposed : Hallucinations - - 136, 308, 309, 310, 313
„ „ Tickings - 163, 165
Documentary Evidence, Contemporary 29, 32, 36-38, 69, 78, 79, 80,
82-84, 135, 162, 167, 168, 177, 199, 230, 261-66
„ „ „ Extant, 36-38, 78, 79, 80, 82-84, 177, 199,
230, 261, 263-265
„ „ Importance of, in Psychical Research - 293, 294
„ „ Telepathic Diaries and Records 177, 199, 230
Dordogne, Alleged Apparitions of the Virgin in ---- 236
Dreams, Clairvoyance (telepathic) in - - 25, 26, 27, 30, 78, 136, 140, 162
„ Memory revivals in 30
„ Recurrent 165
„ Simultaneous -------- 168, 265
„ Telepathically induced 68
See also Premonitions and Telepathy.
E.
ECSTASY. See Fire Walk.
„ Indications of, during Epidemic Hallucinations - 235
Editorial 157
Ellis, Guy, Case contributed by 25
Elongation, Alleged Phenomena of 104-109, 238
Epidemic of Hallucinations in Tuscany 235
F.
F., Miss A. C., Case contributed by 140
" Faith," definition of. See Spiritistic Hypothesis and the attitude of
the S.P.R.
A3
iv Index to Vol. X.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, Case contributed by - - .-- 270
„ „ On Malay Superstitions .... 260
Fiji. See Fire Walk.
Fire Walk, The - -116,132,154,250,296
„ Ecstasy, indications of, during - 154, 252, 297
„ Europeans, by 117, 119-120, 133, 134
„ Experimenters burnt ---- 252, 253, 296-297
„ Heredity, Indications of, in connection with - - - 117
„ Non-European Races, by - - 116-121, 132, 154, 250, 296-98
Foxwell, Percy L., Case of "The Missing Stockbroker" 82
Freeborn, Dr. Henry, on Temporary Reminiscence of a Long-forgotten
Language during Delirium 279
Future Life. See Inquiry into Human Sentiment concerning.
G.
GENIUS, Mechanism of, Musical Prodigies ------ 20, 21
Glardon, Rev. Aug., Case contributed by ------ 78
„ „ Experiments in Subliminal Consciousness of Time 93
Grieve, Miss B. H., Cases contributed by 134, 260-63
Gudgeon, Col., On the Fire Walk 116, 134
Guichard, Dr. A., Notes on the Case of Ludovic X. - - - 246-248
Gurney, Edmund, Memorial Library Fund - 64, 234
„ „ Catalogue 159
Gurney, H. P., Case contributed by - 298
H.
HADATH, E. G., Case contributed by 45
Hales, F. N., A Case of Supposed Thought-Reading (Ludovic X.) - 241
Hall, G. Ely, On the Fire Walk in Polynesia - ... 132-134
Hallucination, Collective, as an Explanation of Spiritistic Phenomena 105
Hallucinations, Collective 105, 134, 135
„ Epidemic in Tuscany 235
„ Induced, in Normal State, by Suggestion - - 184, 185
„ Subjective - - - - 69, 134, 135, 182-183, 308
„ Telepathic. See Telepathy.
Hardy, Thomas, on Psychical Research - 60
Harris, D. Fraser, Case collected by 31
Haunts, Apparitions 43, 44, 183, 265-67, 308-320
„ „ seen before Deaths - - - - - 308-313
„ Bell-ringing (Piano playing, etc.) - - 44-46, 309, 312, 316, 318
„ Sounds 43-46, 309, 311, 312, 316, 318
Henry, Miss Teuira, On Fire Walk in Polynesia - - - 132, 133
Herne, Alleged Mediumship of 105
Hitchfield, Miss, Experiments in Thought-Transference - - 261-63
Hocken, Dr. T. M., On the Fire Walk in Fiji ----- 116
Index to Vol. X. v
Hodgson, Dr. R., The American Census re Human Sentiment and a
Future Life 109
„ Introductory Note on Exposure of Trick Methods
of the Misses Bangs ------ 5
„ and Newspaper Statements regarding Mrs. Piper - 150
„ Report on Sittings with Mrs. Thompson, Criticisms of 283, 287
„ On some Cases of Secondary Personality 99
Home, D. D., Alleged Mediumship of 104, 157
Huxley, Thomas H., Case recorded by 69
Hyperaesthesia, possible Cases of—Sound 62, 270
Hypnagogic Illusions 183,185
Hyslop, Prof. J. H., On the Future of Psychical Research 19
„ Report on the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper—
„ „ Correction of Statistical Summary - - 224
„ Criticisms of - - - 172, 212, 236, 272
„ Reply to - - - - 212
I.
INDIA, Fire Ceremonies in. See Fire Walk.
Inquiry into Human Sentiment regarding a Future Life - 109, 295, 307
International Institute of Psychology, Work of 229
Involuntary Whispering in a supposed Case of Thought-Transference 241-250
J.
JAMBS, PROF. W., On the Work of F. W. H. Myers in Psychology - 54
Jephson, Mrs., Case contributed by 43
Jones, Sir Lawrence, On the Attitude of the Society towards the
Spiritistic Hypothesis 121
Joy, G. P., Case contributed by - 44
K.
KEULEMANS, J. G., Case contributed by 26
Knock, Alleged Apparitions of the Virgin at 236
Krebs, The Rev. Stanley L., A Description of some Trick Methods
used by the Misses Bangs 6, 7
L.
LANG, ANDREW, Cases collected by - 25, 30, 134, 232, 236
On the Fire Walk 116, 132
On the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper - - 284, 288
Langley, Prof. S. P., On the Fire Walk in Tahiti - - - 116, 132
Experiments as to Temperature of the Stones 116-121, 132
Leaf, Dr. Walter, On the Case of Lurancy Vennum - - - 103, 104
Library, Supplementary Catalogues—Edmund Gurney Library - 159
„ General Library - - - 160
Lindsay, Lord, Evidence on the Mediumship of D. D. Home - - 104
vi Index to Vol. X.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Memorial Address on the late F. W. H. Myers - 53
„ On Modern Science and Psychical Research - 253, 255
„ Elected President of the Society - - - 52, 85, 196
,, On the Spiritistic Hypothesis and the Attitude of
the Society 122, 158, 176
„ On the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson - 67-69
M.
MALAY SPIRITUALISM, W. W. Skeat on 259
„ Pseudo-possession, indications of 259
Mai-Observation, Possibilities of, in connection with Psychical
Research 5, 6, 239, 240, 245
Marillier, Leon, Obituary notice of, by N. W. Thomas ... 153
Matter through Matter, Report of an Alleged Case of the Passage of,
by N. W. Thomas --------- 225
Mauritius. See Fire Walk.
M'Clellan, James, alleged to communicate through Mrs. Piper 174, 219-220
M'Connel, Dr. W. H., Cases collected by 140, 161
Meetings of the Society, Annual General 51, 194
„ „ General - 2, 53, 67, 82, 98, 147, 197, 259, 289, 307
„ „ „ Reduction in the Number of - 115
„ „ Private, for Members and Associates only
115, 256, 267, 288, 291, 295, 306
Members, Associates and Honorary and Corresponding Members,
List of - 1, 49, 65, 81, 97, 113, 129, 145, 193, 209, 257, 273, 290, 306
Members, American Branch 1, 50, 65, 81, 97, 113, 130, 145, 194, 209,
258, 273, 290, 305
Memory, Revivals of 70-74,181-183,279-283
„ „ in Abnormal States 279-283
„ Theory of the Stratification of 281-83
Mercier, Dr. C. A., Notes on the Temporary Reminiscence of a
Long-forgotten Language during Delirium - 279
Meredith, Mrs., Case contributed by 136
Mind-Reading and Allied Phenomena, The Personal Experiences of C.
177, 199, 230
„ Pseudo-Phenomena 181
„ Telepathy from the " Dead," Indications of 204-208, 230
Mis-Recognition, A Case of Double 303
Monitions 61, 62
Moses, Stainton, Alleged Mediumship of - - 157, 174, 175, 220-22, 269
Motor Impulses -----39
Murray, Donald, on Prof. Hyslop's Report on the Trance Phenomena
of Mrs. Piper 236
Murray, Gilbert, Case contributed by 61
Musical Prodigy, A, Pepito R. Arriola 20
Index to Vol. X, vii
Myers, F. W. EL, Communications purporting to come from - 294, 295
„ Death of ........ 17
„ Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death,
Announcement of 96
„ On Hypersesthesia 61
„ Memorial Addresses—by Prof. W. James - - 54
„ „ Dr. Oliver Lodge - - 63
„ „ Frank Podmore - - 56
„ „ Prof. Ch. Richet - - 56
N.
" NELLY " (Control). See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson 147,148
Newbold, Prof. W. Romaine, Case contributed by - - - - 22
Newnham, Rev. P. H., Monition recorded by 61
Newspapers, The, on Mrs. Piper. See Piper, Mrs.
O.
OBITUARIES—H.M. Queen Victoria 17
„ Marillier, Loon 152
Myers, F. W. H. 17,53,54,56
P.
PACKARD, REV. G. T., Case contributed by 22
Paladino, Eusapia, Alleged Mediumship of 157
Passage of Matter through Matter, Alleged Case of - - - - 225
Pedley, Ch., On the possibility of Local Organisation of Members for
Work in Psychical Research - -126
Personality, Alternations of, The Case of Lurancy Vennum - 99, 104
„ „ Noted Cases of 99, 104, 283
Peters, Alfred, Alleged Mediumship of 106-109, 238
Petrovo-Solovovo, M., Cases contributed by - - - - 70, 84, 274
„ Note on some Automatic Messages - - - 70, 84
Petrucci, Dr., Evidence in the Case of Ludovic X. - - - 245, 246
Piddington, John, On the Fire Walk in Mauritius - - 251-253, 296
Piddington, J. G., Case collected by - 28
„ On the Spiritistic Hypothesis, and the attitude of
the Society, 125
,, On the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson - 147
„ Mrs. J. G., Case contributed by 303
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of
19, 111, 142, 148, 150, 172, 175, 212, 224, 236, 269, 272, 284
„ „ Prof. Hyslop's Report on 19, 111, 172, 212, 224, 236, 272
„ „ A. Lang on - 284, 288
„ „ Newspaper Reports and - - - 142,148,150
„ „ Similarity between, and the Trance Phenomena
, of Mrs. Thompson 284
viii Index to VoL X.
Podmore, Frank, On the Life and Work of F. W. H. Myers - - 56
„ On the Spiritistic Hypothesis, etc., and the attitude
of the Society 123
Polley, John, Case contributed by 170
Poltergeist Phenomena in Haunted Houses, Bell-ringing, etc.
44-46, 309, 311, 312, 316, 318
Predictions, by Cartomancy 47
„ Mediumistic ------- 38, 77, 292, 293
Premonitions, Dreams - - 22, 24, 26, 28, 30, 78, 163, 164, 165, 168
„ Hallucinations .... 163, 164, 308-310, 312, 313
„ Impression 189
Presentiment, An Unfulfilled - 69
Presidency of the Society for Psychical Research—
„ Election of Sir O. J. Lodge 52, 85, 196
„ Memorial to Lord Rayleigh 58, 60
Presidential Addresses 53, 197, 253
Pseudo-Hallucinations 181-185
Pseudo-Possession, The Case of Lurancy Vennum 99
„ Malay Natives, among - 259
Psychic Research Company, not connected with the S.P.R. - - 95
Psychical Research, Difficulties and Disappointments in the Practical
Application of 82
Psychical Research, Extension of the Work of 18, 19
Psychical Institute, International (Paris), Work of - - - 18, 229
Q-
QUINTARD, DR., On the Case of Ludovic X. - 241
R.
RAYLEIQH, LORD, Council Memorial to 58, 85
„ Reply of 60, 85
Retrocognition. See Telepathy, Experimental.
Reviews aud Notices 96
" Revue des Etudes Psychiques," Notice of 98
Richet, Prof. Ch., On the Case of Pepito Arriola 20
„ On the Work of F. W. H. Myers 56
Ridley, F., Case confirmed by -------- 26
Roff, Mary (Control). See Lurancy Vennum.
Rowe, R. C., Musical Precocity of --21
S.
SCHILLER, F. C. S., On the Future of the Society for Psychical Research 74
„ Inquiry into Human Sentiment regarding a Future Life 111,295,307
„ On Telepathic Experimentation 223
Schwabe, Mrs., On the Fire Walk in Mauritius - - - 154, 250-251, 296
Index to Vol. X. if.
Secretary, Organising, for the Society for Psychical Research
76, 77, 131, 132, 212
„ Appointment of Mr. N. W. Thomas 131, 132, 212
„ Retirement of Mr. E. T. Bennett - - 114, 115
Self-Suggestion, Inhibition of Pain, Possible Cases of - - - 252, 253
„ Predictions by Sensitives as to the course of their
own illness 101, 102
Sellin, Prof. W. C., Experiments in the Alleged Passage of Matter
through Matter 225
Semenoff, Ilya, Case contributed by 274-79
Sharoeff, M., Confirmation of Case by 274-277
Sharrock, J. A., On Fire Ceremonies in Southern India - 298
Shaw, Rev. C. J. M., On an Alleged Case of Elongation - - 105-109
„ „ „ H. Carrington on - 238
Silva, Dr. C. H. da, Case contributed by ------ 33
Skeat, W. W., on Malay Spiritualism - 259
Slate-Writing, Alleged Phenomena of - 5, 7-16
Smith, Helene, Case of 221, 269
Society for Psychical Research—
„ Address by the Council to the Members - - - - • 85
„ Correspondence on the attitude of, to the Spiritistic
Hypothesis- - - 121,122,123,125,144,155-59,175
„ Future of, F. C. S. Schiller, on - 74
„ Income and expenditure (1901) 63
(1902) 198
„ Local Organisation of Members for Work, Suggestion as to 126
„ Offices, New, of 98, 211
„ Organising Secretary, Appointment of - - 131,132,212
„ Subscriptions and Donations for the Extension of the
Work of 92,112,114,128,271
Somnambulism, Spontaneous, Clairvoyance in ----- 100
Spirit Identity, Indications of - - - - 4, 5, 68, 204-208, 230, 274
„ „ Mediumistic Messages - - - 4, 5, 68
„ „ Phantasms of the Dead, Information
given by 274
Spiritistic Hypothesis, Correspondence concerning the attitude of the
Society towards 121, 123, 125, 144, 155-59, 175
Spiritualism, in Malay Ceremonies and Beliefs 259
„ Mental Phenomena, Mediumistic Messages
3, 4, 5, 8, 68, 181-182, 204, 208, 230
„ See also Spirit Identity and the Trance Phenomena of
Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Thompson.
„ Physical Phenomena, Miscellaneous ... 157; 153
„ See also Elongation and Passage of Matter through
Matter, and under Names of Mediums.
„ Physical Phenomena, Need of Information on - - 91
x Index to Vol. X.
Spiritualism, Physical Phenomena, Literature bearing on - - - - 92
Subliminal Consciousness, Range of Subliminal Mentation 21, 47, 61, 62
„ „ Revivals of Memory 70-74, 181-183, 279-283
„ „ Of the Lapse of Time ... 93, 182
„ „ See also Hypereesthesia.
Suggestion, Curative effects of-------- 260
„ Hallucinations induced by 184, 185
Stillfried, Emraeline, Alleged Mediumship of 225, 226
Stevens, Dr. E. W., On the Case of Lurancy Vennum 99
Stevenson, A., On Sir O. J. Lodge's Presidential Address - 253
„ Lodge, Sir O. J., Reply to - 255
T.
TAHITI. See Fire Walk.
Telepathic Diaries, Personal Experiences of C. - - - 177, 199, 230
Telepathy, Experimental—
„ Dreams induced 68
„ At close quarters—Impressions (scenes, etc.), etc.
187-188, 190-92, 199-204, 204-208, 261
„ „ Retrocognitive 191, 192, 199, 200-208
„ „ Unconscious Whispering and 242-250
„ Need of more Information on 90
„ „ Literature bearing on - - - - 90-91
„ Proposed Experiments in - - - - 148, 149, 176
„ F. C. S. Schiller oil - 223
Telepathy, Spontaneous—
„ Dreams 25, 27, 28, 33, 78, 136, 140, 162-164, 168, 263. 265
„ „ Simultaneous 168, 265
„ Hallucinations ----- 31, 79, 135, 164, 266
„ „ Collective ------ 135
„ Impressions - - - 79, 161, 165, 186-189, 201, 265
Terms, Definition of, in Psychical Research - ... 293, 294
Thomas, N. W., Appointment of, as Organising Secretary - 131,132,212
„ Obituary notice of Leon Marillier .... 152
„ Report on an Alleged Case of Passage of Matter
through Matter 225
Thompson, Mrs., On the attitude of the Society towards the Spiritistic
Hypothesis 144
„ Trance Phenomena of - - 2, 67-69, 144, 147, 284-88
„ Dr. Hodgson's Report on—
„ Criticisms of, by H. Carrington - - - 283
„ E. Westlake - 287
„ Sir O. J. Lodge, on 67, 68, 69
„ J. G. Piddington, on r 147
„ Dr. F. Van Eeden, on - - - - 2, 67-69, 147
Mrs. Verrall, on 2,69,284-86
Index to Vol. X. xi
Mrs. Thompson, "Nelly "(Control), Genesis of - 147,148
Thornton, W. M., Case collected by 299-303
Time, Experiments in Subliminal Consciousness of the lapse of - 93, 182
Trance Personalities, and Automatic Romance - 268-269
„ Characteristic differences between the same,
through different Mediums ... 269
„ Chief references to—" Imperator " 1 73, 217, 222,236-38
„ "Nelly" - - - 147,148
„ " Rector " 173, 174, 21 7, 222, 236-38
„ Mental and Moral Characteristics of 173-75, 216-217
„ Telepathic explanation of - - - 172-175
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper
19, 111, 142, 148, 150, 172-175, 212, 224, 236, 269, 272, 284
„ Automatic Romance and --, 268-70
„ Fraud, Question of - - - - - - 285
„ Spirit Identity, Question of -174,212,236-238,272
„ Telepathy from the Dead, facts pointing to
216-217, 272
„ „ from the Living, „ 172-175, 272
Mrs. Thompson - - 2-5, 67, 68, 69, 147, 283-88
„ Analysis showing proportion of Truth and
Falsity in certain Sittings - 3-5
,, Characteristics of 287
„ Fraud, Question of 285
„ Similarity between, and Mrs. Piper's - - 284
„ Spirit Identity, Question of - 4, 5, 68, 286
„ Telepathy from the Dead, facts pointing to 4, 5, 68
„ „ from the Living, „ 4, 5, 68
Trick Methods, Description of some, used by Miss Bangs ... 5
Tuscany, Alleged Apparitions of the Virgin in 235
V.
V., M., Case contributed by 38, 77
Van Eeden, Dr. F., On the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson
67, 147, 284-286
Vennum, Mary Luraucy, A Case of Pseudo-Possession 99
" Veritas." See V. M.
Verrall, Mrs., Cases contributed by 264, 291
„ Recent Experiments in Automatic Writing ,-- 291
„ On definitions of " Faith " 125
„ On the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson 2, 69, 284-87
Visualisation, Experiments in- - - - - - - -186
Von Bourg, Mr., Alleged Clairvoyance of, in the Case of P. F. Foxwell 82
W.
W., Miss, Case collected by 265
Walker, Miss A. E., Case contributed by ------ 28
xii Index to Vol. X.
Wallace, Dr. Abraham, Difficulties in the Practical Application of
Psychical Research 82
" Watseka Wouder," The. See Vennum, M. Lurancy.
Westlake, E., Criticism of Dr. Hodgson's Report on the Trance
Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson 287
" Wilson, J. O.," Sittings with Mrs. Thompson 147
X.
X., LUDOVIC, A Case of Supposed Thought-Reading, F. N. Hales on - 241
Y.
YOUNG, J. F., Case contributed by ------- 79
Z.
ZULEIKA, MADAME, Alleged Mediumship of 38, 77
