{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kate_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Kate B NDE 663","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kate B NDE 663  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Kate B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						203  Kate B NDE  663  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I had been very ill with asthma for several weeks following the death of my father; I was also eighteen weeks pregnant. This particular night I was feeling extremely weak and out of breath. My husband was on night shift so my mother stayed with the kids and myself until it was bedtime. It was about 11:30 pm when I awoke and knew that I was in great trouble, I could not breath and I was starting to really panic. I put myself back on the nebulizer and had three or so doses of my medication. It didn't have any effect. I decided I should call my mother and get her over with the kids so that I could drive myself to the hospital.


By the time I got myself downstairs to wait for my mother I knew that I could wait no longer, I was starting to slip away. I rang 000 for an ambulance. My mother and the ambulance arrived at the same time. I was already slipping in and out of consciousness. As they were working on me, I suddenly felt extremely calm and not scared at all - I felt overwhelmed to tell mum to let the kids know how much I loved them and also my husband and mother. While all this is happening in my mind, the paramedics were franticly trying to save my life without harming my unborn baby.


I knew that I was dying and it didn't bother me at all I just felt so calm. At this point, I passed out and stopped breathing. I can remember feeling incredible love around me, I didn't know where it was coming from but it was all around me. I felt like I was in a tunnel, and at the top was a light. I felt like I was flying through the tunnel at incredible speed but as I was going through I could sense all the things I had done through my life and all the people I had known and loved, it was the strangest feeling.


When I got to the top, I could sense my father and his love. I could not see him but I knew that he was there, he was telling me how much he loved me and that he missed us all but he was okay. He also told me that it wasn't my time yet, that I had three children and another on the way that all needed their mother. I was very sad I wanted to stay at this beautiful place. I couldn't see anything; it just felt beautiful. I also didn't speak to my father, as it was our thoughts that were communicating.


With this I was back on my way to my body, I was traveling at incredible speeds with this amazing noise whirring through my head. As I was coming back, I could see myself in the intensive care unit with my mother and husband standing beside me crying and holding my hands. I could also see the nursing staff, paramedics and doctor all working on me. They were getting ready to intubate me. With one almighty whoosh, I was back in my body.


At the very time, that I got the sense of coming back to my body I began to vomit and regained consciousness. It was 2:30 am. I had been unconscious for two and a half hours. The first thing I said to my mother and husband was, 'I've seen the Light!' Everybody was amazed because I had been so close to death.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    March  1997

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     asthma attack  Clinical death Yes had stopped breathing for six minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  A floating soul.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed to be happening forever.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A loud roaring sound.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Yes a tunnel, where I could see all my life, but it was dark with light at the end of it.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My father.  I couldn't see him I could feel his presence we communicated with our thoughts, he told me I had to go back.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Yes, pure white light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could not see except for pure light but it just felt so beautiful.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I could sense things that had happened through my life.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Feeling the pure love, leaving my father behind.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most people were very happy to listen to it but I'm sure most felt it was just a dream, a couple of nurses were very interested

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I am positive that this experience did definitely happen to me I just wish I could remember more details of it.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kate_b_nde.html