{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karl_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Karl F Probable NDE 4214","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karl F Probable NDE 4214  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karl F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2049 Karl F Probable NDE 4214  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It will be difficult to describe all of what happened to me because it covered a good portion of my life and I will tire from this and explaining this drains me. There was a place of greater light that I wanted to go to, but could not. Two men eventually came in and told me I could not go there unless I came back. There have been books and scriptures that were word for word on these types of experiences. As events unfolded some wanted me to not come back, the two men in white wanted nothing of me but to present me with information to make my own choices.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  may 1977

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Car accident lost estimated 8 pints blood  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Car accident with loss of blood, main trauma loss of large portion of right elbow, head minor trauma, other cuts and punctures and scrapes from exiting car and it rolling on top of me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was talking to the two men in white.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was talking to the two men in white.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Everything seemed normal for where I was I did see my past very little and my future a lot.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Things were different a more complete understanding of things.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They spoke to me and others were off at a distance.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     this question if in reguards to the spiritual world yes

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     And no, at times I think life would have been much easier if it had not happened but we do not control what happens to us to some extent only our response to it.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Things were shown to me to discourage me coming back and/or as a proof of the knowledge of future events.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     There were places I could not go unless I came back.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Presbyterian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     No people have to make their own decisions not base them from what I say. I do not believe we can say what is right for me is necessarily right for you. Most truly religious events lead the same direction and therefore lead to Godly events. Unfortunately people want to win and God has already won he has merely created this for our benefit.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Mormon

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     No people have to make their own decisions not base them from what I say. I do not believe we can say what is right for me is necessarily right for you. Most truly religious events lead the same direction and therefore lead to Godly events. Unfortunately people want to win and God has already won he has merely created this for our benefit.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Mostly in regards to my life but did gain an ability to love those I would not expect to had this not happened.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I am not a different person from when I left and when I came back. Life has definitely been more difficult for me to deal with in some respects and more comforting probably in others. Many times I am grateful for the experience mostly very understanding of why we are left to not remember the spiritual from which we came.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I do not have the words to respectfully give credit to what happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Depends on what you call psychic as far as some events that were to happen in my future, yes.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it was deeply significant. I first met my first wife then and she was the only person that I saw and spoke with from my future although it was more feelings that we exchanged than actual words. I spoke to her second husband but did not actually see him directly.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Little bit less than six years. They were missionaries and my wife. I saw there light, for no better explanation, and in that light I had met them before not them specifically.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      Read articles of change from consciousness to unconscious would create hallucinations and explained things that way as time went on I was reliving my life they had shown me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see events shown me and know it is real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   If you mean events that confirm what happened to me, yes. Otherwise, no.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karl_f_probable_nde.html