{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karie_n_nde.html","mytitle":"Karie N NDE 3238","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karie N NDE 3238  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karie N NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1175  Karie N NDE  3238  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was driving along highway 290 going about seventy mph, when I saw a quick flash of a pickup truck in front of my car. I remember screaming and feeling my car hit the truck, swing around and hit the back of the truck, and land in the ditch on the side of the road. It was during this time I became unconscious. Suddenly I was up high in the sky, looking down and I could see my car and the pickup truck both in the ditch. There were two angels there with me. There was a beautiful bright light surrounding us. The angels were beautiful and I felt a sense of inner peace, that no matter what I do in life, there are beings up above who love us and watch us over us and are waiting for us to come Home. I wanted to go Home then. The angels told me that I still had a purpose to fulfill, many people to influence, that I had someone whom I was supposed to marry and have a meaningful life. They said it would be hard, that there were lots of trials, but that I would get through all of them with success. They said the world needed me right now. I was sent back into my car, into my immense pain and anguish. In my NDE I had experienced love and peace and after being sent back into my life I felt pain and anguish and sorrow.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    5/15/2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  I was driving down highway 290 going the usual speed limit (seventy mph) when a pickup truck driving the opposite direction made a left turn in front of me. The accident happened so quickly, but to me it seemed as if time was slowed down as the accident occurred, then sped up after the accident was over when I had my NDE. I suffered a broken collarbone, a shattered knee cap, a broken wrist, broken fingers and a broken nose, along with various bruises all over. I was Life-Lighted to the hospital and spent twelve hours in the emergency room and later had surgery to reconstruct my knee.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The whole time I felt extremely focused and alert. After I was sent back and became conscious I really became more aware of the garbage in my human head.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Things seemed to speed up, the event happened VERY fast, but still had extreme focus during the experience.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I experienced brightness, extreme beauty; the angels were very bright and beautiful. I could see the cars below me and the whole landscape.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I think I heard a pitch of some sort. It was loud. It sort of sounded like the hum of a computer or vacuum cleaner.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     The beings were angels. I did not know them, but I felt as if they were my guardian angels or a spirit guide and an angel. They told me about my life and how meaningful it would be and that I was needed back on Earth.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was a very bright, beautiful light that gave me a sense of inner peace and love.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Extreme sense of love and peace and beauty that I cannot describe in words.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I became aware of future events in my own life in relating to others. I don't know details, it was vague, but I am certain these things will happen, and some of them already have.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Deist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I became more spiritual, began exploring my spirituality, and became a Christian I do like to read up on psychic abilities and hypnotherapy.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became more spiritual, began exploring my spirituality, and became a Christian I do like to read up on psychic abilities and hypnotherapy.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I seemed to know all the 'answers' to all of our questions. The knowledge and answers were too big to fit into my head.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I can tell you that the people who believe me are more spiritual and open to it. Those who didn't are too analytical. I tend to stay around those who believe me and my life has been better and more positive because of it.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   It is hard to use words to express an NDE. It is as if there are no words in the English language that could express this experience. Everything happened so fast! The words that were exchanged were never spoken, we were communicating telepathically, but a lot of things were exchanged.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I have always had a sixth-sense, sometimes I know what is going to happen or what is happening to a loved one who is not with me. I also have very good intuition.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Several months. I was very scared to share this experience because I thought people would think that I was crazy. The first person I told did not believe me. He said I was lying and making it up to get attention. I have told a few others, some who have believed and some who showed some skepticism.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was probably real.     At first I found it hard to believe. It happened so fast. Then as the weeks went by, I became more and more aware that the experience was definitely real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     After the experience I had a spiritual awakening. I felt more in touch with the world and myself. I could sense things around me and I had better intuition.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karie_n_nde.html