{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karin_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Karin S NDE 6836","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karin S NDE 6836  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karin S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3411 Karin S NDE 6836  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was around 7am. I was loading a truck when a box hit my head. My body took the impact all of the way down to my toes. I remember uttering God bless my siblings that they life their feet so they may be guided on their path. Then thinking oh, I am the same. I turned to look at my little body and was aware of thought. I heard every thought and yet it was not difficult. Then I saw these glistening opal-like strings being taken on task. Each connected to the person uttering the thought held by a being on purpose of connecting.  I saw counter thought and the connection dissipated. There are no words. I heard several people in the building I was in ask for money. I laughed and it was loud and eternal. The surprise stopped me. There was a pause and then the understanding. I was a newbie. Then I was with others experiencing all of the cause and effect of me being my limited self in body. I had loved well but there was more to it than others or me, feeling loved by each other. I saw the children's book I wrote in a box. No one moved forward with it in the span of my sibling's lifetime. It just sat there. I knew I had to come back in order for it to move.  I was aware if I returned there would be pain. I thought it would take minutes to heal so I was not concerned. Just like that, I was moving toward my body wondering how I would ever fit in that planet better, let alone in a body. I fit. My head was broken. I had no idea how to do my job. I did not know how broken I was. I could not get a syringe into a feed line. I did not know why.  It's been a journey back to a functioning being. The only gift that was not taken was my ability to help others heal with my hands. So that is what I did while my brain healed. I know love is not an emotion. It just is part of being connected to everything. I no longer try to escape the pain I experience; it is only a temporary delusion.

I just experienced an episode. When I came to, I was on the floor in the bathroom laying in vomit and urine. I looked up and saw what an utter mess I made. I laughed at how silly it is to experience life like this. The vomit was actually beautiful on the walls if it weren't for the smell.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'February 13, 2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury  Other: Unknown.  A box hit my left temple.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Understanding of the rhythm in life.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Whatever I focused on is available. No time. No separate. I have yet to experience that sense of connectedness in body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time is an understanding I was taught to experience.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Limited versus limitless. It was normal. The idea of comparison did not exist.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Oh, everything is alive.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     So many there are not numbers. It did not occur to me to single out an individual. It was like being home with everyone.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It is nearer that you think. In body form I am exercising how much I can experience and stay in body form.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Just a glimpse of oh, I did not publish the book. Which sent me back to my body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Everything is eternally brilliant.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Both my life and the world. I have specific things to move forward on.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was an impulse. I was the source of the emotion which caused me to return.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   I was aware of this relationship with source. Called it God because of my up bringing.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I did not realize how programmed I was. Even the small choices were automated.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   I no longer have the gift of faith and not knowing. It is.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Beliefs melted away.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     No more dogma.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Not separate. It was open understanding. No words.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     I was aware of choosing to be daughter and sister to this family.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     There was no effort, grasping, being connected is just like our hearts beating. It just is.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I was not separate. Everyone and thing had function,  purpose, and unity.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I am here to share my gifts.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I saw why I favor certain symbols & what I was being shown.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I experienced eternity.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     It was everything and I am still learning to apply in my world.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     It's choice

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I realized that we are the love connection. Each of us has a unique connection & that coming though us is love. Love is. It's our gift to give.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I am now split. One part of me is forty five, like book learning and another part is seven and trying to understand this crazy life people live.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Uncertain   Yes I am now able to care for myself daily. I had not been able to follow most conversations. Now that I can. People think and talk about the strangest things. Where do I fit in this world?  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Feeling and words fall short and limit what is eternal.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time   I came back to a broken brain. As I heal I no longer have a sence of timeline.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     For about five years I could hear prayers.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My connection to the source, the oneness got me through a mind that did not work. The connection is enough.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Language falls short. It helps those are getting out on their own way and who are ready to hear.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   This was my third chance to leave my body. I miss being there terribly. I wonder if I will stay when given the chance again.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     With my broken mind, talking was a struggle. I spent most of my time surrendering to source.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It just is and not knowing is a gift. If you truly knew you would end your life to experience it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   When I experience expansiveness I feel I'm not separate. But nothing like it is.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am so glad you were born. I believe in you. I look forward to you awakening to the love inside of you and what becomes of it: you!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karin_s_nde.html