{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karol_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Karol S NDE 1036","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karol S NDE 1036  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karol S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						470  Karol S NDE  1036  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

When I first left my body, the first time was vivid; I saw myself leaving and did not care. There was a void for just a little bit, then, I could see myself going towards heaven. It surprised that I could see myself going there. It was as if I was walking, but my legs were not moving. I was floating. I was wearing a white gown but when I reached where I was going, I come upon at least eight people sitting in chairs in half horseshoe shape. The person in the middle had a chair that was taller than the others were. They told me it was not my time and had to go back. I did not want to go back.


Mother stated that they sent me back to help others who were unsure if they wanted to be a Christian or not. I was a miracle child. I remember coming back.  I don't remember the journey back, but I do remember hovering over the bed, saw mother crying, went and laid down on my body. Those present started screaming, 'She's alive.' It all happened in what seemed minutes. I told momma, 'You owe me a nickel, I closed the door.' Before I got back in my body I was trying to speak to them, 'Why are you crying, can't you hear me, I'm not gone.'


The second time was when the family was called and told I had passed. When they were taking me to the morgue and the sheet was pulled over me, I could see the nurse on one side and father on the other side. When I reached my hand up dad said 'She's still alive' and the nurse, Ms. Brooms, got help. The family had already been called that I had died then were called back that I was alive. There was prayer going on by all the church family.  They said it happened 3 times that I died; however, I have vivid memory of going to heaven only one time. There's more I'd like to say, but right now, I feel brain tired. If anyone feels they identify what I've been through, let me know. I have the need to share with others who have been there also.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1953

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death Tetanus was being treated as spinal meningitis.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see myself, the little blonde haired girl; I was floating rather than walking, it looked like me but with pure, white, silk gown. Didn't have the hospital gown on. I saw the hospital gown on when I floated back; mother looking out the window, curtains had big circles, blue and green. I had a clear purse with red handle hanging on my bed and everyone who visited put change in it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard voices but have a hard time now remembering them. They told me it wasn't time for me yet and had to go back. I didn't know why they were sending me back. I was fine where I was.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I was a little girl; I thought it was Jesus in the middle. They were shadows; they were dark, silhouettes dark, saw long hair, the shapes of their chairs, 3 on each side of Jesus. They discussed and said I need to go back. It wasn't time for me.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Nothing encased me. It was all free around me. Open space, all bright light. A bright huge beam of light which lasted for a short while, wasn't there when I came back, just going.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was at a panel of people with vague movement of others in the background. No end, no beginning.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karol_s_nde.html