{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_r_nde_23117.html","mytitle":"Karen R NDE 23117","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen R NDE 23117  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4136 Karen R NDE 23117  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My third child was coming fast and then something went wrong.  I remembered I was really hungry and wanted to get it over with.  Labor was very painful.  I wished the lights they had over me were not so bright. 

I came out of my body and was watching the doctors get very upset.  One said, 'We are losing her' and one dropped something.  I watched him seem very worried.  

Then I rose up to the big windows through the lights they had on me and found my self laughing.  I thought, 'Gee I can see everywhere' and then realized I had no head.

I just saw space and wondered what to do and thinking, 'I'm not hungry anymore and the pain is gone!'

I saw something far away and it was strange, like someone lying in bed and hearing Mom doing something so I would know it was her.  But I knew who it was.  The person was coming closer and I could see a Person in Blue with lights all around him.  I knew who it was. I could not see his face but I knew it was Christ Jesus, and he held out his arms to me to come to him. I knew what he wanted and said, 'Please not now, I must stay with my children.  There is no one else to care for them.' His arms went down and I began to move back to my body. 

A doctor was by my side and said, 'We almost lost you.  Can you remember what you saw?'  I told him.  He was young and had a tear in his eyes.  I found out 40 years later that he became Head of the hospital and had since passed away, but was loved by many. I was not a religious  person and only went to church a couple times as a small child. I was poor and my kids became all I ever had and knew I had to do what I promised I would.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  03-17-62

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth.       Giving Birth to third child  Doctors said I almost died; I was dead for 3 minutes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Very good

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed it was for hours but when I went back in body I realized it was only for a few moments.

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was thinking very clearly.  Without eyes, I could see everywhere and feel free and safe.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Peace

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Told in my story

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was young and open-minded.  I went with the flow.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt loved, which was rare for me at that time.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     It happened later in life.  I could see my daughter's house being flooded and called her to get Insurance and she did.  A month later, the whole neighborhood flooded and she was the only one who had insurance. Many things like that happened.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was worried about my other children.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

  After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No one believed me as a young 19 year old.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It helped my Mother and best friend not fear death anymore. Also, it helped a young mother keep a child from a rape.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was real and beautiful.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_r_nde_23117.html