{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_nde_6120.html","mytitle":"Karen NDE 6120","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen NDE 6120  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2896 Karen NDE 6120  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I don't remember the day I was hospitalized, but the days before I was knew I was really sick. During my time in hospital, I remember a few instances when my twin sister spoke to me. 

I also remember being in many different places with people who were 'helpers', and people who 'needed help'. I knew that I was very sick and felt 'stuck' between life and death. That part was a bad experience. At some point, I remember feeling like I could not continue to 'exist'. Then I was in a place that was good. I can't really describe in words how wonderful I felt. I felt like I was no longer in my body, but was still myself. It felt like I was 'light', not weightless but actual light. It was very beautiful. I was standing on a path. I first looked to my right and saw mountains in the distance and a beautiful field of flowers. To my left was a body of water with trees, and there were many birds. Everything seemed very in focus and clear. I felt an attachment to all of it, like 'oneness' with my surroundings. There was a gate at the end of the path. I was looking at the gate and thinking how wonderful I felt and how relieved I was to be there. It felt like I was somewhere I knew and it was where I belonged. I was VERY HAPPY.

I then saw someone walking toward me from the left. I recognized the male figure and we both laughed when we first looked at each other. I had the sensation that he was as happy to see me, as I was to see him. We talked, and from what I can remember discussed that this was where I was from and that I was home. I cannot describe the feeling. Joy, elation, happiness - no words that I know can describe it. Everything made perfect sense! We started walking to the gate and were talking the whole time. I cannot remember the conversation, but I know we talked a lot. After some amount of time (I have no idea how long) we stopped and he said 'Look at the gate and tell me what you see'.  I looked and was no closer but knew I had been walking towards the gate for a while. He then smiled and asked 'You know what that means?' With this, he smiled and seemed happy. I said 'Yes, I am not finished'. We were both still happy.

The next thing I remember is waking up in the hospital. I was very confused for several days (I think), but remembered the experience pretty soon after I became conscious. My recovery period took months. The experience helped me get through it. It was the most significant thing that has ever happened to me. I am the same person but I view life and death differently now.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Respiratory failure, major organ failure and systemic blood infection.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I totally understood everything. It is hard to explain.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't know what you are asking. Physical consciousness: No idea. Experience Consciousness: When I first saw the male figure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no real concept of time or how much time was elapsing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was clear, precise and effortless to see. I felt more like the images were part of me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Again, seemed like sounds were a part of me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I think the male was my Great Grandfather but also Jesus.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was part of an unearthly light as was everything/part of the experience.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Elation, joy, happiness and relief. No negative emotions at all.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     It all made perfect sense and I remembered that I had felt that way before.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     There was a gate, but I didn't get all the way there.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I knew that I was not finished with life on earth, but I didn't even consider that there was another option. It was just that I was not finished. It did not make me sad or happy, it just was.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Methodist but had not been attending church in past several years

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't believe in any specific religion.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   No particular religion.....spiritulist???

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I believed there was an afterlife. As a nurse I was always interested in patients who were in near death situations and would ask some of them if they had had one. All that I asked (< 5 ) said yes and said it was a positive experience. I never expected I would have one...ever. I was and am still amazed that it was so wonderful.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Please see narrative above.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I believe the male I encountered was Jesus in my Greatgrandfathers form  , but I think we are all part of what I now consider "Jesus" I felt like I was at the time

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I knew I had been there before.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt that most certianly.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Everything is part of "God" EVERYTHING

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I know have spiritual connections with other people. People I know and people that I don't know. It is hard to explain but I feel more in tune with their thoughts/emotions.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     That we all have a purpose at all times.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Yes, I was where I will go after death.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain     I dont think so, but this is a long survey, so I might have missed some parts. I remember laughing, but not like funny joke laughing, like joyful laughing. : )

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Yes, all experiences are necessary.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is always in us and with us.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     My father recently passed away and I knew that he was going to be where I had been. I miss him, but am happy he is there. I don't like being around people who are negative or have bad 'energy' and avoid them or try not to let them affect my spiritual well-being.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Some people I try not to be around now. I avoid negative energy in people. Some are family members. I am closer to some people, but that could be because everyone thought I was going to die.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It’s just hard to put into words that describe how it felt.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   Other experiences suringthe time I was so sick are not as clear, and have in fact faded since that time.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I believe that I have encountered 'angels' several times since my experience. All were people I did not know. It seemed like we recognized each other and talked about spiritual matters. I also feel more in tune to people's emotions/intentions.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The laughter when I first saw the male figure, pure joy, and the feeling of being connected to everything - part of the light.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I first shared with my twin sister who somehow knew it had happened. She believes it happened. I have shared with a few others, most find it interesting.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had spoken with patients who had NDEs. I don't think it affected mine.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew it happened and still believe it happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It did happen. I know it did. I don't know why it happened to me, but it did.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I think I can recognize people who have had NDEs and I think they recognize me.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_nde_6120.html