{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Karen K NDE 199","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen K NDE 199  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Karen K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						668  Karen K NDE  199  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 After being in a motorcycle accident during which I received a brain injury, I went into cardiac arrest.  At some point, I was in another place.  No injury, no recollection of a journey, no past.  Just standing in a room where there were people playing bingo.  My grandmother was there.  She stopped playing, and we spoke for a bit.  While we were chatting, a babysitter I had as a young girl came over to say hello to me.  She had already met my grandmother. The last thing my grandmother said to me was, 'You have to go back. There are still things you need to do.'  Since at that time I was not aware of anything in the past, before I saw that room, I questioned her: what did she mean 'go back'?  She kept repeating that I had to go back. I began to get unreasonably angry, and was shouting, 'Go back? Go back where?!'  Her voice and the room began to drift away, like a fading out.


The next memory I have was waking up in the hospital, my mother had made it there by then.  I told her about what I had seen, and she did confirm for me that my grandmother (when alive) did used to love playing bingo.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    October 3, 1988

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Accident    Clinical death I died in a motorcycle accident.  I suppose that might be considered life threatening?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  My body was with me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      It seemed as real as life.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time was different.  Still linear, but not like regular time.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Nothing that was out of place for the setting.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My grandmother, and a babysitter I used to have.

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     That's the hard part; there aren't any words to really describe where my grandmother was.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   

What is your religion now?      Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I always wondered what happens when you die, and didn't want to believe in God without proof.  After, I knew what would happen to me, so that fear was removed.  I also had the proof I wanted to believe in something greater than myself.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The feeling, the way time was different.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Just once.  While I was still in intensive care, I spoke with the guy in the bed next to me in a dream.  He was brain dead, and on life support, and he begged me to tell them he was ready to die.  He also told me he could hear what the doctors and nurses were saying, although he could not respond. They had hurt his feelings, and were not treating him like a person. He showed me some of his life, and was a really nice guy.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Dying was bad.  Being dead was great.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Most people don't believe me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_k_nde.html