{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_h_nde_3570.html","mytitle":"Karen H NDE 3570","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen H NDE 3570  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen H NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1604 Karen H NDE 3570  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					In the last couple of years before Christmas 2006, I'd lost my husband, home, horses, dogs, and my car. The last two days before Christmas 2006, I lost my job.

I was fired about 10:00 am. I gathered my things from my desk, marched to my car and drove to the house where I'd rented a room. I swallowed many pills. After vomiting once or twice, I wrote a note and lay down to die.

After that, I remember two things. The first was my landlord and his son standing in the room. My landlord was trying to wake me up by yanking my arm out of its socket (why? I have no idea). The second was presumably at the emergency room where the doctor rubbed his knuckle on my sternum trying to get me to wake up and tell him what I'd taken. I promptly told him to F%#* off and went back under.

During the time, I was out, I remember being in a pitch-black void, with me glowing softly within it. I felt complete relief, love, warmth, security, acceptance and many other things that I can't really describe. I was able to surrender to this darkness without fear. Since I don't have family or children, I had a feeling that it was okay that I stay in that void forever; everything would have gone on without me just fine.

I woke up some time later; I have no idea how long. I was very angry at the doctor and other folks at being brought back. I even lashed out at the emergency room doctor who came to me and tried to shame me for 'probably frying my liver'. To this day, I'm still angry about being brought back.

During my stay at the mental ward, several nurses came to me when I was sitting by myself and asked me what I'd seen. When I told them about the void and how it felt, they seemed disappointed. Maybe they wanted to hear about a bright light?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'December 24, 2006'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Suicide overdose.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious and alert the entire time I was in the void.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     My experience in the void seemed to last a lifetime, and at the same time lasted only a second.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I have very, very bad eyes (almost legally blind) and I could see myself and my 'glow' very clearly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no noise to speak of.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I really don't know - I went from consciousness into the void. If I passed through any tunnel at all, I don't remember it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Like I've written above, I felt warmth, security, love, acceptance, etc.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I've gone from being certain that Christianity was the answer, to being much more accepting of all religions and ideals.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Since this experience, I have come to the idea that Christianity is not the only answer.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I've gone from being certain that Christianity was the answer, to being much more accepting of all religions and ideals.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I tend to tell people the good things I think about them, (like their doing a good job, they look great today, stuff like that). I tend to be able to keep my mouth shut better when negative thoughts enter my head.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I was slightly empathic before. After the experience, I have become slightly empathic with people, especially animals. Thoughts get into my head about people, and then those thoughts come true, usually days or weeks later.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with one close friend while I was in the hospital, but he didn't want to hear it. A second friend of mine let me tell the whole story, and lovingly accepted it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I'd read about NDE's when I was in high school.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I wanted desperately to go back to the void. But for some reason I can't see myself committing suicide to get there. That's a no-no.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I currently view it as a rare gift. I am able to help those I come into contact with that death is not a horror but a natural part of life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Actually, you guys are doing a great job! I visit your website often.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_h_nde_3570.html