{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_fde.html","mytitle":"Karen FDE 6752","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen FDE 6752  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			3365 Karen FDE 6752  					  				  			      			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had always been fearful of storms, especially severe ones, as I grew up watching my mother fear them.  I was just getting over my fear of them.  I also had a history of depression.  I remember thinking I didn't care if I lived or died that day.  It was a totally clear blue sky, not a cloud in it, or any to be seen anywhere.  It sounded like a nasty storm was headed our way.  It sounded like bombs going off in the direction we usually get our storms from.  I had been using the hose out back and had turned it off at the nozzle, but not the house, so I went to turn it off at the house, thinking it shouldn't be on there.  I believe I let our dog out prior to the storm.  I had just taken a few steps away from the stairs in our backyard. 

At that moment, I heard a crack.  At the same time, there was a blue, white, ball of light by my head.  I immediately turned to go back in to the house. I was looking down on my body in the rain with the mud splattering on me.  I saw my sister running up the driveway, looking at my body, not knowing what to do. 

That's when I saw my life flash before me, from when I was young on up.  I also saw my grandfather standing by me with the same smile he always had.  He didn't say a word.  He had passed years before.  I felt such utter peace, serenity, and tranquility like never before.  I felt a perfect warmth, like I was totally safe and taken care of.  All was perfectly ok.  I felt total calm, like never before.  I asked the being, 'Jesus??' What my purpose was, I was immediately shown two young blond girls who were playing, and they came running over to me.  The girls were about 5 and 7 years old and were wearing white, sleeveless dresses. 

We didn't speak with words; we must have used telepathy.  I was then given a choice if I wanted to return or not, I couldn't decide, thought of my parents, and told Jesus to make the decision.  I was immediately back to earth, in the house, with the dog inside.  I stood frozen in place, trembling, shaking. I couldn't move for 15 minutes; I timed it by looking at the clock.  

I don't remember going into the house, and have no idea how the dog got in.  The stormed raged, and came so fast, and furious.  My sister came in shortly after that and said I was as white as a ghost was, and my hair was standing on end.  I noticed my leg from the ankle up my calf had mud splattered on it.  Maybe from where the hose was leaking?  After, I was not afraid of death at all, and wanted to let other people know not to be afraid.  I was actually looking forward to it. 

I came out of it thinking we are all connected on this planet, it doesn't matter our species, color, race or how much money we have.  I was much calmer, but still didn't know my purpose.  I have no idea who those blond girls were, as I have two blond boys.  I did have three miscarriages though. I have been a vegetarian for 27 years, I just can't be cruel to something we are so connected to that have the same feelings and emotions we do. 

 My depression has gotten much better.  I feel drawn to the medical field. It definitely changed my whole perspective on life; it also took me a while to tell people about my experience.  I read every book I can on the subject, and find it fascinating. I like to attend Angelina Diana's readings on the other side.  I felt the need to volunteer after my NDE. I also thought about hospice care.  I seem to have stronger ESP after the episode, some incredibly strong.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July or August 1983?

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was almost struck by lightning just off my front steps.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  When I saw my body in the rain and mud, my sister came running up to me and didn't know what to do.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Speaking with Jesus, I suppose.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time was hard to describe there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I'm not aware of any difference.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not aware of any difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my deceased grandfather.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I remember a warmth, brightness, perfect.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I didn't see much. Just felt the warmth, and soft light.  I definitely went up.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt helplessness. In all I felt very neutral like I was just going along.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Much stronger belief.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Lutheran currently attending church every Sunday for 7 or so years. Didn't really believe in God until my NDE.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I didn't really believe in Jesus.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A strong belief in God and Jesus, a need to find a good church, boy did we. We travel an hour or so round trip.  Our pastor wrote a book about himself and Jesus encountering everything together.  'Fall Guy'

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I remember seeing Jesus just as we would picture him.  He was calm, peaceful, and dressed in white.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   I'm pretty sure I saw Jesus.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt that we were all connected.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I SAW God, or Jesus.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are here to help one another.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Seeing my grandfather.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I have stronger ESP, more empathy and connectedness with the world.  I understand we are all here to help others, believe in a higher being, and life after death.  We had ghosts for a long time, prayed about it, they left.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Calming more people, and helping them not to be afraid of dying.  Trying to matter to people, make them happy.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember what happened very clearly, it's still very emotional for me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Strong ESP at times. I felt terror as I was walking down our hall, I knew it had something to do with my young niece and sister. It stopped me cold, my heart raced, I felt doom.  This was on a Sunday.  On Wednesday, my sister couldn't find her toddler daughter.  She saw her face down in the in-ground pool. Luckily, a woman swimming found her and saved her.  I dreamt of a car on fire on the highway.  The one time a year I drove the highway, the next day there was a car on fire, just as I pictured it.  When I go into grocery stores, sometimes the food will fly out of the case, even if the case is flat, not angled.  Other people have seen this and commented.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just that God does exist, we are here for a reason, and I wish I knew why I'm here.  It's like God was saying to me, 'You don't care if you die, I could take you in a heartbeat.' It's going to be wonderful when we get to the other side.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The same day for my sister and mother.  They didn't show much reaction.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Must have heard about them in the news and books. No, just comparing.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It had to be real.  All the other experiences worldwide were similar.  It happened to me, it wasn't made up.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Feelings haven't changed.  More studies have been done proving it.  I don't need studies, it's real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I don't like to explain all my answers, already gave the information many times. No.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_fde.html