{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_d_nde_3327.html","mytitle":"Karen D NDE 3327","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen D NDE 3327  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1173  Karen D NDE  3327  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

The day it happened I remember writing a note to my husband's parent's pastor telling him to watch over my husband. I knew the end was near. I remember looking at my husband and seeing the anguish on his face, it hurt my heart. Then I was in what I can only describe as a hallway but it seemed fluorescent white but no lights were in it. I sensed my mother, not like seeing her here but the best way to describe it is like she was all around me and through me, like a mist but more real. A very wonderful feeling of peace, no stress, no worries, no pain, no issues, but this enormous peace, words fail the experience. It was like we communicated without words, just a knowing, and I knew I had to come back, I did not want to. I felt assured at that time that, and the way that I have said it to anyone I tell, it was like we are (visualize a large spot, then superimposed over that spot the same spot) here, but also here! That God IS - I to this day am ready to go back!!! Now for the real interesting part! I saw my husband when I came back, the first words I said to him was I had to come back for you. I have to tell you part of his life for you to truly understand this. My husband lost his son who was riding a bike to a drunk driver.  My husband has been terrified of death since that time. Last year, my husband was diagnosed with stage IV cancer; he is terminal and has months to live. I believe with all that I am that I had the experience to share it with my husband and others to help them to not be afraid.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    2003

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  I had a very unusual disease that had me in the hospital thirty-eight days. Bi-lateral obliterating organizing pneumonia (BOOP). Slung biopsy was taken to identify what is because no medication was effective. Doctors told my husband I would probably not survive the biopsy but it was necessary to determine what was wrong.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Within the presence of my mother.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Within the presence of my mother.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time there isn't relevant.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    Much more clarity.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Hearing was different, as I said communication was not like here, it was more of a knowing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I didn't pass through it, more like stayed in a hallway of light.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     As I said the presence of my mother all around me. She expressed without words that I had to return. On question 20, you asked did I see deceased spirit. My mother is deceased but it was more like an enveloping presence.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Like very brilliant fluorescent light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peaceful, joyful alert.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I knew I came back for my husband, it was years later I felt my experience would help him with his dying, but I always felt I came back to assist or help or do something for him.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That GOD IS.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The intensity, overwhelming awe, and feeling of a peace that to this day I cannot truly explain, also the feeling of regret that I had to come back.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The peace. It was the one thing I can't put into words correctly and the one thing I long to return to.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Hours.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I viewed it as hope of things to come when we leave this earth. That that place is more real than this one will ever be.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I know without a doubt it was real, I share it because I know it to be truth even when people think I am crazy. If it was not true why would I subject myself to speculation. I know my experience will help my husband transition through his cancer, even if he doesn't understand truly he knows I do not lie.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_d_nde_3327.html