{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Karen G NDE 2239","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen G NDE 2239  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						771  Karen G NDE  2239  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

It all started Tuesday May 10th; I had persistent flu and badly-treated asthma. I went to the doctor because I contracted bronchitis and he prescribed a syrup, antibiotics, inhalator and a corticoid injection. On Wednesday 11th, I woke up as usual; I had my medicine and a lady came to give me the injection. After she left, five minutes went by and I started to have breathing problems - I called my mother as best I could - she was getting out of the shower and I told her I could not breathe.

I managed to dress and my best friend called me to have breakfast with her - she was near my house and I was to start work at 13:00. As I could not respond to her, my mother did and told her I need help. We went down in the elevator and the last thing I remember was the face of my friend. Upon leaving my house, I fainted due to lack of oxygen to my brain.

And here comes my experience, after my breathing stopped. The hospital nearest to my house is about a fifteen to twenty minute drive, so I arrived the Santa Maria Clinic with respiratory collapse and no pulse. I opened my eyes and saw myself in a tunnel of lights - diffuse and beautiful lights - I was in some kind of a train. I did not see myself but knew that I was riding leaning back in a train at high speed. I was very frightened of the speed, the lights passing by very fast by my side. I saw thousands of light spirals and thought, 'I am dying.' I felt my body glued to the seat and saw a very strong light with a golden frame at the end of the tunnel. I saw some Roman columns with the infinity symbol.

As I approached it, the light became stronger. I was frightened because I knew that if I passed through the entry-way I would not be coming back. Thousands of voices were talking to me at the same time and I repeated to myself, 'Not yet. I am dying. Not yet. Not Yet.' and I was anguished because I did not want to go to the light. In the meanwhile, I tried to hush the voices that talked and talked to me. I could not recognize any of them but they said let go, abandon yourself, I did not want to do it. When they gave me adrenaline and revived me with electroshock the train stopped and went backwards at the same speed until a voice told me (a voice coming from behind me), 'Not yet. It is not your moment yet.' The train started to slow down until it stopped completely. My whole body arched and fell back on the hospital bed. I opened my eyes and said to the nurse, 'I died.' She took my hand and said, 'Yes, but you are now here.'

Afterwards I learned that some 'carabineros' [Translator note: in Chile it is like the police] escorted me to the clinic. If I had arrived five minutes later, I would have passed through the portal - the light.

My mother did not see them as carabineros but as angels. In fact, everything happened in order for me to be here telling this experience. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11 de mayo de 2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Allergic reaction     Ataque severo de asma con obstrucción bronquial y paro respiratorio  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Severe asthma and bronchitis - stopped breathing.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In every moment.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     It could be a second, but the passing through the tunnel seemed to last forever.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The voices; sound were clearer than normal.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through a tunnel of light - of lights - like when a hallucinogenic drug is taken, a lot of diffuse, strong colors.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At the end of the tunnel - in an entry-way with Greek or Roman columns - they were enormous but I saw them coming near.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, anguish, sorrow.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have read the Bible, want to go to confession, and get more involved with the church. I feel I still have something to experience or live.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have read the Bible, want to go to confession, and get more involved with the church. I feel I still have something to experience or live.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am less afraid of death and more attached to the people who love me.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The passing through the tunnel, the speed feeling.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Once I woke up, I recalled it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       You are aware that you are dying. You know, I had the sensation that I have gone through that tunnel before, that is why I knew what was after the entry-way if I went through the light. That is why I did not want to go but the train was taking me against my will - it was my will that prevented me from dying, my will to live and breathe.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_g_nde.html