{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_h_nde_4882.html","mytitle":"Karen H NDE 4882","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen H NDE 4882  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2490 Karen H NDE 4882  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been working on a GAP year (a year between finishing school and starting university) and had travelled from Australia to the UK to work. I had fallen ill and found that every time I sat up, I'd faint.  So, I was sent and admitted to the hospital. When I saw a specialist, he made a comment that he thought the intensive care unit should be informed of my condition and that I needed to have cardiac monitoring on the ward.

That night, I was in an observation room behind the nurse's station hooked up to a cardiac monitor. The nurses had pulled the curtains across so that the lights from the nurse's station wouldn't disturb my sleep but so that the cardiac monitor was on their side of the curtain. I went to sleep.

At some time that night I became 'aware' of the cardiac monitor making a loud continuous alarming noise and thought to myself that's the noise those machines make when you're dead. I knew it was my machine making the noise but it didn't worry me. I had this calm and relaxing sense of a beautifully all-encompassing love, peace, and joyfulness. It was a complete fulfillment but in a quiet, gentle serene way.

I saw the third year student nurse who was on duty that night come running to the door. I was looking down over the top of the curtain rail. I clearly saw her look at the monitor and a look of fear came over her face. She quietly said, 'Oh my God' to herself and then ran forward pulling the curtain out of her way. As she did that, she yelled out, 'Karen!' With the call of my name, I felt a huge rush and then felt like I slammed back into my body - it felt like I hit the back of the bed hard.

The instant I reentered my body, the pain in my chest was excruciating. The only way to describe it was like a herd of elephants stampeding on my chest. I couldn't breathe the pain was ferocious. I saw the hand of that student nurse go over the top of my head and hit the cardiac arrest alarm. The next thing I knew the lights were on, there were lots of people working over the top of me and doing a lot of painful things to me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Insulin dependent diabetic. When I was bolted back into my body, Blood sugar registered sixteen.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Visiting my step-mother.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Visiting my step-mother.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew I was somewhere else.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was so clear and simple, very bright light.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Step-mother in her apartment. I did not know her first husband nor was introduced to him. Telepathic.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light radiated from the apartment and my step-mother.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Her apartment.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace. Understanding. Acceptance. Love. Compassion.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Premonitions or perceptions about life events. Sixth sense.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more aware of my own spiritual being. My body is just that. It is my spirit that leaves.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more aware of my own spiritual being. My body is just that. It is my spirit that leaves.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I found my own purpose on earth.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more aware of relationships.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I get premonitions, sixth sense, or perceptive more than I had before this experience.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        She was serving me tea, with a drop of lemon and Splenda. This angel, my stepmother knew a lot about me including giving me two Splenda in my tea. I thought it was interesting our flow of conversation. All subjects were okay with her. I talked with her telepathically. She read my thoughts. When I walked to the doorway, I wanted to stay longer. It seemed I spent some time with her. I left quickly.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Mixed reactions. Most understood the intercession of an Angel. Others were more concern about my health. One thought I was going to the dark side. I think the majority that responded to me felt relieved that heaven served tea, lemon and Splenda to me. It was a relief to know God is with us.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just heard about it and did not pay any attention to it, until my own happened.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Sometimes, I see the Angel and see the brilliant white light; I hear her voice and it comes across comforting especially when I am struggling with an issue. Her voice reminds me that I am not alone - We are with you.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It still is real because I hear the voice either through others or out of the blue.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I see the brilliant white light on several occasion.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was incredible. I wanted to tell my story.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Right now I have no additional thoughts.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_h_nde_4882.html