{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_g_mother_nde.html","mytitle":"Karen G Mother NDE 5304","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen G Mother NDE 5304  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen G Mother NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  			2788 Karen G Mother NDE 5304  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My dad was in Korea. He was an engineer in the military and they were there planning some reconstruction projects. I was a baby, approximately 8-9 months old. My mother was having chronic problems after giving birth through a C-Section and the doctors brought her in to have a hysterectomy. My dad was overseas, as I said. 

She said she remembered going to sleep on the table and then she was suddenly looking down from the ceiling at her body.  She saw people running around acting like they were trying to revive her. She was calmly watching, though a little confused why they were doing it. She felt detached from her body and totally at peace. My mother said everything seemed to start getting further and further away as she went up and up towards the ceiling.  It got fuzzy as she seemed to be passing through the ceiling and she could look up at a light. But it wasn't a LIGHT.  It was like an openness; an awakening that her brain registered as a light. She said it felt it was like going home and she felt really good. But then she started to panic. My dad was in Korea and she was worried about who would take care of me on earth. The next thing she knew, she was slammed back into her body. She used the words 'SLAMMED' and 'out-of-body experience' and 'light' very clearly every time she told me the story.

She said the doctors said that she was flat lined for 4 minutes. She told her experience to a nurse. At this time, she had never ever heard anyone recite a story like this in any fashion in the media or anywhere else. She thought her experience was completely unique. The nurse responded by saying she has heard stories just like that from many people. I feel like sharing this is important since you are collecting experiences

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   She was having a surgery that involved having a hysterectomy because of some kind of cancerous growth.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I am not sure how to respond to this one.  My mom said she felt like she was as conscious during the experience as she is when she is awake.  She did not feel asleep at all.  She felt she was right there and watching the people try to revive her, like she was a person attached to the ceiling.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     She said she was flat lined for 4 minutes but everything seemed to happen faster.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     She said that as she went up, things got fuzzier and she said maybe it was because she was going through the ceiling.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    She said it seemed to be normal in the operating room, but she was somewhere else completely when she left her body.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like a really wide well and the light was at the top of the well.  I think that is how she described it.  But the well itself could have been like outer space and she was moving really fast through it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   But it was like a light that was made of God; like it was a massive mass of energy but it was alive.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy, peaceful and then panic when she thought no one would be there to take care of me, then she felt slammed back into her body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   She was a Lutheran.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   She said she felt like she was going to go into the light and understand everything.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain She was very spiritual already and I think it just convinced her more.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    She shared it with her family. The nurse was the first person.  She shared it with me many times and I would ask her to recall it a lot growing up.  The nurse was respectful and thought it was amazing.  Most of the relatives assume she was about to ascend to Heaven and came back to be a mom.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   She had NONE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     She was a religious person and believed in Heaven and God. She was open to the idea of us all being energy at the end of the universes under the control of some greater force - an all positive and loving force. God, as we call him.  She always strongly felt we would end up going somewhere.  Seeing the light and raising up were ideas she could get from reading her Bible. But the most astonishing thing she felt was that she was on the ceiling for a little bit watching doctors work on her. It was very real and vivid and completely unexpected.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     She believed the story the same until she died.  She had almost died. I had her live with me to recuperate and she got really healthy and strong. Then I went to Florida to put her house up for sale and bring my step-dad back. He has Parkinson's Disease.  When she got there, she had a small stroke, and was put in the hospital. She underwent surgery to open her carotid artery. Her doctor here had wanted to do that surgery in stages and not all at once. The doctors in Florida did not call her doctors up here.  They opened up the artery all the way and blood filled her brain.  She had a massive stroke. She died in 12 hours.  So, I try to imagine what she went through those last few days of her life as I was trying to scurry around to get on a plane to get down there.  It was maddening.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   I don't think she did.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       During my life with her, she was always the kind of person who could feel when I was in trouble.  I hate to say she had ESP but there were things she did and felt that were definitely otherworldly.  I just called them mother's intuition.  But there are several times in my life she showed up because something told her to and it saved my life.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The only suggestion is that I spent so long typing on it. I guess it's great to be thorough and have a really good understanding of what I am trying to share.  I hope you use this even though I am not writing it firsthand.  If I had seen this site before she died, I would have told her she needed to put this on here because hers is JUST YET ANOTHER clear experience investigators can use as proof NDEs are real.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_g_mother_nde.html