{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kanwal_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Kanwal Probable NDE 6408","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kanwal Probable NDE 6408  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kanwal Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3142 Kanwal Probable NDE 6408  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had lost my father many years prior to this incident.  My pet dog had also died. I had been very attached to my father and I had loved him very much. I used to cry a lot for him. He had suffered a heart attack. At the time of his death, I had been with him, and he had died holding my hands. It was the first time I had ever seen a person die. Though time passed, the void my father left within me was never filled and I remained sad. During the year 2003, I was spending most of my time meditating and saying prayers. 

My experience started during the night in December 2004, when I was sleeping beside my mother. We used to share the same bed. Around midnight, I began to feel breathless and uneasy around my chest. It progressed to feeling as if something heavy had landed on me and I was being choked. I couldn't move my body, cry out, or even lift my arms or hands to reach out and touch my mother for help.  Within moments, I rose up to the ceiling and found myself looking down at my lifeless body lying on the bed beside my mother. I felt very light, as though I had no weight and was floating in midair. 

Soon five people came to me.  They were not the usual kind of people, but were slender, pure-white human figures wearing black half-masks. They were smiling. Two of them caught me by one arm and the other three caught me by the other arm, and they flew me out of my house, down the road and across the village. On the way, I saw an old lady and a man, both wearing white garments, and both of them traveling in the same direction that I was being taken. Soon the lady and the man disappeared. 

My bearers flew with me at very high speeds over great distances. I passed many green lands, mountains, springs and bridges. I saw no one. It seemed to be some other land where no human beings lived. At last, we reached a tunnel, which we then passed through. At the end of the tunnel, there was a huge door that seemed to open automatically as we arrived. We went through and then my carriers paused and descended a bit.  I saw a huge queue of people all standing, mostly in white clothes. There were men and women, young and old, even children, all standing in line. Seeing them, I said to one of the guys that flew me here, 'It seems that something is going on here, and God knows when my turn will come up.' They smiled at me, again took hold of my arms, and flew with me, putting me down at the very head of the line. I looked and saw that I was standing directly in front of an old man with a long beard.

There was a dazzling white light surrounding him. He was sitting at a huge desk and there was a very large register on the desk in front of him. I cannot describe that register. It was so big. It was bigger than the village I come from. The old man was pure white in color, his face a bit red, and he had a flowing beard. He seemed to be writing something. Looking at me, he opened the register to a page, and I saw my name written on it. He didn't talk or say anything, but he made a sign with his hands to my masked carriers to take me to an adjacent room. 

The five carriers disappeared and I was left in that room alone.  Then there was a man standing in front of me and he held a cup of water in his hand. He offered me a drink of it. I drank a sip but began to cough and vomit, saying that this water tasted too bitter. The man ordered me to drink it, saying that if I didn't drink, I would be stuck here and would not be able to go forward.  I choked down all the water and then that man disappeared and another door opened. Going through that door, I found a man standing beside a pond that he requested I bathe in. I did so, but when I got out of the pond, this man, too, had vanished.

Another door opened and there were now two men standing there with beautiful clothes for me to wear.  I was about to start putting them on, when the five men who had carried me from my home appeared. Again, they firmly lifted me by the arms, leaving the clothes behind, and brought me in front of that same white-bearded old man with his register and pen. He then told the five men that they had brought me before my time, and that I still had many things yet to do on Earth. Then he ordered me to help all living beings on Earth.  He said that when my service duty was finished, I would be allowed to come back here again, otherwise not. 

The five men flew with me again, and again I saw myself moving back through the tunnel by which we had come, and traveling onward, through those vast green lands. At this moment, I realized that I was a dead person and this was my soul that they were carrying and this place was some kind of destination for the dead. As soon as I realized this, I asked one of the guys, 'Is this the land of the dead?' One of them nodded. I felt happy and said, 'Then my father must be here,' and I requested to see my father before they took me back to my home. Three of them looked angry about my request and shook their heads, 'No' to the other two. One of the two, on my left side, was very friendly with me and he touched me and nodded, 'Yes.'

All five then turned and started flying with me towards another part of that vast land. All was still and quiet.  No human being was to be seen. Then far away, I saw my father, looking very fragile and tired, with his hair rough and he was with one of my cousins. I felt happy seeing my father and called to him loudly. But he didn't look at me. The five men then told me that in this land no one could hear sound. They can only get each other's attention through touch, and then they can recognize the other soul. They advised me that there was no use in shouting loudly here, as no one would be able to hear me. 

One of the men flew away from me and within the blink of an eye returned with two huge flowers. I had never in my life seen anything like these flowers. They were such enormous flowers with such huge stems! They told me that here all the fruits and flowers are very big like this. They again took me by the arms and within seconds, I was back in my home again.

The scene I came home to was terrible, and a bit scary to me.  My mom, whom I had left sleeping near me, was awake and was looking at my body, and crying very hard. She was shaking me and calling to my brother to call a doctor at once, exclaiming that I was dead. But some energy pushed me back into my body and I felt my body coming back to life again, gaining consciousness. I felt as though I was wakening from a deep sleep, and I opened my eyes and looked at my mom. I asked her why she was crying and she told me she had thought I was dead. She had felt no pulse and no breathing. Then I got up from the bed and narrated the whole experience to her.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2nd December 2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?        Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw my mom crying when my soul was still outside the body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Within seconds we traveled miles, time was sure faster.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     At that time my senses seem to be more alert and active.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    At that time my senses seem to be more alert and active.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I passed through a tunnel and at the end a door opened.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my father, and also many people standing on queue etc.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a pure, white light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt happy, lighter and as if there was no bondage of any kind.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I understood everything when I realized that this place was a place of the dead.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     The service towards living beings which I am still doing in whatever way and means I can.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was about to change clothes.  Religious men have interpreted this as being that the clothes represented a new form of life which I was about to start.  I was sent back, as I needed to complete some tasks.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   SIKH

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   SIKH

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I saw those five men, and interacted with them.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Many things are to be desribed which was told to me by those five men.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes there is some superpower/God who controls the whole universe.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes My family seems to be more respectful and loving toward me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is difficult to explain all this to any human being or any man or woman. What I saw and heard, only a rare person might have seen or heard. What I experienced was quite mystical, spiritual and it was a happy, very light-feeling state, much lighter than what I am now.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with a few people, and a few religious men. Many were influenced, gained information and knowledge, and it changed their lives.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   After the Near Death Experience tasks were ordered and some parts of them have been done and that too was very mystic.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kanwal_probable_nde.html