{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Karen A NDE 4450","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen A NDE 4450  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2227 Karen A NDE 4450  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was the passenger in a car.  Without warning or anticipation of the automobile accident, I found myself in a void; complete darkness. I had no sensory feedback: complete silence, darkness, no smells, no feelings, and yet a very strong awareness of only myself - as though I was watching myself from a close distance. My body was perfect, undamaged. I was overwhelmed by the total aloneness and had but one thought, 'This dark place I am in cannot be heaven and, therefore, I must get out.' Since my consciousness and body had been separated, I could not move my body. All that was me, was this very powerful consciousness that could will things to happen. At that moment, I awakened not knowing where I was or what had happened. That should be the end of the story but it was not. 

Later that same night I questioned why this happened to me in a rhetorical kind of way (to myself). A loud clear voice said, 'I was there,' the implication of which was 'I was there; that is why you are alive.' Because I have a metabolism issue with most pain medications, anesthesia, etc., I was taking nothing for the tremendous pain I felt. I was not affected by any external influence. Additionally, the pain I was in vanished and I fell fast asleep as though nothing had happened at all. I wasn't even astonished by the voice. It was so soothing; calming it was as if I had no other choice but to sleep. I spent the next two years sleeping in fits and starts due to my injuries but that one first night I slept like a baby!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'Sept 4, 2005'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       This is a hard question. Although, unconscious I had a heightened sense of the power of my consciousness. My body was unable to react but the intangible me was very powerful.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not pass. There was nothingness. Only my body and my consciousness, which were separated. And yet, I was not helpless. My consciousness had more power than my body. My consciousness saved my body from floating in this void.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see nothing in this darkness except for me. It wasn't as though I was bathed in light, I simply could see myself by an act of my will.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear NOTHING. There was profound silence.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In complete darkness I could see myself in every dimension. There was only me and nothing else.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Panic. This was a place that was foreboding. I wasn't suppose to be there. I had to escape. I had NO sensory feedback.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Always been a believer but not a 'do-er'. I participate in many activities in both personal and public life that I previously ignored or didn't go out of my way to do.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Always been a believer but not a 'do-er'. I participate in many activities in both personal and public life that I previously ignored or didn't go out of my way to do.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a personal relationship with God. I'm not afraid of Him anymore!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The voice of God.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The voice. Never before. Never since.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About eight hours. Not surprised. I considered it a miracle. Felt as though I was saved to do a great work.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   My father had a near death experience when he was being resuscitated after a heart attack. He was a VERY UNLIKELY person to have such an experience. His was more traditional - being separated from his body and hovering over the gurney and watching the attendants working on him while being drawn to a light.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Who are we to question what is possible?! We live in a world of four dimensions yet quantum physics tells us there are at least eleven measurable dimensions. A black hole has more measurable energy than our sun and yet it is invisible to our eyes. So, why the heck not!! Yes, I believe in God and an afterlife but I never imagined myself to be anything but part of a greater whole. I never thought of myself as having power over my own life and death. I thought it was a God choice and, although, I believe God is Omni-present, I really never thought my life was significant enough to be on His radar!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's life changing and a conformation that God is with us - all of us - and that we have more power over a bad situation than we think we have. He really is watching and we need to live accordingly. We are not alone and who we are is not our appearance/body. We are so much more than that. Our bodies are the tools of our minds/consciousness.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Your questionnaire is a bit long but very user friendly.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_a_nde.html