{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_b_nde_1066.html","mytitle":"Karen B NDE 1066","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen B NDE 1066  			  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						462  Karen B NDE  1066  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My throat totally closed up due to bacterial infection of my larynx.  I wish I could say I had angels and lights going on around me, but that didn't happen to me. I couldn't speak or breathe and I was thinking - God, I am ready if it is my time, but I didn't get to say goodbye to anyone or tell my husband and boys how much I love them. I was in total darkness, but it was not a scary darkness. It was comforting and like a soft glove holding me. A voice I had never heard before spoke. The voice was reassuring and sounded like velvet- no rasp in it at all - it was male. He said slowly, 'They already know.' I then felt totally calm and at peace.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    May 6, 2004

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction    Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No   I did know it was very late - early into the morning hours. I also remember my son had to get up and go to school and I wanted my husband to be there with him instead of with me. I knew I was not alone.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Just the voice.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I felt like something soft and cushiony was holding me - like a very conforming thick foam material, but I was actually on a steel table in operating room.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   A darkness, but not black. I was not afraid - it was more like a thick fog. The fog was more like a London fog, not an ocean fog.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     It will be okay to die - I didn't get to go beyond the fog - but I know it is peaceful and a voice was there who knew exactly what I was thinking.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I have ALWAYS been a very spleeny type of person who panics at pain or fear. I did not panic or fear anything at any time that night.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I knew I would be going back. I am not sure how I knew, but I was certain.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was aware I was going back, yes.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     EVERYONE says I have changed except me - but no one has been able to say how they think I have changed.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I think the knowledge of what it is like to die is helpful to others. I have been where dying people are going and it is not scary or terrible.  I believe God spoke to me. That is just what I know - I have seen a bolt of lightning pass through a room I was in once - it is the most beautiful blue/green neon color I have ever seen. The voice I heard that night was similar to that - never have heard something so beautiful before.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have a friend who lost her husband. I told her my story and she thanked me for sharing it with her.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I have a huge scar on my throat - I get lots of stares because of it. It is not something I would want to do again until it is REALLY time for me to go - it took a great deal of strength out of me.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_b_nde_1066.html