{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Karen B NDE 187","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen B NDE 187  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Karen B NDE 187  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						187  Karen B NDE 50  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 The last words I heard were, we don't think she is going to make it.


Next thing I remember I was in a dark tunnel with a light at the end. I was compelled to go to the light. When I came into the light, there was a being of light. It was the most peaceful feeling I have ever felt. More peaceful than I can put into words. The being told me I was HOME but that I needed to go back because he had some work for me to do. He said I would not understand the meaning of the work until I went back. He showed me what it was like to have a peaceful world and that we can attain that peaceful world if we have faith and help one another. He said I would come back here and help with this work. In time, I would remember who I really am and what my purpose is on earth. After my work was complete I would come back home. I agreed to come back and help.


It has not been easy to come back to this world and all its pain and suffering. In fact, it was a very painful experience to come back. It was like a cruising feeling or of an awareness of feeling the material plane. I came back with no fear of death and a huge understanding of life in general and what my purpose is on this earth.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    September 1981

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    Clinical death Bled to death after my last child, no pulseI was bleeding to death due to a condition in my  uterus. placenta acreeda. I had three d&c's.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I hovered above my body when I came back. I slipped back into my body. The doctor looked at me and asked me if I had just seen the pearly gates. I told him yes I did but how did you know? He said he has seen that look in other people’s eyes.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I felt that I was very alert. I looked down at myself and I looked like lines of shimmering light of rainbow colors traveling from head to toe with the same shape my body has now.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I just knew that I was home and that it was different from my earth home.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     The tunnel was dark but I was not afraid. Something was guiding me but I could not see anyone in the tunnel

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   At the end of the tunnel. It was calming. As soon as I saw it I knew somehow that it was good.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt like I had just met a very spiritual being. And I felt very honored and grateful.  Joy, peace and happiness  

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     The being said that life is a school of learning based on cause and effect. He said we must give up trying to control our lives and turn them over to God to find real peace and happiness.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   baptized catholic, did not attend church at that time

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   I attend church now, I have a deeper faith in God

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     I already believed in God before the experience.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   At first I did not think anyone else had the same experience. I did not think anyone would believe me. Now it doesn't matter. It was real and I cannot deny it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     My telepathic abilities have increased. I see auras. Patience

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was meeting the being of light of course. The worst was coming back here in the density.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have shared this experience when guided to. It has helped dying people and the elderly. Suicidal people. People who don't understand that they're family members are in a good place after they died. They find great relief.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I have been meditating a lot every day. When I go into a deep meditation, it reminds me of my NDE in that it feels like I am going to the same place. I am not positive at this time if it is the same place or not.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_b_nde.html