{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1karen_nde.html","mytitle":"Karen NDE 9425","mylang":"de"}
          	        Karen NDE 9425  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Karen NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5056 Karen NDE 9425  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    Eight months prior to death, I recovered from covid. I didn't know my heart was damaged from inflammation. Over the course of eight months, I experienced shortness of breath at night time when I lay down. One night I woke and couldn't breathe. I dialed 911 and headed outside onto the porch. I died there. My bowels flushed, releasing my soul from my body.

 The light came from inside of me like a beacon and I floated through it. I felt an all-consuming love like I have never felt on earth.  I saw and felt like I knew the elongated figure waiting for me at the end of the lighted tunnel. It felt like I was returning home. I looked back at my body on the porch and did not want to return to it. At the same time, I was distressed at leaving the earth because I knew I had not completed my assignment. 

I woke 8 hours later connected to a ventilator. The Emergency Medical Service (EMS) personnel arrived, resuscitated and intubated me on my front porch. Then I was taken to the hospital in the intensive care unit (ICU). I don't remember a conversation with the entity, although I know I had one. I came back with a gift but I don't understand what it is. I've gone to 2 hypnotists in the hope of retrieving this memory, but they were not equipped to help me.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 09JUL21  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    CPR given    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)     

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I know that I am an intimate part of the source of this light and we exist as one. I know that I am loved and important  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the journey form my body through the tunnel  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time lost all meaning  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was a part of the universe of every star. I saw and experienced each one vividly in color and sound. Yes, the galaxy sings.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was amplified to hear the sounds of stars planets galaxies  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I know that the tunnel opened from inside me and out into or through the veil  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was bright soothing and intelligent. It surrounded and permeated through me, conveying unspeakable love an acceptance  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I consciously traveled through to another realm  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Awe at the wonders of this spiritual realm. Disappointment with my earthly experience  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     Negative and positive energy. Light color frequency and sound in harmony  
  
Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was raised Christian Methodist Episcopal. As an adult Nondenominational  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am learning to meditate pray  

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   All of them  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I am confused at the elongated or alien figure  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   There was an elongated figure waiting for me at the end of the tunnel  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I have remembered other lifetime since childhood  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are part of it all  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I became aware that I am a portion of the supreme being  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes    but I don't know what it is  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     I have a task  

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I became aware that I had an agreement I hadn't fulfilled  

  Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain.     I don't remember what I am supposed to do and now believe I have to search for it  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     There is a lesson to learn for our soul/spiritual benefit  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I am loved  

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I am obsessed with frequencies and sound as to the effects it has on the body. Balancing my chakra energy grid and telling everyone about it  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't need other people's love attention or approval  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I knew I was going to die and I knew what to do  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have shifted my interest to frequencies and think I may have special abilities in this knowledge to benefit others but have only experimented personally. Not with others  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes. I was sent back for a reason  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Yes as soon as ventilator cuff was deflated I told every nurse and doctor. My children then family and coworkers. They either think I was dreaming or hallucinating  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of people experiencing this  

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     This is the first time I remember the actual dying process. I do remember many deaths but this one was unique in that I was sent back to this life and not born into another. In the other lifetimes, I wasn't aware that I had a purpose to fulfill  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I do not want to die again until my task or lesson is complete. I believe this is my last incarnation. I get to retire  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1karen_nde.html