{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kane_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Kane D NDE 3692\/2698  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tProbable NDE following surgery.<\/span>\">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kane D NDE 3692/2698  		  		  		  		  		Probable NDE following surgery.</span>">      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kane D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1696 Kane D NDE 3692/2698  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		Experience Description 3692:   

The usual out of body descriptions apply.  I could see everything.  If I thought about a person, I was immediately transported to them whilst paradoxically remaining and continuing to see what I was already witnessing. When I realized I was dead which took several minutes a great warmth of love engulfed me and I felt arms wrap around me even though I had no physical form, colors where electric, smells fantastic I slipped in and out of my body multiple times during the three days. I had life reviews, but these were not how I have read about.  Mine were purely self-observed and self-analyzed, as if I was my own parent or own teacher.  It is difficult to put into words. I was also aware of the over powering secret to life in its truly simple form and felt and believed it that nothing else is real but the feeling. The experience of death has been the most real and physical experience of my life and the world here felt cold, heavy, and unreal for some time afterwards.

There was a lot of 'physical' contact with me during this experience that also continued when 'alive' again and out of hospital intensely for several months but on occasion if I get anxious or worried it occurs again and as it did in my experience makes me feel instantly comforted and alright.   

Background Information:     

Gender:	 Male  

Date NDE Occurred:	  Jan 26, 2002 to Jan 29, 2002

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    brain hemorrhage right temple aneurism  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   was resuscitated 3 times, in a coma, on life support

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       out of the body solidly for 3 days

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     the paradox of time and no time existing together

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    didn't hear anything in the audio sense just instantly new thoughts, feelings of others

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     knowing of beings entities around but not relatives physical contact during and post

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       confusion and fear at times, conflict over wanting to stay there but needing to be here for my child, joy, relief

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     but that is personal to me

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Nuclear explosion in north Korea, world economic downturn, a relationship for me, my child's future, very accurate many other 'visions' less now but on occasion

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     No longer on the fence

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     No longer on the fence

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   simplicity of the reality of life what really matters and how to make your life be the way you want it to be

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Just so much more real honest and better most valuable part of my life  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was an experience of thought, feeling, vision, color, 4 dimensional could see 360 degrees in all directions, it was about 'knowing' physical contact feelings from other 'bodies' that also continued after the event for several weeks

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     The 'knowing' continues around other people super sensitive to other emotions no matter how hidden

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Too many to mention on here

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    In the hospital and others

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   caused confusion as mine was not much like all the ones I have read about

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     To many things have happened as it was said it would, my unusual skills that have developed

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     to many things have happened as it was said it would, my unusual skills that have developed

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     


Experience Description 2698:   

I had a cerebral hematoma (a brain hemorrhage) due to a burst blood vessel traveling up to my brain.  It popped in the right temple and I hit the ground I instantly.

I was aware not afraid.  I just knew that I was dying. I could physically feel myself dead. I was in a dark, void-like place but there was a pin prick, honey glow of light.  I instantly prayed to God i.e. I thought of God and begged him not to die.  I had a little girl who needed my help as her mum was causing her a lot of pain. I felt myself burst back into my body. I knew it was difficult and not what I was supposed to do. I then was rushed to hospital where after a night stabilizing my heart stopped.

I was out of my body and had total awareness. I could see 360 degrees around my body and in every direct.  I could see any place at the same time.  I had instant knowing. I thought of my daughter and I was there at her home with her.  Yet, at the same time, I was here in the hospital looking at myself. I watched a trail of visitors around the bed.  They were panicking.  I watched a lady place a lavender candle on the side board.  She hid it in the draw before I came out of my coma. (I found it later) I felt love surround me, like warm cozy arms squeezing around me. Yet, I had no body. I felt, I knew it was OK. I was loved and at home. I was told so many things and also that God was equal to me as to all men. I did not feel anything but peace and love - real peace and love. It was beautiful.  Time did not exist in that space. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 26.1.2002  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes       Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a brain hemorrhage and died twice.  I died once at home, but I forced myself back into my body.  The second time I died for some time in hospital but heart restarted on its own after 3 minutes  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   In that place it felt like home.  It was more real than you could imagine and more solid than this world. I realize this is the dream world not where I was at.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       For what seemed like forever after dying.  However, I also remained out of my body after being resuscitated and for most of my coma  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     No time no space I could be anywhere my thoughts took me to I chose to watch over my friends and family.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see every direction at the same time.    

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was just knowing.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     It was all-knowing.  There was no visible force. I was just there, surrounded by a honey golden light. I had no shape or form, just thought. Until I thought about having shape and form, and then I had shape in an instance.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Total joy, bliss calm happy at peace happy 4 the first time ever a real happiness that I had never before experienced.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because the experience was multidimensional all seeing and all knowing and I just even now cannot find enough words to sum up 10 per cent of it.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    Never fully shared it  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because I was physically touched on the shoulder kissed on the cheek and my name whispered in my ear when I sat and doubted it one day by the same person/identity  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kane_d_nde.html