{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kara_nde.html","mytitle":"Kara NDE 106","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kara NDE 106  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Kara NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						527  Kara NDE  106  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 It was during the birth of my first child. I was semi-conscious and bleeding internally. I had all the symptoms - high temperature and rapid heartbeat, but no visible bleeding. No doctors would come to operate. It was extremely painful. I remember everything.


The most disturbing aspect was that I tended to leave my body after the experience. It can be described as flying through out of space and reliving certain unresolved events throughout your life; as though you had to let go of these things before you moved on to the next world.


I thought at first that it could be post-traumatic stress that I was going crazy or it was the stress of having a young child. But since I have related these experiences to a near death experience, I seem to be able to cope with them a lot better. I am not scared of dying. In fact, I look forward to it as all your pain will be lifted.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    01/06/1989

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Hemorrhage during childbirth

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Just pain and the feeling that I wanted to die.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     That a car accident that happened when I was 19 was not my fault.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   

What is your religion now?      Liberal   

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The pain associated with almost bleeding to death. I actually used to leave my body a lot after the event. I thought I was going crazy, but it looked as though I was blacking out.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I constantly used to leave my body under stress.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The pain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No    

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Do not be scared of dying. It is a relief.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      What about those who may have been traumatized. I am too scared to tell anyone as they may think that I am crazy.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kara_nde.html