{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kantor_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Kantor R NDE 7554","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kantor R NDE 7554  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kantor R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3876 Kantor R NDE 7554  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During the use of improperly connected machinery, I received from the left hand to the right hand an electrical charge of 380 volts.

I was aware of everything but I could not call for help.  I could not breathe or let it go.  I saw all around my body was a clear blue shining link.  The electrical current twisted me.  I suppose by my own weight, I was pulled away from the operating machinery.  I realized that this is the end for me but I was calm and otherwise relaxed.  My entire life passed through my mind.  It was like I saw my entire life at once in one picture. I saw small details such as what I was wearing as a little boy and even a button. I saw my family, mainly my mother. I was completely calm and said to myself that I had not lived very long; but then I realized that my mother would really be terribly hurt.  From above, I saw myself as I was lying on the ground beside me were fellow workers.  They were doing something with me and I heard them say that I probably have epilepsy.  I said to myself, in my soul, for them to leave me and that I am fine. Slowly behind me, I was rising to the ceiling where I felt the strong light and warmth.  Although I was in the workshop where there was a lot of noise, I did not hear anything.  It was quiet.  I had a very strong feeling of well-being, calmness and peace, it was beautiful for me. 

Then I remember how I came back to consciousness.  I was outside in front of the workshop, where the ambulance was and how terribly I was breathing and my heart was racing.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other: úraz elektrickým proudem.  Injury from an electrical charge

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I saw how the others were trying to help me get up and I heard how someone said that I am probably having an epileptic seizure.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the realization that I am dying and during the showing of my life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I do not know how long everything took, because there is no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     At first I was afraid which I completely lost later and it changed to absolute calm.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard what the others were saying about me.  Then it was quiet, although in the workshop it was really noisy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I only felt that something is there behind me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw very clearly; and more than the others: my mother, who was still alive.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I did not see the light directly but I felt it. It was very strong, warm and pleasant.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I realized that I had died and I am going to heaven, even though earlier, I did not believe in going to heaven.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort, calmness a feeling of weightlessness, I felt only the upper half of my body.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     It is impossible to say or understand. It was more like a feeling or I had such a sense.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   It was only that I felt a slight sense of sorrow that my life was short.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was not nor am I a believer but I am closer a bit to God after this experience: If there is God. Something must exist.  I believe that there are angels: sometimes I have the sense that I feel them.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs I had at the time of my experience.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Certainly.  I re-evaluated my life.  I give priority to spiritual values before material.  I have not become a believer but I am certainly closer to God and I believe in angels.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     Even though I am not a believer, but in the moment, when I was rising, I said to myself that God probably really exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   When my life was shown to me the details surprised me especially those things that I had, long ago, forgotten.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     This experience was so strong; I remember it as reality not like a dream.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I realized great love for my family.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life. After the experience I look at life with greater overview. I have the feeling that I have, in myself, a lot of love and compassion. I am a lot more sensitive.  I think that I can manage only to distinguish up-close how people are.  When, for instance, someone is behind me and I do not see him, I feel that it is someone with negative energy.  Several people have told me that the touch of my hand for them is extremely pleasant and that they receive enormous warmth from my hand.

Two people, who are involved in healing, have told me this. As a coincidence, I was at a healer and he was very interested in me even though I was not there as a patient.  Apparently everyone sees an aura around me immediately, before the injury no aura was seen, and they began to check me out.     Slight changes in my life. After the experience I look at life with greater overview. I have the feeling that I have, in myself, a lot of love and compassion. I am a lot more sensitive.  I think that I can manage only to distinguish up-close how people are.  When, for instance, someone is behind me and I do not see him, I feel that it is someone with negative energy.  Several people have told me that the touch of my hand for them is extremely pleasant and that they receive enormous warmth from my hand.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling of calmness, peace and comfort for which there are no words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After a few years because I was afraid that no one would believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew and I know that it was real. I realized that I came back because I still have some work here or responsibility and that certainly something more exists than earthly life.  I know this for sure.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have been already twice close to death.  It has already been a long time ago since it happened, and possibly several years I have not thought about it, but when I am really ill, I do not have fear of it.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kantor_r_nde.html