{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kandy_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Kandy V NDE 164","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kandy V NDE 164  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Kandy V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						606  Kandy V NDE  164  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I had a very high fever for several days. The doctor did not know what was wrong with me because she was not aware of the flaws associated with the Dalkon Shield, and besides, we were in the middle of the Pacific. I was delirious much of the time. The doctor did not give me antibiotics because I was pregnant, but when I started to miscarry, she took me straight into surgery for Dilation and Curettage (D & C).


While I was under general anesthesia, I simply sat up and got out of my sick body. I remember seeing the operating table and the medical staff around my physical body in my peripheral vision. Right out in front of me was a being, with a material body, but not like a physical body. Its arms (I use the word loosely) were opened out to me and I climbed into its lap. I was laughing and crying at the same time. I said (we spoke with thoughts, which seemed perfectly normal at the time), ‘I almost stopped believing in you.’ The being kind of chuckled and said, ‘Well, here I am.’


I cannot tell you how much love this being was capable of giving. The best description I can offer is that it was as if love permeated every fiber of whatever body I happened to be in. There is no earthly experience that I have had that comes anywhere near this experience of being loved so totally and powerfully. I think there is a little blank space here where something else might have happened or been communicated, but I'm not sure.


Near the end of this encounter, I asked, ‘Is it time for me to stay with you now?’ Or, ‘Can I stay with you now?’ But the being said, ‘No, not this time.’ Then it showed me that I was connected by these threads of love to my two children, and that these threads were like a reflection of the love this being was capable of giving. I understood then that I had to return to be with them.


Returning to the body was a difficult task. It was like being squashed into a tuna can. I got back by somehow connecting to my breath and concentrating on the point of the intersection of two lines, kind of like aiming for a target. I remember being aware of being back in my body. I had a long recovery.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1974

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   IllnessSurgery-related  I was pregnant and developed massive uterine infection  due to dalkon shield.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death 

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I experienced my consciousness in another kind of body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I'm not sure what you mean.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Can't remember.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     See above. I seemed to know the being.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   The being emanated a kind of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See above.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I experienced mixed and intense emotions: relief, love, joy, and sorrow at having to leave the being.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Was shown I had to return to the body.

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   

What is your religion now?      Liberal   

  					Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I am certain that life is eternal.
  					
The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   I can explain it in words, but they could never come near conveying the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Have active and sometimes helpful dream life. Am more sensitive and aware of deep connections to others.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was getting to be with the being, the worst part was being squished back into a physical body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I don't share this experience very often. I only offer it when I think someone might benefit from hearing it or when others share similar experiences. I don't really feel the need to have outside validation of this experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Have sometimes felt that I have left my body during sleep.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      To tell you the truth, I think the best way this experience is communicated is from one human being to another when they are in the same physical space together. You know, the old fashioned oral tradition from one generation to another.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kandy_v_nde.html