{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kamme_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Kamme O NDE 839","mylang":"de"}
          	        Kamme O NDE 839  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Kamme O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						334  Kamme O NDE  839  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Before I left my body, I felt COLD from the inside out.  Then I didn't feel my legs. I told the nurse, 'I don't feel my legs, I mean, I don't FEEL NOT FEELING them.'  Then I left out of my body as if out of my chest area.  I was very high upon the 'wall', 'nose to nose' with the clock - a female voice and three male voices were there.  Neither stranger, nor do I recall WHO they are?  SHE said for me to remember 12:05.  I asked, 'a.m. or p.m.?'  She said that didn't matter, just remember 12:05.


I looked very far down to the yelling I heard - I saw the room and the people FAR away.  Then I was THERE, standing there, but they wouldn't move for me to see - I leaned through them or something - then my vantage point took me to the head of the bed.  I thought, 'Oh, I don't look too good.  I should've taken better care of myself.'


The voices said I didn't have 'much time'.  The people were upset and I didn't understand why?  I was FINE.  One lady yelled numbers, the others moved faster.  She said, 'nineteen over eleven!' and I thought, 'Oh? If I run out of numbers doesn't that mean I am DEAD?'  And I laughed, 'THIS IS IT?  THIS is what everyone is so afraid of???'  I laughed the same as I hear myself laugh now inside this thing once again.  I was still ME, just not in this.


I saw that 'light' - it is a being, LOVE, HOME.  It knew me, it knows all of us.  It made me aware that I have always been loved and will always BE loved, even if I forget again.


The female voice 'behind' me said, 'She doesn't know, you need to tell her!'  I focused my attention to her and the 'light' was gone.  She said, 'You had a baby!'  And I thought, 'Oh! A baby?  I can't leave the baby with Doug. Before I completed that thought, I hit my body like a ton of lead.  The pain was AWFUL.  The voices were 'gone' and I was trapped inside this again.  It was seven years before I figured out they didn't MAKE me come back. It was my THOUGHT, 'will that brought me back here?'  Here is there - just different.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    12/18/1990

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Childbirth    Clinical death Emergency c'sarean section.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  It didn't matter.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      TOTAL.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I still do.  I can't FEEL Mondays from any other day of the 'week' - don't FEEL time like I did - distinct impression it doesn't matter.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    PEACE.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     At the beginning of it.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     They were with me - I think I knew who they were, but I don't remember now.  I remember knowing them, but not WHO they are.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Without my physical eyes - I recall thinking; it is so bright that it would burn your eyes through your head, if you had them.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Everyone goes home.  Everyone is loved.  All is forgiven.  God is God by any name.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I think I knew what my son's life would be like without me here.  I was not going to allow it - I HAD to come back.

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      No       I chose to return. THINK = CREATE    All I did was THINK, "Oh? I can't...." and I was INSTANTLY "BACK".    I do remember being surprised by how "FAST" that occurred.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?       "Liberal" is not accurate via "religion" for Me.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     Death is a reward, not a punishment or end.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   Yes and No.  Words give much room for free will and misunderstanding - in that way, I would say 'yes' - I notice trying to explain the unexplainable feels like talking in circles, never ending.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Aware of more - trust myself more.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Sometimes I feel very 'homesick' - I long to be in that 'light' more.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Every chance I get - if people are interested.  Some people are happy not knowing.  I do not imagine that if they don't know now, they won't know 'then', because God knows everything and everyone, all ways.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   Drugs is like dreaming with your eyes open - NDE is different from that.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      If people weren't so afraid to 'die' they wouldn't be so busy killing each other.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      If I could do it again, would I?  YES, I would.  Has life here been easier because of it?  Yes and no.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kamme_o_nde.html