{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1kc_r_nde.html","mytitle":"K.C. R NDE 3036","mylang":"de"}
          	        K.C. R NDE 3036  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					K.C. R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1077  K.C. R NDE  3036  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

As I was hemorrhaging internally and going through severe fits of cold, heat, sweat, etc. I am told my eyes rolled back into my head and I lost consciousness. My (intense! vivid!) recollection is a seamless series of events that I will try as best as possible to put into words. First, let me digress and indicate why I am doing this. Yesterday I had an executive physical, and in answering the doctor's questionnaire, I wrote down 'major trauma' in 2006. Naturally, he followed up on that and to make a long story short said that my experience was so pure and vivid I should write it down and share it with others. He assumed I had read about other NDEs to bring clarity to my own events, but I told him no, that I had not read anything and it never occurred to me to do so. He advised me to Google NDE and share my story. I thought it might indeed be a good idea to get it on paper, so maybe I can share it with my grandson when he gets older; he is six now.

So, I was in the hospital bed, feeling really, really bad. My eyes rolled back into my head. I then found myself standing in what appeared to be the basement of a large building. Like the basement lobby of a very large hotel. It was not a hotel, but just a very big open area, with lots of arched stone entryways to - not sure - but they were dark areas. The light was a bit dim. I looked all around me and there were these arched doorways all around, maybe fifteen to twenty of them. I looked again and over to my left, about fifty feet away there was what appeared to be a man standing next to a doorway.

This whole series of events that I am describing in the basement, so to speak, was seen by me through some sort of vision filter; the best way to describe it is exactly like the digitized commercials we see on TV, where there are digital people - they look almost real, but just not quite. I didn't have any glasses on (I don't wear them anyway, except to read small font) and there was nothing otherwise that made we aware of the digitized surroundings, that's just the way it was.

I looked at the man. He was looking off in another direction. When I looked at him, he turned a bit and faced me. Our eyes locked in a gaze for a couple of seconds, and then he started walking towards me. The man was extremely intense looking. He was Caucasian. Had long brownish/dark hair, to his shoulders. His eyes were really, really intense. He had very chiseled facial features. He looked like a cross between the Joker of Batman fame, and illustrations we see of Jesus Christ. He was wearing an overcoat. Not a big man, about the same size and build as me - five feet eleven inches tall, fit and trim, slight build; not a real big guy. He walks towards me...

I stand still as he walks closer. He gets right up to me and grabs me. We proceed to wrestle, for a very long period of time. We physically wrestled.

On the ground. Just like an extreme sporting event. He was a superior wrestler than I. Although I gave it a valiant effort, he was a bit faster, a bit smarter. Sometimes I would have a bit of an advantage, but he would quickly reassert his dominance. My thinking during the wrestling is I am wrestling for my life. If I lose, I will die. Not that he was mean, just that the wrestling is so powerful and the stakes are my life. He never said anything. In my mind, he was in control the whole time.

I was physically exhausted and was wondering how much longer I could last, then I finally broke free from his grip. At the time I broke free, I felt an immense sense of relief - like I get to live! But at the same time I 'knew' that if had wanted to I would not have slipped away. I stood up, several feet away from him. He stood up also, looking at me the whole time. No facial expressions, just those deep, penetrating eyes and chiseled face looking at me.

He turned back towards the archway he had come from, and walked back to where he initially was standing. I looked around again, to try to figure out where I was at. I saw the same dark archways. I looked around again, and off to my right one of the archways had an incredible glow/light to it. Kind of like a white mist was flowing from the archway. That got my attention. I was thinking 'I wonder what that light is?' I walked towards the lighted archway.

As I got closer, the light was brighter. A color of bright white, so brilliant it is hard to describe. It is also like a mist - I could feel it, as I got closer to it. Just before I got to the doorway.  I was in the presence of the light, like being immersed/enveloped in it, I began to feel, all knowing, happy, stress less, exuberant, I am aware of all the answers to literally everything, just this ultra-fantastic existence of all problems vanishing, joy, physical and mental limitless being - that is about my best human description.

I walked through the archway of incredible light, and was in a kind of room of this wonderful light. The room was more like an elevator shaft (without the cables or elevator). There was no ceiling. I'm standing in the middle of the 'room' happily immersed in this wonderful misty, powerful light, and I begin to float upwards. Up and up and up, in the beautiful nurturing light. After what seemed like five to ten seconds of floating, I never reached a top or anything, but I shifted back to the hospital bed world. It was like I jumped back into this world through my eyeballs - I just floated up and up and then had this eyeball sensation that my eyes rolled back out from inside my head and I started to see this world again.

I opened my eyes (although I never had any sensation of closing them or opening them) and saw my brother Kip's face inches away from mine. He blurted out, 'Where'd you go? Where have you been?' The whole series of events was so vivid, and so real, I thought for several seconds, 'How do I explain it?' I just looked at him and said 'I'll tell you later!' I was totally dumbfounded on how to put it into words.

It was so intense, so real, so very real, that the best way I can possibly attempt to describe it is to say that that was the real world I was in; the world I am in now as I type this is the 'dream world.'

I've been back to that world (different surroundings and events; same light and euphoria experiences) twice since, by the way, in glorious dreams.

Further evidence - not that I need any now - that this is the dream world and the other side is what is 'real'.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    2/25/2006

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  Had a bad motorcycle accident on 2/18. Crushed abdomen/chest area. Crushed all ribs. Punctured/collapsed lungs. The doctors in the emergency room punctured my chest by my heart to put in a chest tube to get the blood out and pump air in. Nearly died that day - but that was not the day of my experience. I was in the intensive care unit for eleven days. On day seven, they removed the chest tube. That night my spleen burst and I was bleeding internally. I lost consciousness of the world we are now in and went to another place.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      During the wrestling, and as I walked into the light and was overcome with amazing, indescribable euphoria and intelligence.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Yes and no - it is hard to put this into words.

Yes in that, the 'switch' back and forth from/to this world was like real world time.

No, in that the 'switches' were seamless.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    The event was in some way akin to digital animation. The light was the brightest white I have ever seen.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Nothing to hear really - there was no dialogue.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Walked through the stone archway into the 'elevator shaft.'

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     For the first nine months as I dealt with this internally I assumed I was wrestling with the devil; I've since examined it further and know the opposite to be true.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Unworldly bright white light. Like the white light you see when you arc weld things.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Basement made of stone, archways;  "Elevator shaft."

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      About where I was (in the basement). Apprehension as he was walking towards me. Somewhat of fear or more like dread as we were wrestling. Relief as I broke free. Absolute euphoria during the light phase, as well as absolute, all-knowing intelligence.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     My entire life has changed, in a positive, fantastic way. I learned peace, perspective, kindness, love, compassion, and on and on and on.

The 'accident' was by far the best thing to ever happen to me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Went to church occasionally - to please the wife...

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I crave understanding. I love going to church and experiencing/exploring God. I pray all the time.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Lutheran; Read bible and go to church regularly; crave it.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I crave understanding. I love going to church and experiencing/exploring God. I pray all the time.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The whole universe was revealed to me as I was immersed in the light.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  All more positive.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The sensations were so utterly strong they defy description in language.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have had multiple instances of knowing - really knowing - things before they happen. Not just a gut instinct, but a firm knowledge and foresight.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The meaning of the wrestling episode - I think a lot about that. The whole all-knowing thing - has brought endless peace to my thinking and life (as I know it in this 'dream world' we are currently in).

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I shared it with my wife a week or so later. I've shared it with my daughter who is twenty-five. Some co-worker/friends. My doctor yesterday. Their reactions were pretty much like, 'Wow!'

A heightened level of spirituality is the usual influencing factor.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I'd heard about it on TV or in a magazine, about the same as if you asked me If I knew what a nuclear reactor was; I'd heard about them in passing but never thought anything about it or read about it. Had no real interest.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It took a lot of time to assimilate the meaning. I was rather bewildered about it all. I knew what happened, and it was more real than I can describe, but I did not know how to verbalize it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     The reality of the event defies human description. It was the best thing that ever happened to me - besides the subsequent two 'dreams' I've had with a similar experience. I can better verbalize it now. I'm still 'curious' as to the meaning of the wrestling episode; I grapple with theories.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I've had two subsequent 'dreams' while asleep, I guess, where I've lived similar light and all-knowing experiences.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      After this I have, and still have an incredible thirst for deeper understanding of both the events and of the universe in general. I've delved deeply into quantum mechanics and physics theory and cosmology - I just can't get enough of these two fields.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Pretty good and comprehensive already. Thanks, and God bless!

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1kc_r_nde.html