{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1zulaykha_nde.html","mytitle":"Zulaykha NDE 21351","mylang":"de"}
          	        Zulaykha NDE 21351  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Zulaykha NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						951  Zulaykha NDE  21351  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

A little while, after the third shot was administered, I shot up out of my body and was looking down. At that time, a bunch of nurses and a doctor gathered around my body, but I had no interest in it. I looked down on the next stretcher and there was an old man, I almost thought he saw me.  Then I went into the heating duct and out into the waiting room. I saw both my parents in there. My dad was holding my mom's hand. They looked so worried.

The whole time I felt an immense sensation of joy beyond description. The only thing that took away from it slightly was that my parents looked upset. I wanted them to realize that I was so much happier this way.  They should be celebrating. Besides this feeling of peace and joy, I knew the God existed beyond all doubt. God is the Real, and everything else pales in comparison to his infinity. I remember thinking how my parents (the atheists) were wrong and it was so ridiculous it was funny to think that God doesn't exist. I wanted to be with God, and remain in this state, but it was imparted to me (not through words) that I must return. I had to obey. I dove back down into my face and immediately saw things through the eyes of my body once more.

This experience was amazing-especially when I look back on it for a little girl to have a realization that there is a God against everything she was taught. I thank God for blessing me with this experience and giving me this knowledge.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1986

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     See explanation above. I initially went to the hospital because a car door was slammed on my wrist we went to the hospital to see if it was broken. (which makes why the nurses were giving me shots even more suspicious.   'I realize now it was clinical death, but I think it was due to a nurses' error (I remember getting 3 shots of a medication instead of 1 which perhaps put me into cardiac arrest). I was only 6, but looking back I think this is what happened.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was on a different plane of awareness. Not like my normal six year old self. I was much more conscious and alert you can say than when I was in my body. Looking back on it when I got older it was truly amazing.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     I had no knowledge of religion at the time. It retrospect it seems like mystical union or something. Place had nothing to do with it. In mystical union a hospital waiting room can be like heaven I suppose.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   Everything looked normal.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see normally (except I was floating). I could hear too, but what people were saying didn't interest me. Only my sense of joy and God interested me.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Joy beyond normal emotions. Peace, happiness.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I witnessed everything that went on in the hospital while I was dead/unconscious.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   It was imparted to me that I must return.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     It wasn't immediate, but I became much more religious, and then I converted to Islam (thank God).

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   I can explain it but there are aspects of God that I realized that I can't fully explain in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     No, sometimes I have strange dreams.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was the knowledge of God and joy.

The worst was the knowledge of the incompetence prevalent in hospitals, and the sadness I felt when I saw my parents were upset.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I've only told people who have similar religious beliefs or who are used to hearing about mystical experiences. After the situation with my parents I don't tell just anyone anymore.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				   			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1zulaykha_nde.html