{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1zoraida_c_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Zoraida C Probable NDE 4028","mylang":"de"}
          	        Zoraida C Probable NDE 4028  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Zoraida C Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1937 Zoraida C Probable NDE 4028  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I always told my mother about this when I was a little girl, and at that time I had no idea that this might happen to other people too. It is strange, but though I was only a baby, I felt as if I separated from my body and had the freedom to go wherever I wished. It felt as if I was flying. I found myself in a wood, full of big trees, and when I looked at the ground, I could see thousands of fallen leaves. I could feel a pleasant breeze. Through the branches of the big, enormous, trees I could see a kind of white light shining, without knowing whether it was sunlight or just a light. But it shone through and lit up all my surroundings. It was not a beautiful garden, rather a place of solitude, forlorn and sad, with only the light for company. I started to move forward and this is the strangest thing, which I have never been able to forget: I saw a whiter light, which seemed infinite, through a long and completely white tunnel, and I saw two big branches intertwined, as if they bordered a coat-of-arms. They were big branches and they enclosed two large golden keys, which were also entwined like swords forming an 'x'-shaped cross. I could see clearly, which I don't understand, as I have no memories of when I was a baby! That was all. After two weeks, I started to recover (my health). I had long-term effects from that illness. I still have half of my body affected, but I lived as best as I could until I was thirteen, when I again had a similar experience, but which was also different.

One night, after a normal day in the life of any teenager, I went to bed, and straightaway I didn't know whether I was dreaming or what was going on. I was suffering convulsions, like an epileptic fit, according to what the doctors told me. I knew I was in my bed, I saw myself contorted in the bed, and I felt a heaviness, like cramps. I seemed to be standing looking towards the door of my room, which was half-opened, but I could not see myself standing there, I just felt that it was so. I didn't know what was happening, and I was conscious of wanting to open my eyes, but I could not. My sister was asleep in another bed in the same room, and my parents in another room quite separate from mine. But they all heard a kind of very loud snoring sound, and were standing next to me shouting and trying to wake me up. I saw dimly, but heard the shouts quite clearly, then getting further away. 

I went through a black tunnel, which had red lights, and heard voices, without being able to make out whose they were. I felt cramps, and then I relaxed. Then I heard a voice, which was my grandmother, deceased eleven years before. She wanted to take my hand, and other voices were calling me too, but I didn't recognize them. I felt no fear. Suddenly I again heard the cries of my parents, but far away, and I concentrated on listening to them without knowing that they were calling for me. Then I could see them moving my body and I awoke without knowing what was happening, astonished at my mother's tears, my father's shouting and the anxiety of my sister. 

I sat up and just felt tiredness and heaviness in my body. I couldn't explain what had happened. They put alcohol under my nose and took me to the clinic although it was around midnight. On the way back home, I told my mother I'd heard my grandmother's voice then saw the stars, which were so many, and I had a strange feeling: as if I had been there (to the stars) or would like to be. After this 'fit', as the doctors call it, I felt afraid, but the fear was a conscious fear of death or of remaining injured. I have no fear of what I felt in the tunnel; I was at peace. I never had any more fits, until today, at the age of twenty-eight, and I take anticonvulsants to ward them off. This was my experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 5, 1981
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness  enfermedad: no se supo explicar si nací con una mancha en el cerebro o ésta fue provocada por meningitis u otra    complicación.  Other Estuve al borde de la muerte según cuentan mis padres y estuve en estado de coma durante dos semanas aproximadamente.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   On both occasions I was conscious of 'being me' throughout.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       On both occasions I was conscious of 'being me' throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were stronger, more brilliant, like looking on a new screen with better technology.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The first time, I heard nothing. The second time, hearing faded as I got further away.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Through a dark tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The second time, my grandmother. I did not see her but I knew it was she for some reason, which I cannot explain. There were others who were just calling my name, and I heard murmuring sounds.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright light in the first case. In the second, just darkness and a reddish vision, like a disco lit up with faint red lights.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     En el primer caso, visité un bosque inmenso, solitario pero lleno de paz, me sentí volar y moverme con rapidéz.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Tranquility, peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Nothing.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   me bautizaron cuando estaba por morir en la cama del hospital.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1zoraida_c_probable_nde.html