{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V16 1913-14","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v16_1913-14.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V16 1913-14","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
ONTARIO
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XVI
51127
For Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only
ONTARIO
THK SOCIKTVS ROOMS
20 HANOVER SOUARE, LONDON, W.
All rights n-sc-
No. CCXCV. VOL. XVI. JANUARY, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CONTICN
FAc
New Members and Associates, 2
Meeting of the Council, ... -
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, - 2
Case, 3
Psychical Researchers and the Will to Disbelieve. By F. C. Constable, - - 6
Notes on Cases printed in the last Journal, 14
Obituary : A. W. Dobbie, 16
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On TUESDAY, FEBRUARY nth, 1913, at p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A Study of Dreams
"
WILL BE READ BY
DR. FREDERIK VAN EEDEN.
N.B. No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
TEA WILL BE SERVED AT 4.30.
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1913.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Clark, Rev. F. H. H., 7 Wyndham Place, Bryanston Square,
London, W.
Edwardes, Mrs. Dyer, 5 Hyde Park Gate, Kensington, London, W.
Guttwoch, Charles, 7 Kingswood Avenue, Queen's Park, London,
N.W.
Mason, Frank, 7 Stanley Crescent, London, W.
GELLERT, J. W., Adelaide, South Australia.
MANDEVILLE, MRS. JAMES I., 1546 South 6th Street, Terre Haute,
Indiana, U.S.A.
M'CoNNEL, MRS., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
MENENDEZ-MENA, RODOLFO, LL.D., D.Sc., Merida, Yucatan, Mexico.
PYE, W. A, Priest Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
TRENCH, MRS. C. CHENEVIX, Broomfield, Camberley, Surrey.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 118th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, December 9th, 1912, at 6 p.m.,
MR. H. ARTHUR SMITH in the chair. There were also present:
Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Sir Lawrence
J. Jones, Bart., Mr. W. M'Dougall, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Mrs. A. W.
Verrall ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Research Officer, and Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Four new Members and six new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for November, 1912, were presented
and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 42nd Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20
Hanover Square, London, W., on Monday, December 9th, 1912,
JAN., 1913. Private Meeting for Members and Associate*.
at 8.30 p.m.; MRS. HENRY SIDGWK K in the chair. Mrs.
Sidgwick, in welcoming the reader of the paper, expressed
great regret that Sir William Barrett, its joint author, was
unfortunately unable to be present, on account of illness.
THE REV. E. SAVELL HICKS read a paper by Sir William
Barrett and himself on
"
Recent Experiments with the Ouija
Board."
The experiments he described were carried out by a small
group of members of the Dublin Local Section, who met
regularly for the purpose. They used an ordinary baize-
topped card-table, on which they distributed at random the
letters of the alphabet, covering them with a sheet of plain
glass, 22 inches square. The sitters were blindfolded, and
various precautions were taken to prevent them from knowing
the position and arrangement of the letters, which were fre-
quently changed. Nevertheless coherent sentences were spelt
out and intelligent answers given to questions, notes being
always taken by one of the other persons present who were
observing what took place.
Mr. Hicks added to the interest of the paper by exhibiting
a table arranged with an alphabet and a sheet of glass, as
used at the sittings. In the discussion that followed, many
questions regarding the experiments were asked, and Mrs.
Sidgwick expressed the hope that other members of the Society
would experiment on similar lines and report the results
obtained.
CASE.
L. 1194. Apparition.
THE following case of an apparition, seen on the first day of
what proved to be the fatal illness of the person represented
by it, was recently communicated to Mrs. Sidgwick by a friend
of hers, who was acquainted with the percipient, Mrs. Bolton,
and Mrs. Bolton then kindly sent us an account of her experi-
ence. The first account was written by her husband and
signed by herself, and the corroborative statements of her
servants, to whom she mentioned what she had seen at the
time, are embodied in it, as follows :
December 1th, 1912.
Oct. 7, [1900] Sunday. When in church at the afternoon service,
when the last hymn was being sung, I distinctly saw my step-son
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1913.
standing outside the pew looking in my face. I stopped singing,
feeling very upset, and sat down. On looking again I saw the face
again, but looking drawn and white.
On returning to the house I called the maid who always waited
upon him, and I said,
"
Sarah, I feel Master Charles is ill ;
he will
die," and I burst into tears. The maid said,
" I think, madam, you
cannot be well."
(This statement as to what my mistress said to me is quite correct.
SARAH WHYBROW.)
I also spoke to E. Webb, the cook, and said,
"
I saw Master Charles
in church, and I saw his coffin by the chancel steps."
(This statement is quite correct.
ELIZABETH WEBB.)
On this day Charles wrote his last letter to me.
Oct. 13. My husband heard from Charles that he was on the sick
list, and this day he was moved from the " Benbow "
to hospital.
Oct. 17. Much against my wish, we went to Boscombe.
Oct. 19. My husband went up to Greenock.
Oct. 24. Decided to go myself to Greenock, notwithstanding my
husband's telegram that "there was a decided improvement," and
telegraphing me not to come up.
Oct. 25. Doctor said there was no hope, but when [Charles] saw
me his face brightened, and taking me by the hand he said, "Oh,
mother, mother."
Oct. 30. On this night I felt a strong pressure on my left arm,
and I put out my hand, thinking some one was there, but I felt
nothing ;
but I said,
"
Charles, are you here ?
"
No answer came,
but I felt a further strong pressure.
Oct. 30. On this day he was brought home and placed in the
church.
All the dates in this statement are correct, and agree with memo.'s
made in [Captain Bolton's] diary of 1900.
(Signed) C. J. BOLTON.
Dec. 7th, 1912.
This is a true statement written by my husband for me.
JULIA E. BOLTON.
Mrs. Sidgwick went to see Captain and Mrs. Bolton on
December 7th, 1912, and gives the following account of her
interview :
I saw Captain and Mrs. Bolton at their residence, Booking Hall,
Braintree, yesterday. I heard from Mrs. Bolton about her experi-
ence, and received from them the account written out by Captain
Bolton for his wife and signed by her. She also read me an
account written by herself, which she has promised to copy and
send me. It contains important points which she also told me in
JAN., i'.n:i. Case. 5
conversation, namely, that the letter written on the Sunday stated
that her step-son, Lieutenant Bolton, K.N., had a cold, and that
on account of the alarm caused by her vision she telegraphed on
tin- Monday to ask how he was, and received a telegram in reply
stating that he had slight influenza. The letter and telegrams have
been destroyed. This was the beginning of the illness of which he
died. Pneumonia supervened on the influenza, and then the heart
failed.
I saw both the servants who sign statements in the account.
It will be noticed that one speaks of a coffin at the chancel steps.
Mrs. Bolton confirms this, but my impression is that, if she really
saw it at the same time as the figure, it must have been much
less vivid. I gathered that it was the apparition and the drawn
expression of the face when she looked up and saw it again that
alarmed her. The coffin actually stood in the church at the chancel
steps during the night before it was buried in the churchyard of a
neighbouring parish. The house, it may be observed, is quite close
to the church.
ELEANOR MILDRED SIDGWICK.
In reply to a request from Mrs. Sidgwick that Captain
Bolton would write his own recollection of what Mrs. Bolton
had told him at the time, he wrote to her :
BOOKING HALL, BRAINTREE,
ESSEX, Dec. 10th, 1912.
In answer to your enquiries, I have no recollection of my
wife saying anything to me regarding seeing the apparition in
church, and I think this can be accounted for. Mr. ,
who
was in our pew that afternoon, came in to the house with us to
have tea, and remained all the afternoon, and of course she would
not say anything before him, and, again, she might have thought
I should consider her fanciful and foolish. . . .
I have a distinct remembrance of my wife's distress at that time,
and her great anxiety, and that I postponed our visit to Boscombe
for a week at her persistent request, although we had the house
taken.
You must remember all this took place twelve years ago, and at
84 (my age) memory is not quite at its best.
C. J. BOLTON.
Mrs. Bolton afterwards wrote a more detailed account from
which we- extract the following :
BOOKING HALL, BRAINTREE,
ESSEX, Dec. 13th, 1912.
On October 7th, 1900, on Sunday afternoon, I was sitting in the
Bocking Hall pew, and during the last hymn I looked up and my
step-son, Lieutenant Bolton, appeared to be standing in front of me,
and looking earnestly into my face. I stopped singing and sat down
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1913.
feeling very upset. I looked again and saw his expression had
changed and he looked drawn and white. After leaving the church
I came into the house and went into the housemaid's room and
called my housemaid, Sarah Whybrow (who always waited upon
him), and said,
"
Sarah, Master Charlie is ill. I have seen him
and he is
going to die." The maid answered, "I think, madam,
you are ill." I felt so distressed I burst into uncontrollable tears.
On the next morning by the second post, Oct. 8th, I received a
letter from my step-son saying "he had a slight attack of influenza."
(It was the last letter he wrote to me.)
On the same day, Oct. 8th, I telegraphed to him to know how
he was. The reply was, "slight influenza."
We had previously taken a house in Boscombe for the following
Wednesday, 10th, but with difficulty I persuaded my husband to
wait a few days here, feeling my son would want me. From the
8th telegrams between my son and rne passed, but always he was
"getting on." We heard of nothing serious till
Saturday, 13th,
when we received a telegram to say "Lieut. Bolton has been moved
from the 'Benbow' to the hospital in Greenock."
The rest of the account describes the course of the illness,
which terminated fatally on Sunday, October 28th, 1900.
PSYCHICAL EESEAECHEES AND THE WILL TO
DISBELIEVE.1
BY F. C. CONSTABLE.
IT may be that the will to believe vitiates all the results
of psychical researchers. But, if so, it is possible at the same
time that the will to disbelieve as fully vitiates the criticism
of Dr. Ivor Tuckett.
Dr. Tuckett at the outset compares the schools of thought
of Sir Ray Lankester on the one hand and of Sir Oliver
Lodge and Sir William Barrett on the other. He says :
"
The
former demands evidence which is capable of verification and
is based on experiments or observations that can be repeated
under definite and known conditions, while the latter is satisfied
with evidence that does not come up to this standard."
Dr. Tuckett evidently agrees with the former school and,
as will be shown, such agreement prevents him from any
unbiassed consideration of the evidence in favour of telepathy.
Sir Eay Lankester is reasonable: he denies the possibility of
1
A reply to "
Psychical Researchers and the will to Believe," by Dr. Ivor
Tuckett, Bedrock, July, 1912.
JAN., I'.M;;
Psychical Researcher* and the Will to Disbelieve. 7
intercourse between human beings otherwise than through the
normal organs of sense and so does not take any interest in
psychical research : he ignores telepathy, when he is not
laughing at it. Dr. Tuckett is in error, it seems, in thinking
that Sir Ray Lankester takes any intelligent interest in psychical
research.
Telepathy may be a fact or it may not. But, if a fact, it is
of such a nature that it is incapable of laboratory observation,
and its experiments and observations cannot be repeated under
definite and known conditions. The laws to which telepathy
is subject are at present unknown ;
so the psychical researcher
is confined to the observation of particular facts. This, by
admission, constitutes a necessary infirmity in the evidence
forthcoming in support of telepathy, and leaves open a
"
legitimate
"
door for the laughter of Sir Kay Lankester. He
and others are as fully justified in laughter at psychical research
as the four French men of science were at the phonograph, or
the scientific world at Galvani as
"
a dancing master of frogs,"
or the whole universe, twenty years ago, at the possibility of
the divisibility of the atom or the existence of matter which,
without appreciable loss of energy, could constantly give forth
heat. Before dealing with telepathy my main object reference
must be made to other subjects of psychical research considered
by Dr. Tuckett ;
for his method of arguing would appear to
show he has misunderstood the principles of the Society for
Psychical Research ; principles which are accepted by a great
majority of the many members.
The Society for Psychical Research is a society for research,
not for the promulgation or establishment of any particular
theory. Certain gentlemen in 1882 were of opinion that facts
of human experience exist which cannot be accounted for if
we are confined to intercourse with one another through the
ordinary channels of sense. The S.P.R. was established to
investigate what may be termed abnormal phenomena of
human experience. So the investigations are not confined to
cases of telepathy.
Investigations have been made, as pointed out by Dr. Tuckett,
into the
"
phenomena
"
alleged to be produced by Eusapia
Palladino, Slade, and Bailey. Most of us reject all these
"
phenomena
"
: some of us accept some of them. But the
8 -
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1913
acceptance or rejection has nothing to do with the S.P.E. All the
society is responsible for is the investigation. We may be fools
or wise men and women for so investigating ; but, in either case,
Dr. Tuckett's attacks against the personal beliefs of members
are wide of the mark. The disbelievers are as fully members
of the S.P.E. as the believers. It is, however, perhaps interest-
ing to note that, for his proof of the trickery of Eusapia and
Slade, Dr. Tuckett relies on the evidence of Mrs. Sidgwick and
Mr. S. J. Davey, both members of the S.P.R.
But let us now turn to telepathy, and see how the subject is
treated by Dr. Tuckett. He says that in order to solve the
"
telepathic puzzle
"
it is essential that
"
we should put our-
selves, if possible, in the position of convinced believers in
telepathy." Surely there is some error here ? Dr. Tuckett
himself is doubtless a convinced believer in the laws of nature
so far as we know them, and therefore would receive, as facts,
statements made by trustworthy witnesses which were in accord-
ance with .the known laws of nature. But the very question
that he raises is whether the convinced believer in telepathy
is right or wrong in accepting as facts from trustworthy wit-
nesses statements not in accordance with known laws of nature.
The first thing rightly to be done is, assuming telepathy to
exist, to try to find out what evidence is available in support
of the fact, and, secondly, to examine the evidence which is
adduced.
Now, assuming telepathy to exist, there is not one single
"
spontaneous
"
case which can be repeated, a fortiori, can be
repeated in the laboratory. Each spontaneous case is as much
a personal passing experience as eating a particular dinner or
shooting a particular bird. It is, indeed, more definitely a
personal passing experience than eating a dinner or shooting a
bird, for the form of eating or shooting may continue, but
most spontaneous cases are unique.
This infirmity of evidence is a necessary
"
ingredient
"
in all
spontaneous cases, and, as necessarily, opens the possibilities of
self-deception or mal-observation. Fraud, of course, there may
be as there may be even in laboratory experiments touching,
for example, the transmutation of metals. But no fraudulent
observation or experiment can be held to vitiate observation or
experiment free from fraud.
JAN., 1913. Psychical Researcher* and the Will to Disbelieve. 9
This infirmity of evidence appears also, in some degree, in
experimental cases. Any scientific laboratory experiment can
be repeated as often as it may be desired, under the same
circumstances. But this, in the nature of the case, is impos-
sible in any experiment in psychical research.
From what is above written it appears that when the school
of Sir Eay Lankester and Dr. Tuckett demands for proof of
telepathy that there shall be experiments or observations capable
of verification by repetition under definite and known condi-
tions, they are making a demand which cannot be complied
with. Sir Eay Lankester starts with an assumption that com-
munication between human beings otherwise than through the
organs of sense is impossible. He begs the question : he
demands proof of telepathy which, if telepathy does exist,
cannot in the nature of the case be forthcoming.
Now the S.P.E. makes no attempt to prove the existence of
telepathy :
proof is impossible. All even the most exact man
of science can do towards proof, even of gravity, is to adduce
evidence of truth. All scientific truth is logical ;
is based on
assumption. The scientific theory of the indestructibility of the
atom was based on assumption, and the theory was useful in
helping to accumulate evidence of the truth. Now the assump-
tion is surrendered.
But when, by admission, there is a natural infirmity in the
evidence which can be adduced in favour of telepathy, the
question arises whether the infirmity is of such a nature that
it is useless to investigate the evidence. The S.P.E. holds that
it is not useless ;
Dr. Tuckett would probably hold that it is.
Dr. Tuckett writes as to telepathy :
"
I am quite prepared
to believe in it directly there is any evidence as good as
that for the origin of meteorites or the existence of globular
lightning ;
but I hold that quantity does not take the place of
quality in the evidence either for the sea-serpent or for tele-
pathy. Sir W. F. Barrett's evidence is really only formidable
and impressive in its length." And he then proceeds to argue
that the evidence adduced by Sir William may be subject to
the infirmities already referred to.
Let us consider this question of "quantity and quality,"
always bearing in mind that if telepathy be a fact, the laws
of nature, as now known to us, do not govern it.
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1913.
Dr. Tuckett has probably never seen globular lightning, yet
he believes in it. Suppose only one man had seen globular
lightning and recorded his observation : would Dr. Tuckett,
apart from laboratory experiments, believe in it ? Does he not
believe in it because of the quantity of evidence ?
Now consider the hundreds of recorded cases of telepathy,
and, to clear the way, let us first neglect the infirmity of the
evidence adduced in proof of them.
Suppose there was one and one only recorded case, say, of
a man in England who had a dream or waking vision at a
particular time of the death of his brother in Australia, of
which dream or vision there is a record. And suppose there
is evidence also that the brother died at the time of the dream
or vision. Such a personal experience would be ignored by
all, would be referred to chance coincidence. But suppose five
hundred different people had like dreams or visions with the
same coincidence with the death. Would not the quantity of
evidence have effect on belief ? Would not the difficulties of
a critic, who desired to explain the coincidences as the result
of chance, be largely increased ? The Ghurka soldier who had
been to England was asked by his captain why he had not
told his fellows of the wonders he had seen across the black
water. He replied that he could not because he would have
been condemned as a damned liar. But if fifty men had been
to England and had come back with the same tale ?
He who has had experience of telepathy comes to us all
with a like tale of the wonders of telepathy, wonders unknown
to us and subject to no known law of nature. He can only support
his story by help from others of like but not the same experience.
The quantity, not quality only, of evidence has weight.
The psychical experience in telepathy of any individual is,
at present, a miracle : it is against the known laws of nature,
him illae lacrimae. So the psychical researcher does not
rely on the strength of any chain of which each personal
experience is a link. The S.P.E. have offered proof of the
fraud of Slade, Bailey, and Madame Blavatsky, and some of
their reports were adverse to Eusapia. Even the last report,
referred to by Dr. Tuckett, has been neither accepted nor
rejected, and the report itself called attention to the fact that
Eusapia had been previously detected in fraud.
JAN., litiu.
Psychical Researcher* and the Will to Disbelieve. 11
Now there are hundreds of cases of telepathy recorded.
Those few referred to by Dr. Tuckett are, as proved by the
researches of the S.P.I!, itself, all open to the charge of fraud.
Even the hundreds are, by admission, authenticated by evidence
which is in some measure infirin. But the infirmity is a
natural infirmity which cannot be got rid of.
I think it may be admitted that the great majority of those
recording their telepathic experiences are honest, and if we
grant them only normal powers of observation in each veridical
case, as given, there is a coincidence. The cases are so many
that some of us hold the probability of chance coincidence
to be very small, and believe they point to a power in man
of communicating otherwise than through the normal organs
of sense. Podmore, in spite of Dr. Tuckett's criticism, fully
believed this.
But the infirmity of the evidence ? Even if deliberate fraud
is absent, there may be exaggeration, addition of details or
particulars, even some form of self-deception. And yet, in spite
of this, the central fact, the coincidence, on which the psychical
researcher relies, may remain untouched.
Doubtless the whole of our personal experience during life
makes some permanent impression on us. But we can recall
in memory only leading or remarkable facts. We all remember
the first woman we loved, the first time of smoking, the first
bird or rabbit shot, the first fish hooked even if not landed ;
it is the marked events and changes of our career in life that
we remember. In memory we may exaggerate or add details
to the facts we remember. But the central fact of our
experience remains true in memory : the fact of the woman,
the smoking, the bird, rabbit or fish.
If, then, any one has had a telepathic experience, would he not,
in scientific probability, remember the central fact correctly? The
very abnormality of the experience would sear it into his memory.
The writer, himself, dreams constantly and forgets ;
but how
could he forget one marked event, when some one dying at a
distance appeared to him in dream or waking vision at the
time of death and told him something known but to the person
dead or dying ? The experience was unique, and the seven
or eight hundred cases reported in Phantasms of the Living are
nearly all defined by their writers as unique in impression.
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1913.
What is to be relied on is the central fact in memory : the
details may be treated as imaginative embroidery, and yet the
substance on which the psychical researcher relies will remain.
Consider a well-known case which I deliberately weaken as I
state it. A lady in England during the Indian Mutiny suddenly
sees an apparition of her husband who is in India, with details
of dress and appearance which she is able to describe minutely.
She is so affected by the unique experience that she refuses all
invitations to entertainments till she is able to get news of her
husband. Later on news comes of a battle in which he was
killed. But the date given for the battle by the War Office is
the day after the vision. Later on again, the date is corrected :
the man died about the time he appeared to the wife. (See
Phantasms of the Living, Vol. L, p. 420.)
Now let us assume the wife's description of the details of
costume, etc., is mere imaginary embroidery. Is nothing left ?
Something is left. What is left is the unique coincidence
between the vision and the death. It is on that the psychical
researcher relies ;
in this particular case the correction of the
date is on record. The infirmity of evidence leaves the coin-
cidence untouched in many other cases.
Again, it is objected that, when we bear in mind the hundreds
of millions of human beings in existence, if telepathy were true
we should have a vast number of recorded cases. In fact, the
strangeness is in the largeness not the smallness of the recorded
cases. It is confidently alleged that cases of telepathy are
common, and, at once, a test can be offered to the reader. You
who read, have you or have you not had personal experienc'e
of telepathy, or been told by some one of such experience ?
A large majority of you will reply in the affirmative.
But if such experiences are so common, why are so few
recorded, so few made public ?
Very much for the same reason that Galileo refrained, at
one period of his life, from continuing to record and make
public his theory as to the movement of the earth. Those
experiencing them are afraid of public opinion ; and, in the
face of men like Huxley, who treat such experience as belonging
only to cranks, and of such men as Sir Eay Lankester, who
treat the whole matter as belonging to vulgar superstition,
their conduct is natural and expedient. It is true that not
JAN., HM:J.
I*ychical Researcliers find tfte Will to Disbelieve. 13
a few distinguished men of science and philosophy have an
open mind, and that their number is increasing. But the
majority of scientific men still hold that telepathy is impossible,
because contrary to the known laws of nature, and so they
brand psychical researchers as impostors, fools, or homunculi of
superstition. Some of us have a natural objection to be so
branded.
Again, of those who have personal experience of telepathy,
how many make a record at the time, and trouble to record
corroborative evidence ?
Very, very few.
But if, for the ordinary man, there is power of memory to
retain the central facts of personal experience, and we, ordinarily,
accept this form of memory as trustworthy, a fortiori, we
should trust to memory for the central facts of abnormal
personal experience. For the very abnormality strengthens
the probability of the central facts being retained correctly in
memory.
Dr. Tuckett has ignored all the leading cases of telepathy
on which psychical researchers rely. If we neglect both
"
The
Will to Believe" and "The Will to Disbelieve," the conflict
between the two schools can be clearly stated.
The school of Sir Kay Lankester demands for proof of
telepathy experimental cases which can be repeated, under
definite and known conditions, in the laboratory. This begs
the question. For it cuts out all evidence arising from
spontaneous cases, and is inapplicable even to experimental
cases. This school is based on denial of the possibility of
telepathy : for telepathy, if true, being based mainly on the
psychical, is not fully subject to the physical.
The opposing school, admitting the possibility of telepathy,
admits also necessarily that the proof demanded by Sir Ray
Lunkester's school cannot be forthcoming. What evidence is
open to it ? Coincidence.
Where there is coincidence there is always the possibility
that it is explicable by chance, though it must not be
forgotten that chance is but a negative term : it is no more
than a convenient veneer for human ignorance. But whether
or not a coincidence is explicable by chance is purely a
question of degree. A man firing once at a target hits the
bull's-eye. We may fairly refer this to chance. But should
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1913.
he hit the bull's-eye twenty times running, chance fails as an
explanation, we must introduce the factor of the skill of the
marksman. If a dream or waking vision hits the mark once,
we may refer it to chance ;
but if dreams or visions constantly
hit the mark, a degree of success may, some time, be attained
which makes us abandon chance, and forces on us a conclusion
that there is some positive reason for the success attained
which cannot be explained by negative chance.
The psychical researcher rightly relies on the quantity of
evidence, as Dr. Tuckett must rely for his belief in globular
lightning on the quantity of evidence. The quality of the
evidence necessarily depends in some measure on the trust-
worthiness of personal statements. But the central fact, the
coincidence, is capable of proof by record. This quality, accepted,
can only be strengthened by the number, the quantity, of the
coincidences recorded.
NOTES ON CASES FEINTED IN THE LAST JOURNAL.
SEVERAL questions and comments having been addressed to us
about the cases printed in the last Journal (Dec., 1912), it
may be worth while to return to them here, as the same
questions may have arisen in the minds of other readers.
Mrs. Verrall (on p. 338) quoted only those phrases from
Miss Yen-all's script of Oct. 22, 1912, to which "Miss
Jones's
" l
dream seemed to apply, namely,
"
The Lombard
poplar the Florentine's fierce love." The rest of the script is
somewhat vague and may or may not be intended to refer to
Dante. There is no evidence that any one was "
on the wrong
tack," as stated or suggested in Miss Jones's dream ;
but there
is the rather striking coincidence that Miss Jones dreamt of
Dante and Verona in connection with script apparently pro-
duced by Miss Verrall or her mother. 18 days after Miss
Verrall had actually produced a script which she supposed at
the time to refer to Dante, and which her mother seeing it on
O
Nov. 2nd had suggested to her might refer to his stay at
Verona.
In the published scripts of Mrs. and Miss Verrall, the only
1
The real name of Miss Jones was, of course, communicated to the Editor
though not printed in the Journal.
JAN.. i.M.-{. Notes on Caw* I'riuinl in the lant Journal. 1">
ones which Miss Jones could have seen or known anything
about, references to Dante or to his works are rare ; they odcur,
I think, in only two of Miss Verrall's and only four of Mrs.
Verrall's, while there are many other topics which occur more
frequently. Thus, there seems no normal reason why Miss Jones
should have dreamt that he was mentioned in the script. Verona
again, was only one of the numerous cities visited by Dante
during his long exile. It may be noted that it is now in the
province of Venetia, whereas in Dante's time it belonged to
Lombardy.
After hearing of Miss Jones's dream, Mrs. Verrall compared
the script in detail with Rossetti's poem, Dante at Verona, of
which it had already reminded her. In the poem are described
his devotion to his native city and his fierce resentment against
those Florentines who by false accusations had procured his
banishment :
Arriving only to depart,
From court to court, from land to land,
Like flame within the naked hand
His body bore his burning heart
That still on Florence strove to bring
God's fire for a burnt offering.
Thus, the brief phrases of the script seem to constitute a
joint reference to Rossetti's poem and to the passage in the
Paradiso from which Rossetti selected one of the two mottoes
to his poem.
The instances of apparent telepathy between Miss Jones and
her sister, though slight and unfortunately not recorded at the
time, may, we hope, suggest to readers the desirability of
observing whether supernormal mental powers are occasionally
associated with abnormal physical conditions. It is sometimes
supposed that this is the case ;
but hitherto we have come
across little or no evidence of it. Our experience, on the other
hand, would tend to show that illness or a condition of
depressed vitality is a distinctly unfavourable state for the
manifestation of telepathy. But it is of course conceivable
that brain changes which lead to dissociations of consciousness
may sometimes facilitate the reception or emergence of tele-
pathic impressions, and if so, it would be useful to have
evidence of the fact.
16 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1913.
OBITUAKY : A. W. BOBBIE.
IT was with great regret that we received the news a few
weeks ago of the death of one of our earliest members, Mr.
A. W. Dobbie, of Adelaide, South Australia.
Mr. Dobbie was elected a member of the Society in 1885.
Before that time he had for several years studied and practised
hypnotism, and among his numerous subjects he found several
with remarkable clairvoyant or telepathic powers. The experi-
ments he carried out with them were carefully made and
carefully recorded ;
some of the most interesting ones were
printed in early numbers of the Journal from November, 1888,
onwards, and some of them also appeared in Mrs. Sidgwick's
paper
"
On the Evidence for Clairvoyance
"
in Proceedings,
Vol. VII., pp. 30 et seq., and in Mr. Myers's Human Personality.
It is greatly to be desired that experiments such as these
should be repeated and extended. Mr. Dobbie may have been
unusually fortunate in his subjects, or he may have had an
unusual power of stimulating their faculties, or at least their
interest in what he was attempting ;
but other operators working
on the same lines with the same zeal, perseverance, and hopeful-
ness that characterised him would perhaps be equally successful.
The whole subject of hypnotism was comparatively fresh in
those days, especially in Australia, and this may have helped
Mr. Dobbie to achieve success also in the alleviation of pain,
which was one of his chief aims. Thus, in one case, he
was able by post-hypnotic suggestion to produce so deep a
degree of anaesthesia that it was possible for a dentist to
extract several stumps of teeth at once the whole transaction
taking as much as a quarter of an hour without pain to the
patient. Mr. Dobbie contributed later an excellent report of
his investigation of the Australian medium, C. Bailey, which
was printed in the Journal for July, 1905.
During his last visit to England, in April, 1911, he informed
us that he had a large quantity of matter relating to his early
experiments in hypnotism, of which he was preparing a selec-
tion for publication. He was actively engaged on this work
at the time of his death, and though unfortunately much of the
connecting and explanatory material could, we understand, only
be supplied by himself, it is hoped that some of it may ultimately
be available for purposes of study by members of the Society.
No. CCXCVL VOL. XVI. FEBRUARY, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Meetings of the Society, 18
New Members and Associates,
- - -
'
,
- - - 18
Annual General Meeting of Members, - -
18
Mooting of the Council,
- - 19
Report of the Council for the year 1912, 20
Account of Receipts and Expenditure for 1912,-
- - 26
Endowment Fund for Psychical Research, Account for 1912,
- 27
Case, - 29
Sir W. F. Barrett on Swedenborg, .... - 32
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDAY, MARCH i$tht 1913, at 8.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"
Cross-Correspondences relating to
Works of Art
"
WILL BE READ BY
MISS ALICE JOHNSON.
N.B. No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
THE PAPER WILL BE ILLUSTRATED BY MAGIC LANTERX SLIDES.
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1913.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY.
Members of the Society will have learnt from the notice
circulated to them on Feb. 7th that the Meeting announced
for Feb. llth was unavoidably postponed, on account of the
serious illness of Dr. van Eeden's son, which made it impossible
for him to leave home. He hopes to be able to come and
read his paper to the Society later. As another paper could
not be arranged for at such short notice, it was decided to
expedite the date of the next meeting, which is announced on
the preceding page. The paper to be read at this meeting
will be illustrated by magic lantern slides of the subjects
referred to, which it is hoped will make them more easily
intelligible.
Professor Bergson, who has just been elected President of
the Society for the year 1913, will probably deliver his Presi-
dential Address some time during the latter half of May.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Parsons, A. J., Sycamore Farm, Clifton, York.
Thompson, Theodore, M.D., F.R.C.P., 94, Portland Place, Lon-
don, w.
BROWN, MRS. H. F., 18, Curzon Park, Chester.
COOPER, Miss LOUISA E., Ripponhurst, Epping, Essex.
FORD, MRS. HUGH, St. Regulus, St. Andrews, N.B.
GOUGH, A. B., Ph.D., Sandcroft, Upper Bridge Eoad, Redhill, Surrey.
TAYLOR, MRS., 33, Roland Gardens, London, S.W.
WALSH, A. DIGBY, Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.
YEATS, W. B., 18, Woburn Buildings, Tavistock Square, London,
W.C.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
THE Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Friday, January
31st, 1913, at 5 p.m.; MR. H. ARTHUR SMITH in the chair.
in; , 1913. Annual General Meeting of Members. 19
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Kev. M. A.
Baytield, Mr. E. N. Bennett, the Rev. A. T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence
I. Jones, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Miss
F. R. Scatcherd, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
Mrs. Verrall, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also Miss Alice Johnson,
Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Report of the Council for the year 1912 was read,
and is printed below. The audited account of income and
expenditure for the year 1912 was presented and taken as
read, and is also printed below.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members
of the Council offered themselves for re-election. No other
nominations having been received, the following were declared
to be duly elected Members of the Council : Mr. W. W.
Baggally, Mr. St. George Lane Fox Pitt, Lord Rayleigh, Mr.
Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 119th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, January 31st, 1913, at
4.30 p.m.; MR. H. ARTHUR SMITH in the chair. There were
also present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield,
Mr. E. N. Bennett, the Rev. A. T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence J. Jones,
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mrs. Verrall, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
After considering their Report for the year 1912, the
Council adjourned for the Annual General Meeting of Members
of the Society, and re-assembled at the conclusion of that
meeting.
The proceedings of the Annual General Meeting were reported.
Professor H. Bergson was elected President of the Society
for the year 1913.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick and the Hon. Everard Feilding, Hon. Secre-
taries ;
and Mr. Arthur Miall, Auditor for the current year.
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1913.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1913: the Eev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. G. Lowes
Dickinson, the Eev. A. T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr. W.
M'Dougall, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Professor Gilbert Murray, Mr.
A. F. Shand, Dr. V. J. Woolley, and Dr. M. B. Wright.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Eeference and Publication : The Eight Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Miss Jane Barlow, Sir William F. Barrett,
Sir William Crookes, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. W. Leaf,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Lord Eayleigh, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, and Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
Library Committee: The Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
House and Finance Committee : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, and Mr. H. Arthur Smith.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected
for the year 1913.
Two new Members and seven new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for December, 1912, were presented
and taken as read.
EEPOET OF THE COUNCIL FOE THE YEAE 1912.
THE total membership of the Society now stands at 1213, the
numbers being distributed as follows: Members, 286 (including
28 Honorary and Corresponding Members); Associates, 927
(including 10 Honorary Associates). During the year 13 new
Members were elected and 3 Associates became Members; 75
new Associates were elected and 9 Members became Associates.
On the other hand, the total loss in numbers from deaths,
resignations, and other causes was 31 Members and 110
Associates. It has happened during the last two years that
the membership of the Society has been to an unusual degree
reduced through the number of deaths.
In last year's report it was mentioned that the Council had
decided to sell the house property at Prescot, Lancashire, which
formed part of Mr. H. A. Kay's bequest to the Society. This
year the sale has been actually completed, and, as will be seen
from the annual account of receipts and expenditure appended
FEB., 1913. Report of the Council for the Tear 1912. 21
to this report, the amount realised was 2443 5s. This
sum has been invested, and now forms part of the
"
General
I-'iind."
One of the most important subjects studied by the
Society, that of Telepathy, is illustrated by Mrs. Yen-all's
paper,
"
A Month's Kecord of Automatisms," published in
the Proceedings (Part LXV.) in September, 1912. This gave
instances of apparently telepathic connections between her own
and Miss Verrall's scripts, and also veridical statements made
in the scripts, or occasionally through table-tilting, about circum-
stances unknown to the writers. Though these cases are not,
strictly speaking, experimental, since no deliberate attempt to
convey ideas to the minds of the writers was made by any one,
they are experimental in so far that the automatists write with
a view to seeing what will happen, and whether or not the
contents of the script will show evidence of supernormality.
And they have the great advantage that scripts are by the
nature of the case self-recording, so that whatever evidence
exists depends on contemporary documents, and not on the
recollections of the witnesses.
In regard to the important question of the possible part
played by chance in producing connections between scripts,
Miss Verrall last year made an examination of a series of
quasi-automatic writings by several different people, in which
each writing began with a quotation selected within limits
deliberately by the writer to serve as the starting-point of a
train of ideas. Under these circumstances it was extremely
improbable that the writings should have been influenced by
any telepathic action between the writers, so that any coin-
cidences that occurred between them would be almost certainly
accidental. A report of the slight coincidences that did actually
occur was printed in the Journal.
This year a similar series of writings was planned in such a
manner that any cause beyond chance for the coincidences should
be still more completely excluded. In this case the writings
consisted entirely of quotations from books, the books and the
passages from them being selected at random according to a pre-
arranged scheme, viz. in accordance with numbers drawn by
Miss Verrall at random from sets of numbers in a bag. The
problem then was to find what coincidences or similarities
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1913.
occurred between these numerous quotations, that is, what
coincidences had actually, in this particular series, been pro-
duced by chance, and consequently how much allowance it
would in general be reasonable to make for the probable action
of chance in producing coincidences of the same kind in genuine
automatic scripts. Miss Verrall's analysis of and report on
these experiments will shortly be printed in the Journal.
Several series of experiments in thought-transference of the
kind where one person deliberately attempts to convey definite
impressions to the mind of another have been carried on by
members of the Society during the year, but the results have
not been sufficiently successful to be worth publishing. It
would be rash to generalise on the subject with our present
knowledge; but it has undoubtedly happened that of late years
experiments involving some form of automatic action have as a
rule produced better results than those in which automatism
is dispensed with.
Some very interesting experiments, involving the spelling out
of words through a Oui-ja board, have recently been carried
out by the Dublin Local Section, and a preliminary report of
these was given at a meeting of the Society in December. In
this case the sitters were blindfolded to prevent their readily
seeing to what letters the Oui-ja board was pointing, and the
order and arrangement of the letters were often varied. Yet
coherent words and sentences were spelt out. The experiments
are being continued. In the meanwhile it would be well worth
while for other persons to try whether they can obtain similar
results ;
and also to try sometimes with the aid of sight and
sometimes without, and to compare what happens under the
two conditions.
A few investigations of professional or public performances
have taken place. Thus, a report of a sitting showing the
trick methods used by a medium who practises under the
name of
"
Zeno
"
was printed in the Journal for June, and
Mr. Baggally and Miss Newton recently attended a public
performance given by
"
Yoga Eama "
(formerly
"
Professor
Pickens"), for the demonstration of his alleged telepathic
powers, which they found to be easily explained by normal
means. Distasteful as the work of detection must always be,
the discovery and exposure of fraud still remains and perhaps
FEB., 1913. Report of the Council for tlie Year 1912. 23
will always remain one of the important functions of the
Society, and one of the duties which it owes to the public.
In the department of hypnotic research, the most important
event of the year has been the publication of the first Special
Medical Part of Proceedings, the first-fruits of the work of the
Medical Section of the Society, which was founded last year.
This included contributions from distinguished foreigners as
well as from medical experts more intimately connected with
the special work of the S.P.R A number of appreciative
comments on it have reached us, and the Part has already had
a considerable sale to outsiders. We hope that it will play a
part in stimulating the scientific study of hypnotism and
suggestion by medical men and psychologists a study which
in the past has owed so much to the S.P.R, in particular to
the labours of Mr. Gurney and Mr. Myers. Much advance has
been made in this subject of recent years, and it is extremely
important that the Society should keep in touch with all the
new work, much of which has a close bearing on the most
obscure problems of psychical research.
The therapeutic side of hypnotism must for the most part
be left to the medical profession, and in this connection an
interesting sign of the times is the foundation of a hypnotic
clinic under medical auspices at Liverpool for the treatment of
poor patients. But even in work of this kind the layman
can occasionally co-operate, as was shown by a paper read by
Mr. Bayfield to a meeting of the Society, in which he reported
some cases of the removal of pain and induction of sleep by
suggestion. In the most serious case the sanction of the
patient's doctor was obtained.
Another item allied with this topic is a series of interest-
ing and instructive experiments in self-suggestion which have
been reported to us by one of our members, a careful and
intelligent observer. These will probably form the subject of
a paper to be presented to the Society within the next few
months.
In order to help the work of the Medical Section, efforts
are made to keep the Library supplied with all the best books
dealing with the psychological side of medicine, both English
and foreign, as they appear. Of those already published, it
already possesses what is probably the best collection in Eng-
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1913.
land. A separate catalogue of this section of the Library is
being prepared for the use of medical men.
A number of reports of spontaneous cases, such as appari-
tions, dreams, telepathic impressions, premonitions, poltergeists,
"
haunted
"
houses, etc., have been received during the year,
and all possible efforts have been made to obtain confirmatory
evidence of the occurrences alleged, whenever from the nature
of the case such evidence was obtainable. It was found, as
usual, that cases obtained from newspaper sources were almost
always valueless, being generally either fabricated or so grossly
misstated that the facts, as they actually occurred, were not
even suggestive of any supernormal origin. The cases obtained
through private sources have been of much more value and
interest, and among these all that could be brought up to a
fair evidential standard have been, or will shortly be, printed
in the Journal, while in others the further evidence required
is still being sought for.
The physical phenomena of Spiritualism always present
special difficulties of investigation, for even where there is not
conclusive evidence of fraud, it is very difficult to obtain con-
clusive evidence of genuineness. But no reasonable oppor-
tunities of investigation have been neglected. More than one
member of the Council have independently had sittings with
Mrs. Wriedt, who claims that supernormal phenomena, both
physical and psychical, occur at her sittings. But the investi-
gators desire further evidence before reporting on them.
In the autumn Mr. Feilding paid a visit to Dr. Ochorowicz
at Warsaw and had five sittings with Miss Tomczyk, who
has been reported by Dr. Ochorowicz *
to possess remarkable
mediumistic powers. At two of these sittings a few slight levita-
tions occurred ;
the other three were blank. On his way home
Mr. Feilding was taken seriously ill, and this prevented his
going on to another investigation which had been planned, viz.
an examination of the so-called
"
thinking horses
"
of Herr
Krall, at Elberfeld. These animals have been trained by their
owner to spell out sentences and work complicated arithmetical
problems ; many foreign doctors and psychologists have visited
them and a great controversy has ensued as to whether any
x
ln a series of papers appearing in the Annales des Sciences Psychiques,
1909-1911.
in. I'M;;.
Report of the Council for the Year 1912. 25
real intellectual reasoning powers are involved or whether the
horses are guided by signs from their trainer. In the latter
case it would seem that the signs are given unconsciously and
involuntarily, and if so, an interesting analogy would appear
with experiments with human beings in what used to be called
"
thought-reading," or more properly
"
muscle-reading," when
one person is consciously or unconsciously guided by indica-
tions unconsciously given him by another. It is hoped that
some of our psychological members may later be able to make
independent experiments with these horses.
One of the objects of the Society is the collection and colla-
tion of existing materials for the history of the subject.
Under this head may be placed Count Solovovo's enquiry into
the alleged exposure of D. D. Home in France in 1858, about
which some facts hitherto unknown had lately been published.
These, with all the evidence on both sides that it was possible
to collect, were put together in a paper that appeared in the
Journal in July.
At about the same time the Society published a volume
containing a collection of all the Presidential Addresses
delivered since its foundation in 1882 to the year 1911 in-
clusive. These will be found especially useful for members
who have recently joined, and to outsiders, since they show
the aims and methods of the founders of the Society and give
information about some of the work accomplished.
The Society has suffered a great loss this year by the death
of one of its most brilliant and distinguished members, Mr.
Andrew Lang, whose Presidential Address concludes the volume
just referred to. A memorial article on his work in psychical
research will appear in the next Part of Proceedings.
An event of special interest this year has been the founda-
tion of a memorial to Eichard Hodgson at Harvard University.
Some of his friends in America gave contributions, amounting
in all to ten thousand dollars, to establish a fund, to be known
as the Kichard Hodgson Memorial Fund, the object of which
should be to promote Psychical Eesearch. In offering the fund
to the President and Fellows of Harvard College, the con-
tributors expressed their hope that preference would be given
,
in the expenditure of income to the endowment of investiga-
tion and research as distinguished from lectureships. The
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1913.
eg
i
'KB., 1913. Accounts of Receipts and Expenditure. 27
5 I
I
5
"
ill
I
21
IS
ccoun
Stock
abo fied
ed lso
L
Is
1
1
ENDOWMENT
oo
ooo oo
OS
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1913.
acceptance of this Fund by Harvard is particularly gratifying,
since it is the first time in our history that the work of the
Society has been formally recognised by a University of the
first rank.1
On this account and in the hope that it will prove
an important aid to psychical research, the Council voted a
contribution of five hundred dollars to it from the funds of
the Society. The President and Fellows of Harvard College
passed a formal vote of thanks to the Society for this dona-
tion, adding in an accompanying letter,
"
It is most gratifying
to have such a well known and competent body as yours show
interest and confidence in one of our activities."
The Endowment Fund for Psychical Eesearch, to which
further contributions would be welcomed, has not been added
to during the year except by the accretion of income derived
from the investments. It is still being allowed to accumulate
with a view to increasing the annual yield from dividends,
as with a larger permanent income the Council would be able
to employ more investigators on the permanent staff.
Two General and four Private Meetings of the Society (for
Members and Associates only) were held during the year. The
dates and subjects of the papers read were as follows :
*February 19th. "The Need for Advance in Psychology,"
by Dr. L. Forbes Winslow.
March 28th. "The Discovery of a hitherto unsuspected
Answer to the Horace Ode Question," by Mr. J. G.
Piddington.
*May 23rd. "Presidential Address," by the Eight Eev.
Bishop Boyd Carpenter, D.D.
July 8th. "Some Cases of the Eelief of Pain by Non-
hypnotic Suggestion," by the Eev. M. A. Bayfield.
November 8th.
"
Dr. Maxwell's Criticism of Cross-
Correspondences," by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
December 9th.
"
Eecent Experiments with the Oui-ja
Board," by Sir W. F. Barrett, F.E.S., and the Eev.
E. Savell Hicks.
* Those. marked with an asterisk were General Meetings.
do not forget Mr. Henry Seybert's bequest to the University of Penn-
sylvania to found a Chair of Philosophy with the condition that the Professor
should make an investigation of
" all systems of morals, religion or philosophy
which assume to represent the truth, and particularly of Modern Spiritualism."
But this was in no way connected with our Society.
FEB., 1913. Case. 29
CASE
P. 285. Impression.
THE following account of a premonitory impression which
resulted in the saving of several lives was sent to Sir Oliver
Lodge by Mr. John A. A. Williams, of Aberglaslyn Hall,
Beddgelert, North Wales, in a letter dated October 31st,
1912:
I have often thought of writing to tell you the following facts.
The story got into some of the papers, and I saw an account of it
in the Liverpool Courier which was not quite correct. Until last
year I was the principal proprietor of one of the largest slate
quarries in . I used to go up there occasionally to look
round with the Manager, who had the charge of them. On
Nov. 25th, 1910, I went up with my brother, and we both went
round with the Manager. On our return in the motor, my brother
was telling me about a "
shoot
"
he had been to, and I was listen-
ing attentively, as it was about a mutual friend. In the middle of
his telling me, I had a sort of message, and seemed to see a certain
portion of the quarry and the men in great danger. I interrupted
my brother and said, "Excuse me interrupting you, but I have had
the most extraordinary message, that those eight men we saw
working are in danger." He said, "But what do you know about
it ? The men have worked in the quarry for many years, and they
would know if it were dangerous; also the Manager and sub-agents
have been there many years and know the ground well." I said,
"I don't care. I shall stop at Post Office (after dropping
my brother) and will wire to the Manager to stop them working
"
My brother said,
" He will think you have gone perfectly mad," and
that I had never interfered with the working, etc., etc. ; however, I
did stop and I sent the wire. The Manager went to the eight (or
ten) men and said to the men, "It is an extraordinary thing, I
have received a wire, etc., from Mr. Williams. I cannot understand
it, but you must stop working at once," and the men were equally
surprised and took up their tools and left the ground. About half
an hour to three-quarters of an hour [later],
the whole of that ground
fell to the bottom of the quarry, about 120 yards, and all the
debris from above fell on top; nothing could have saved them no
warning. In the morning I had several telegrams, one from the
agent, saying, "good thing you sent wire, as all the ground gave
way shortly after the men left," and I had others to the same
effect. When I received them I lay on the sofa for a long time in
a highly nervous state, quite overcome. When I went up to the
quarry the next day to see the ground, one of the men came to
me on behalf of the others, to thank me for saving their lives.
JOHN A. A. WILLIAMS.
Through the efforts of Mr. J. Arthur Hill, who kindly undertook
to collect the evidence for this case, the original letters written
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1913.
to Mr. Williams next day by his brother, and by the agent
and manager of the quarry, were put into our hands, and we
give below copies of them :
(1) From the Agent.
Nov. 26, 1910.
I cannot tell you how glad I am that you sent that telegram
yesterday to the Manager, because all that ground came down in
about an hour after the men cleared away.
I went up to-day by the 12.40 train and saw a considerable
change there. For a length of about 20 yards the ground where
we and the men stood had all slipped away, so that it is now not
possible to walk the whole length of that side as we did yesterday.
We had to descend from close to the eating shed. Part of the wall
has also gone, exposing the piles : still there is no leakage of water
from the lake. The men are clearing right well from both ends.
We can only hope that the water will keep away for a little while,
until a temporary bit of dam can be made there. Somehow I feel
much calmer to-day, seeing how near we were to a greater disaster
the killing of 7 to 10 men. We must still hope for the best.
[P.$.] I have dropped further note to Mr. D. saying that a
further lot fell last night.
(2) From the Manager.
Nov. 26, 1910.
I was very glad to have your wire last night, as I was so anxious
about the safety of the men. They also were all very glad to hear
your order not to work in the dark. And, no doubt, it was very
fortunate that you did wire, because about an hour later the whole
of the place where they were working upon went down.
I wired you this morning to inform you that [a] great [deal] more
of the rubbish as well as a part of the piles and a part of the big
wall went down last night; fortunately the water still keeps back,
there are a few very small streams running down the clay side, it
is impossible to say whether these come from the actual lake or not,
we are setting small troughs to carry it over the clay. . . .
(3) From Mr. Williams's brother.
Monday [Nov. 28, 1910].
This morning I drove to the quarry. The position now seems to
me to be much more favourable than it was on Saturday. There
are no cracks known to exist in the face of the rocks. The gravel
will keep dropping until a natural face is formed. I certainly feel
to-night that, barring a big flood in the next fortnight, water will
not flood the quarry. G and all the men are doing their very
best to clear down to the virgin soil in the lowest water level part,
and I am sure if you could motor up again they would all be very
FEB., 1913. Case. 31
glad to see you, and I am sure your mind would be as much
relieved as mine is this evening. It is well you sent that wire. I
forgot to ask how much warning that part gave probably not much.
In reply to a question from Mr. Hill as to whether there
was any apparent danger of such an accident happening, Mr.
Williams wrote:
JV 3, 1912.
There is always danger [in] working in those quarries where the
sides are perpendicular for over 100 yards. There were no indica-
tions of any unusual danger, as my brother could bear me out. I
both spoke to the agent that day and also to the sub-agent, that on
no account was any risk to be run, if the place showed any indica-
tions of danger, and they both said they would not run the risk,
neither would the men. . . . The Manager and men knew the
ground well and they would not run any risk (unnecessary).
You will notice my Manager says in his letter, "I was very glad
to have your wire, as I was anxious about the safety of the men."
Why did he say that in his letter when he told us both that it was
quite safe and when I told him not to run any risk? . . .
The discrepancy pointed out by Mr. Williams is perhaps to
be explained by supposing that the Manager, after the cata-
strophe, blamed himself for not foreseeing it and imagined that
he had felt an anxiety beforehand, for which there seems to
have been no adequate grounds. In situations of this kind,
there may often be subconscious anxiety in the minds of the
persons concerned. It is conceivable that some such feeling
in the Manager impressed Mr. Williams telepathically, and
caused him to send the telegram. It is also conceivable that
Mr. Williams subconsciously noticed some indications of danger
when he visited the quarry, and that this gave rise later to
his sudden impulse to send the telegram.
In the letter just quoted, Mr. Williams gives two rough
drawings of a section through the quarry, showing the position
of the ground before and after the accident. The height of
the gallery on which the men were working is given as 340 feet
from the bottom of the quarry.
With a view to obtaining further evidence as to whether
there was any reasonable ground for expecting an accident,
Mr. Williams, who has taken a great deal of trouble to pro-
vide us with all the information possible, wrote to his brother to
ask for his present recollections of the incident, and sent us
his reply, which seems to show that at least neither of the
brothers was at all anxious about the condition of the quarry.
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB.,
SB., 1913.
1 1 O
L */ J. w
The letter is as follows:
My recollection of what occurred on Nov. 24th, 1910, when you
and I were returning from the quarry in a motor is that when pass-
ing about nine miles from the quarry, and I was telling
you about a shoot that I had been to, you suddenly interrupted
me and said something to the following effect: "Whilst you were
talking I had a curious sort of message that those men are in
danger, and that I shall send a wire to stop them working when I
get to ," and you went to the Post Office there and sent
the telegram to G instructing him to immediately stop the men.
The date Nov. 24, 1910, here given, is obviously a slip, as
the contemporary letters show that it was on Nov. 25, 1910,
that the accident occurred.
SIE W. F. BAEEETT ON SWEDENBOEG.
The lecture delivered by Sir William Barrett to the Sweden-
borg Society in the spring of 1912 has just been published
in book- form,
1
and gives a very interesting account of the life
and work of the philosopher, and the general upshot of his
teachings. Swedenborg was the son of a Swedish Professor of
Theology, who afterwards became a Bishop, and the first two-
thirds of his life were given to the pursuit of science. Like
some other men of genius who have similarly devoted themselves,
he was not only a master of the learning of his own age, but
in many respects he anticipated the discoveries and theories of
later generations. Sir William Barrett shows that both his
general conception of matter and his views, e.g., of heat and
magnetism, were comparatively modern, while he also made
valuable contributions to the study of anatomy, physiology and
psychology. He was besides a practised man of affairs, and
especially distinguished in the region of finance. After fifty
years spent in practical studies and affairs, Swedenborg gave
up active scientific investigation, and devoted himself thence-
forth to the study of mysticism and religion, his teachings on
which were derived from what he believed to be actual con-
verse with angels and departed spirits. An instructive and
discriminating summary of his philosophy forms perhaps the
most interesting part of the book, the whole of which may
be cordially recommended as an introduction to the study of
the great mystic.
1
Swedenborg : the Savant and the Seer, by Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. (John
M. Watkins, London, 1912. 72 pp., price 6d. in paper; Is. in cloth).
No. CCXCVIL VOL. XVI. MARCH, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CONTENTS.
PACK
The Element of Clianco in Cross-Correspondences : A Further Experiment. By
H. de G. Verrall, 34
Case, 41
The Psychical versus the Physical Theory of Dowsing. By Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., 43
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDAY, MARCH \$thy 1913, at 8.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"
Cross-Correspondences relating to
Works of Art
55
WILL BE READ BY
MISS ALICE JOHNSON.
N.B. No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
THE PAPER WILL BE ILLUSTRATED BY LANTERN SLIDES.
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1913.
THE ELEMENT OF CHANCE IN CROSS-CORRESPON-
DENCES: A FURTHER EXPERIMENT.
BY H. DE G. VERRALL.
IN my report on the "Element of Chance in Cross-Correspon-
dences" (Journal, S.P.R., December, 1911) I concluded with
the following words :
I assumed here, for the sake of argument, the intervention of a
supernormal agency; setting aside this assumption, as we are bound
to do according to the hypothesis upon which this whole experiment
is founded, the conclusion to be drawn from this incident is that
pure chance will occasionally give us a fairly good
"
cross-correspon-
dence "
of a simple type. But after all necessary discount for this
possibility has been made, the evidence for the intervention of some
supernormal agency in the production of automatic script remains
but little affected.
In a note appended to this report Miss Johnson says that
one of the writers concerned in the experiment, called in the
report C.,
since seeing the proofs, has told me of certain circumstances
which suggest that some of the coincidences detected by Miss
Verrall are not merely accidental, but due to telepathy.
In the Journal for July, 1912, Miss Johnson discusses this
question further, and concludes that it seems to her very
doubtful
whether C.'s literary preoccupations had any telepathic influence
on the [pseudo-Jscripts ;
there is no suggestion in them of any con-
nexion with her; .... On the whole it seems probable that the
correspondence between her thoughts and the [pseudo-Jscripts in
regard to the topic of the moon was only another coincidence, due
to chance alone.
Nevertheless, since the question of a possible telepathic con-
nexion between the pseudo-scripts had been raised, it seemed
desirable to arrange a further series of experiments in which
this possibility should be excluded.
As before, six people took part in the experiment, each pro-
ducing six pieces of pseudo-script, and to all I sent the
following
"
instructions."
MM:. I:M:?. The Element of Chance in Cross-Correspondences. 35
Several people have suggested that it would be desirable to try
some further experiments in regard to the element of chance in
cross-correspondences, analogous to those published in the Journal
(Dec. 1911). The difficulty in drawing conclusions from the earlier
experiments was that although under the circumstances telepathy
seemed very improbable, it was not absolutely excluded, and it was
possible therefore to ascribe such connexions as were found between
the [pseudo-Jscripts to this cause.
We propose to try another series of experiments in which every
agency but chance shall be completely excluded. The method to be
adopted is that each [pseudo-Jscript shall consist of a series of
quotations from books, the books and the passages for quotation
being determined by chance.
The books used should cover a fairly wide range of subjects,
books of a very technical character, dictionaries, etc., being excluded.
They should be divided into ten groups of ten, and so far as is
possible the same books numbered in the same order should be used
throughout each series of scripts.
The passages for quotation should be selected by means of the
numbers enclosed.
The 1st no. in each set denotes the group.
The 2nd no. denotes the position of the book in the group (1.
to r.).
The 3rd no. denotes the page of the book.
The 4th no. denotes the line on the page.
Supposing that the page number is 97 and that the book denoted
has not that number of pages, ten or any multiple of ten may be
deducted, so as to bring the page number within the compass
required, e.g. if the book had 81 pages, 20 would be deducted,
reducing the page number to 77.
If the page denoted has not the requisite number of lines, the
nearest preceding page which fulfils this condition may be taken
instead. If no page of the book selected has the requisite number
of lines, the nearest preceding book which fulfils this condition may
be taken instead.
Each passage should be about four lines in length (whether prose
or verse) beginning with the line denoted by the line number.
AY here the sense of the passage requires it the preceding line or
lines should be quoted. Full references should be given for each quota-
tion, and where characters are referred to by pronouns only their
names should be added in square brackets.
Each [pseudo-Jscript should consist of six quotations.
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1913.
To these instructions was appended a list of figures, which
I compiled myself by drawing numbers at random from a bag, and
I also wrote to each experimenter suggesting that some volumes
of standard poetry should be included amongst the selected books.
It will be seen that the instructions are so framed as to
leave nothing to the choice of the individual writer except the
selection of the hundred books from which the quotations are
to be taken, that is to say he has some discretion as to the
source of the quotations but none as to the particular passage
to be extracted or the topic with which it deals.
Pseudo-scripts compiled in this way may be expected to
differ in one important respect from pseudo-scripts compiled
according to the method employed in the earlier experiment.
When people are asked to set their minds adrift, as it were,
and write down whatever thoughts first come to them, the
ideas most likely to arise are those which are familiar and
full of associations. And this did, in fact, occur. The most
noteworthy of the coincidences observed in the first experi-
ment centred round the idea
"
moonlight," another was con-
cerned with "
dawn and sleep," and the pseudo-scripts were
full of well-known quotations. The probability of coincidences
between them was thereby increased. But where the choice
of quotations is determined by chance alone, this process of
natural selection will be wanting. It is far more probable
that we should obtain the quotation
"
To be or not to be,
that is the question," by asking a man to mention the first
quotation from Shakespeare that came into his head than by
asking him to open a copy of Shakespeare's plays at random
and read the first line on the left-hand page.
It is therefore much less probable that we shall find coin-
cidences between the topics, as distinct from the sources of the
quotations in this second series of pseudo-scripts than in the
first series, and it is also less probable, though in a minor
degree, that we shall find coincidences in this second series
than in
"
real
"
automatic scripts. These last, it is true, by
no means confine themselves to commonplace ideas, and their
ingenious display of learning has sometimes taxed the resources
of investigators to the utmost; nevertheless, they have, in the
normal associations of the various automatists, a considerable
common stock upon which to draw.
.MM; , !'.n:<. The, Element of Chance in Cross-Correspondences. 37
To conclude, therefore, the pseudo-scripts now under con-
sideration are, as compared with real scripts, less likely to
show coincidences of topic, because normal association of ideas
has played a very small part in their composition. How much
allowance should be made for this difference cannot be exactly
determined, because we cannot exactly determine, in the case
of automatic scripts, to what extent the minds of the various
automatists are likely, for one reason or another, to move
along the same lines of thought. But whatever allowance is
made, it does not seem to me that the result of this experi-
ment is such as to detract from the evidence for a super-
normal agency in the production of cross-correspondences. The
coincidences which I have observed between these pseudo-
scripts are not numerous, they do not seem to afford any
appreciable evidence of purpose or design, and they are chiefly
coincidences in regard to the source of the quotations, which
is what might be expected. It was likely that the various
selections of books would have some books in common,
especially as the experimenters were all asked to include a
certain amount of standard poetry.
I have made a careful comparison of these pseudo-scripts,
and most of the coincidences I have observed in them seem
to me far too slight to be worth reporting, e.g.
two scripts
contain allusions to Charles Darwin, but I can find no other
connexion between them. I give in detail the two best
examples, i.e. those which most nearly resemble cross-corre-
spondences, there being in each case more than one point of
coincidence.
For purposes of reference I shall speak of the writers of
the scripts as A., B., etc., and the scripts in each series were
numbered by their writers from 1 to 6. The date of their
production is of course a negligible factor. In most cases I
imagine all the scripts in each series were produced in the
course of a few hours. But for purposes of analogy and
comparison, it was necessary to devise some means of arbitrarily
grouping together pseudo-scripts from different series, just as
the scripts of different automatists may fall into a natural
group according to the date of their production. I decided,
therefore, before examining the pseudo-scripts, to regard as
contemporaneous those which had the same numerical position
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1913.
in the several series, i.e. A. 1, B. 1, etc., and similarly A. 2,
B. 2, etc.
I.
ST. AUGUSTINE, BURKE AND CHARLES I.
In this coincidence (I do not think that by any stretch of
liberality the name of
"
cross-correspondence
"
can be attached
to it) two writers are involved, A. and D. A. 5 includes a
quotation from the Confessions of St. Augustine, thus :
A. 5.
Yet suffer me to speak unto thy mercy, me, dust and ashes. Yet
suffer me to speak, since I speak to thy mercy and not to scornful
men. Thou too perhaps despisest me, yet wilt thou return and have
compassion on me.
St. Augustine is referred to on only one other occasion in
these pseudo-scripts, in D. 2 :
D. 2.
But of the genuineness of the life in its entirety we have no right
to doubt, contrary to the verdicts of the most distinguished scholars
whether Protestant or Catholic; and there is fair reason to suppose
that the document is that of which the great St. Augustine speaks.
(From Kingsley's Hermits. St. Anthony.)
D. 2 is linked with D. 4 by the fact that both of them
contain quotations from Burke's Speech on the Revolution in France,
and D. 4 and A. 5 both contain allusions to Charles I., who is
not referred to elsewhere in the pseudo-scripts.
Between James and his son the difference was one as well of prin-
ciple as of temperament. Charles, entirely devoid as he was of any
general conception of the course of European politics, had no eyes
for anything except the results, etc.
(From S. E/. Gardiner, History of England.)
,
1913. Tke Element of Chance in Cross-Correspondences.
Strafford. These tedious cares! Your Majesty
1
could spare them.
Nay pardon me, my King ! I had forgotten
Your education, trials, much temptation,
Some weakness : there escaped a peevish word
Tis gone : I bless you at the last.
(From II. Browning, Stratford.)
This quotation immediately precedes the quotation from The
Confessions of St. Augustine already given, so that A. 5 is linked
with D. 2 by the reference to St. Augustine and with D. 4
by the reference to Charles I., and D. 2 and D. 4 are linked
with each other because each contains a quotation from Burke's
XI
week on the Revolution in France (not quoted elsewhere).
Burke is also referred to in A. 5 and E. 3, but I cannot find
any further coincidences between these pseudo-scripts and those
quoted above.
II
RUSKIN AND THE ESSAYS OF ElIA, JOHNSON AND CARLYLE.
In this coincidence also two writers are concerned, D. and
F. D. 6 and F. 6,
"
contemporaneous
"
pseudo-scripts, both
contain quotations from Euskin and from the Essays of Mia
as follows :
D.6. ........
He thinks only of the return of the same phenomenon at the same
hour tomorrow. Household rumours touch him not. Some faint
murmur indicative of life going on within the house soothes, while
he knows not distinctly what it is. He is not to know anything.
(From Lamb, Essays of Elia. The Convalescent.)
I suppose most of it
[the iron work] is of the 17th century ;
still
it is very quaint and beautiful. Here for example are two balconies
from two different houses. One has been a cardinal's, and the hat
is the principal ornament of the balcony.
(From Ruskin, Two Paths.)
F.6.
Now turn back to Bewick's Venus and compare her with the
Tuscan Venus of the stars and then with the Tuscan Venus of the
l
l.e. Charles I.
913.
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAK., 1913.
seas and the Greek Venus of the skies. Why is the English one
vulgar? (From Ruskin, Ariadne Florentina.}
She calls the servant Sir and insists on not troubling him to hold
her plate. The housekeeper patronises her. The children's governess
takes upon her to correct her.
(From Lamb, Last Essays of Elia. Poor Relations.)
The connexion here is solely in the source of the quotations.
I have thought it worth mentioning because it contains three
elements, the
"
date
"
of the pseudo-scripts and the double
coincidence of authors. Moreover, D. 6 is also connected with
F. 3 in a manner very slightly suggestive of design, such as I
have been able to find in no other case.
In F. 3 there is a quotation from Carlyle, immediately
followed by a quotation from Boswell's Life of Johnson, thus :
F.3.
The bulky Weissnichtwo Packet arrived here in perfect safety free
of cost. The reader shall now fancy with what hot haste it was
broken up, with what breathless expectation glanced over.
(From Carlyle, Sartor Resartus.)
I beg therefore you will favour me with a letter tomorrow, that
I may know what you can afford to allow him, that he may either
part with it to you or find out (which I do not expect) some other
way more to his satisfaction.
(From Boswell, Life of Johnson.)
In D. 6 the quotation from the Essays of Elia given above
is
immediately preceded by a quotation from Carlyle relating
to Dr. Johnson.
J9.6.
Had Johnson left nothing but his dictionary one might have traced
there a great intellect, a genuine man. Looking to its clearness of
definition, its general solidity, honesty, insight and successful method,
it may be called the best of all dictionaries.
(From Carlyle, On Heroes.)
He thinks only of the return of the same phenomenon, etc.
There is a simulation of purpose in thus combining in one
, 1913. The Element of Chance in Cross-Correspondences. 41
quotation the two authors who have been referred to in succes-
>iv(
quotations in an earlier pseudo-script, F. 3, and the coin-
cidence is strengthened by the fact that D. 6, as noted above,
contains a double coincidence with F.'s contemporary pseudo-
script F. 6.
It is, as I have said, impossible to formulate any exact
standard of comparison between the pseudo-scripts and real
scripts, and comparison is even more difficult in this experiment
than in the earlier one, because the material under consideration
is even more unlike real script. But in so far as any comparison
can be made, the conclusion to be drawn seems to me much
the same as in the earlier experiment, that in estimating the
evidential value of cross-correspondences a small allowance must
be made for coincidences due to chance alone, but that it is
impossible to suppose that the whole mass of them can be
ascribed to that agency.
CASE.
L. 1195. Dream.
THE following case of a veridical dream was reported to Sir
Oliver Lodge by the percipient, Mr. W. E. Perry, in a letter
dated February 3rd, 1913. Mr. Perry's account is as follows:
18 PALMERSTON ED., SPARKBROOK,
Feb. 3rd, 1913.
On Thursday morning last at about 8.0 I was on the point
of getting up when I suddenly dropped asleep again and dreamt
that my father (deceased 10 years) came to me and, immediately
after, I saw a telegram which contained the words "
Come Grannie."
I at once seemed to look for the sender's name but could not make
out the name.
My father seemed connected somehow with the message, and yet
the telegram was not in any one's hands but simply lay against the
surrounding dark.
On awaking I told my wife that her grandmother was worse and
related the dream. I enclose the telegram [which fulfilled the dream].
I had a similar experience at the death of my father, but then I
heard my name distinctly called three times, and so distinctly the
third time that I was awake when I heard it.
W. E. PERRY.
913.
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1913.
The telegram, now in our possession, is worded Come
Grannie sinking rapidly unconscious. It is stamped
"
Spark-
brook, Birmingham, Jan. 30, '13," and is timed as having
been handed in at Derby Ed., Longeaton, at 8.50 a.m., and
received at Sparkbrook at 9.15 a.m.
In reply to an enquiry from Sir Oliver Lodge as to the
time when he told his wife of the dream, Mr. Perry writes :
18 PALMERSTON RD., SPARKBROOK,
BIRMINGHAM, Feb. 4th, 1913.
.... The time at which I told her was between 8.30 and 8.40.
I could not tell to a minute or two, as while I quite expected the
dream to be fulfilled, I was not thinking of it as a case for the
Psychical Research Society. It was only after I had seen my wife
off at the station that I remembered some of the cases in your
" Survival of Man," and decided to communicate with you.
W. E. PERRY.
Mrs. Perry corroborates as follows :
Feb. 19 to, 1913.
On the morning of Jan. 30th my husband told me that he had
dreamt that Grannie was worse and he had seen a telegram which
asked for me to come. This was soon after 8.30 a.m., and the
telegram came about three-quarters of an hour later, while we were
at breakfast. At the time he told me of the dream I attached no
special importance to it, but thought the coincidence strange when
the telegram came.
WINIFRED A. PERRY.
We asked Mr. Perry whether his grandmother's condition
was causing him any anxiety at the time of his experience,
and his reply is as follows :
18 PALMERSTON RD., SPARKBROOK,
BIRMINGHAM, Feb. I9th, 1913.
I may say that we knew Grandmother was breaking up, her
age being 87, and should not have been surprised to hear of her
death, but we were not anticipating the end to be so near. Grand-
mother had been able to get about well up till about a week prior
to Jan. 30th, and both my wife and I thought that a few days in
bed would enable her to recover strength as previously. The death
took place on Friday morning at 4.10, Feb. 7th.
W. E. PERRY.
M.\K., 1913.
Psychical versus Physical Theory of Dowsing. 43
THE PSYCHICAL VERSUS THE PHYSICAL
THEORY OF DOWSING.
BY SIR W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.
THK following interesting letter addressed to me by Professor
Hoernle', M.A., who holds the Chair of Philosophy in the
Armstrong College, confirms the theoretical conclusions to which
I was led in my investigation of the nature of the dowsing faculty.
As will be seen by reference to the Proc. S.P.R. (Vol. XV.,
p. 314 (7) and also Appendix E, p. 359), I attribute the success
of a good dowser to his possessing a subconscious supernormal
perceptive power. Usually the clairvoyant faculty of the
dowser if such it be, as I maintain does not rise to the
level of conscious perception, but evokes an obscure emotion,
or other nervous disturbance, which reveals itself in a
transitory malaise, or muscular spasm, and the latter causes
the twisting of the forked rod. In some cases, however, there
is a conscious perception of the underground water, or other
hidden object of which the dowser is in search. This
apparently occurs in the case of the young Dutch boy referred
to in Professor Hoernl^'s letter.
ARMSTRONG COLLEGE,
NEWCASTLE-ON-TYNE, Dec. 22, 1912.
As an Associate of the S.P.R. and a reader of your Report on
the use of the Divining Rod in the Proceedings of the Society,
may I submit to you a remarkable case of water-finding by what
appears to be clairvoyance, which was brought to my notice in
South Africa
1
?
In October, 1911, about 2J months before I left S. Africa (Cape
Town) for good, I received a letter (in Dutch) from a resident at
Paarl, a small country town about 60 miles from Cape Town, in
which he told me of a boy, aged about 11 (I think) who could find
water by "seeing" it. On my taking the letter to Mr. P. J. du
Toit, Professor of Dutch at the South African College, Cape Town,
I learnt that the case was well known to the Professor, because the
boy in question lives in the Orange Free State on a farm close to
one belonging to Prof, du Toit's brother.
I summarise the facts as told me by Prof, du Toit. When the
boy was about 5 years of age, his father, finding the three wells on
his farm inadequate, started digging for another without success.
The boy came running to his mother :
"
Why does father dig there ?
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1913.
There is no water there. He ought to dig here. There is water
here," and he pointed to a spot some yards away from where the
father was digging. At first no one paid attention, taking it for
childish prattle. But the boy insisted, and his curiously positive
conviction finally impressed the parents so much, that they dug at
the spot indicated, where, in due course, they struck a plentiful
supply. At first they were upset, believing it as
" backveld
"
Boers
are quite likely to do a case of diabolical possession, but the
minister of the Dutch Reformed Church had the good sense to
reassure them. The story presently came to be bruited about the
countryside; other farmers, either from curiosity or because them-
selves in need of fresh wells, asked the boy to visit their farms
and indicate water. As a result, the parents soon lost their
superstitious terror, and in fact ended by making a business of their
son's
"
gift," by now, no doubt, regarded as " divine." At any rate,
I was told that the fee payable to the father is <5 for three
indications ; money returned in case of failure. Many farmers,
according to my informant, and also villages have successfully
availed themselves of the boy's services. Of failures I could hear
nothing only of an alleged failure. When that was reported to
the boy he insisted that they must have dug at the wrong spot,
and revisiting the locality, he is said to have indicated as the
original spot a spot about one yard away from the one where the
people had dug, and at this original spot water was duly found.
The boy employs no rod or any other instrument or device. He
is said to
" see
"
the water simply as if there were no solid soil
between him and it at all. He will point to the slope of a "
kopje
"
and trace the line of a subterranean water-course, as if it were on
the surface. And he speaks of seeing the water "
gleam
"
and
sparkle as if it were in the sunlight. He estimates the volume at
least sufficiently to advise his employers whether it is worth their
while to dig or not. I could not get certain evidence as to whether
he can tell accurately how deep down they have to dig before they
strike water. Also, I could not ascertain whether he is in a trance
or in any other way in an abnormal condition when "
seeing
"
water.
But he was described as, apart from the gift, a perfectly normal
and healthy child. Needless to say, he has no geological knowledge
of any kind.
E. F. ALFRED HOERNLE.
As Professor Hoernle asks for a similar case, I will quote
the following sent to me some time ago by the late Dr.
I'.M:I.
Psychical versus Physical Theory of Dowziny. 45
Hodgson from America. I had previously seen reports of
this case in the American newspapers and had asked Dr.
Hodgson if he could obtain further particulars for me.
HOUSE OF KKIM:I-:SI-:NTATIVKS,
AUSTIN, TEXAS, Feb. 8, 1901.
DR. KICHARD HODGSON.
DEAR SIR, In reference to the published newspaper account of
the wonderful and unexplained gift of Guy Fenley, who can see
water at any distance under the earth's surface, I have to say that
my experiments have convinced me that he possesses this power
of sight. I know that he can see through any substance and locate
water beneath; also that he has located a number of good water
supplies in localities in West Texas where water is almost an
unknown luxury. There are many responsible people of Uvalde,
Texas, and other places in that section of the State who have seen
this wonderful sight displayed, and know that there is nothing
mythical about it. I shall be glad to give you any detailed
information concerning this boy and his wonderful gift, if you will
inform me definitely as to what you desire on the subject.
Yours truly,
JOHN N. GARNER
(Member of House of Representatives).
I was unable to obtain any further information about this
case beyond the reports in the local newspapers. Other cases
of the dowser apparently seeing underground water are to be
found in the history of the so-called divining rod. Some of
these are quoted in my Keports, see especially Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. XV., p. 363 et seq. In Appendix E to that Eeport, some
successful experiments are recorded wherein the clairvoyance
of the dowser, Mr. J. F. Young, was specially tested. Further,
as shown in Appendix F, the ancient Zahoris were persons who
apparently had this gift of clairvoyance.
Count Carl von Klinckowstroem of Munich, who has had
some previous correspondence with me, has a paper on the
"
Divining Eod in Germany
"
in the December number of the
Journal. Judging from information I received as to the interest
excited in various quarters in France, Germany, and Scandinavia,
after the publication of my Eeports, in 1897 and 1900, the
Count is, I think, mistaken in supposing that
"
the attention
of all Germany" was first drawn to the dowsing rod in 1902
46 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAR., 1913.
by the publication of an article in a German weekly journal
called Prometheus. However that may be, there is no doubt
considerable public interest was excited in Germany when
Herr G. Franzius employed Herr v. Biilow-Bothkamp to locate
the site for a well in Kiel Dockyard. From the contemporary
report of the proceedings which I have seen, the experiments
then made hardly appear to justify Herr Franzius becoming,
as Count v. Klinckowstroem says he is,
"
an enthusiastic
adherent of the dowsing rod." But from whatever cause his
conviction arose, it is certainly very gratifying to find men in
the high position of Herr G. Franzius and others in Germany
taking so deep an interest in this subject. Our hearty thanks-
are due to Count Carl v. Klinckowstroem for his successful
efforts in forming a society in Munich for the investigation of
dowsing; a society which, he tells us, now numbers over 350
members of all nationalities.
I am also very glad to hear what the Count says,
"
that
we in Germany have considerably advanced the problem of
the dowsing rod during the last few years," and it is to be
hoped he will embody the results in a paper for our Proceedings*
In the explanation of the subject I venture to differ entirely
from the view expressed by the Count, who remarks :
"
We
do not believe that the . . . solution of the problem lies in a
supernormal psychical gift of the dowser, but in the physical
influence of the soil acting on him." I can find no evidence
of any value to support this view. On the contrary, the
evidence points to the fact that neither soil, nor water, nor
metals, etc., etc., have any specific physical influence on the
dowser. Some stoutly maintain that electricity, and some
that radio-activity, is the true explanation ;
but these and
other physical causes are found to be inoperative when proper
precautions are taken to avoid the influence of suggestion, and
the dowser is a very
"
suggestible
"
person. Moreover, at different
periods and in different places the dowser has been employed
to discover all sorts of objects, from buried treasure to mineral
oil springs.
There is abundant trustworthy evidence, some of which I
have cited in my reports, and others subsequently in the
Journal, to show that coins, and hidden objects of various
kinds, can be located by a good dowser, far more often than
r.n:*.
Psychical versus Physical Theory of Dowsing. 47
chance coincidence will account for. I would ask Count v.
Klinckowstroem how he would explain by a "physical influence of
the soil
"
acting upon the dowser the experiments recorded in my
paper
"
On the detection of hidden objects by Dowsers" published
in the Journal, S.P.R., for Jan. 1910, Vol. XIV., p. 183 et seq.
Here I may cite an interesting case from an amateur lady
dowser, a friend of mine, Miss F. M. Turner, who writes to
me as follows :
HOPTON COURT,
near WORCKSTER, April 11, 1911.
A little while ago a valuable turquoise and diamond ring was lost,
on a hockey ground, by the daughter of the Vicar of Pershore, in
Worcestershire. The ring had been given her to take care of while
her friend was playing hockey, and the loser was naturally greatly
distressed. Long and repeated search was immediately made for the
missing ring, but it was without result, and all hope of ever seeing
the ring again was abandoned. The loser one day chanced to hear
of my "divining" powers, and at once wrote to me, and I consented
to go and see if I could help in such a minute search. The day
was a very stormy one, and I had only time to carefully walk back-
ward and forward by the pavilion and mark one place where my
rod turned in my hand, when a very heavy storm of hail arid rain
came on, and when it was over the ground was so wet and muddy
we could not properly examine the spot I had marked also, I had
to catch my train. Next day the lady and her sister went back to
the place with a garden fork, and the very first sod they moved
contained the ring ;
it had been trodden into the ground half an
inch, and was only three inches away from the spot marked by me
the day before. ... I must confess that I was as surprised as
everyone else that such a small thing as a ring could be found by
the rod in such a large tract of ground as the hockey field.
FLORENCE M. TURNER.
I asked Miss Turner to obtain corroborative evidence, and
she forwarded to me the accompanying letter from the loser
of the ring. The letter, it will be seen, was written to Miss
Turner before her letter to ine, and immediately after the
discovery of the ring.
THE VICARAGE, PERSHORE, March lltli, 1911.
DEAR Miss TURNER, It seems almost too good to be true, but
the ring is found. My sister and I have just been down to the
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1013.
field and went straight to the place where you said there was some-
thing. I gave the fork to my sister, while I felt some of the turf
we had already turned up with my fingers, and the first sod she
turned up contained the ring ! It was about half an inch from the
surface, and only three inches away from where you had stood. I
can't tell you how delighted I am nor how very grateful I am to
you for being the means of my finding it. I am certain that but for
you it would never have been found, and I should always have had
this weight on my mind ;
now I feel so much lighter without it.
I wish there were anything I could do to show you my gratitude.
I can't express it in words. I am so glad to have the actual stick
which you found it with, and I shall always keep it, as it did so
much for me.
Believe me,
Yours sincerely,
MARY LAWSON.
If chance coincidence be the explanation of such a case as
the foregoing much would depend upon the area of the ground
over which the loser of the ring had walked before the loss
was discovered. Possibly it was not more than a few square
yards, but, even so, prolonged search at the time under favour-
able circumstances failed to discover the ring, whereas after
some time had elapsed and the ring had been trodden into
the ground, and under most unfavourable conditions of weather,
Miss Turner located the exact position of the ring, although
she was a stranger and had not been present when the ring-
was lost.
This incident, if it stood alone, might nevertheless be attri-
buted to a lucky hit, but, taken in conjunction with the other
evidence cited in the paper I have referred to in the Journal,
it adds another stick to the large bundle of evidence on behalf
of the reality, and also of the psychical theory, of dowsing.
No. CCXCVIIL VOL. XVI. APRIL, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, 50
Meeting of the Council, 50
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, . ... - 51
Case, . - - - - - 51
Musical Prodigies and Automatism, 56
Obituary : The Earl of Crawford and Balcarres, K.T., F.R.S., - 64
Professor Bergson's Presidential Address, 64
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On TUESDAY, APRIL 22nd, 1913, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" A Study of Dreams
"
WILL BE READ BY
DR. FREDERIK VAN EEDEN.
N.B. No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1913*
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Romanes, N. H., Christ Church, Oxford.
BERRINGTON, THE REV. LESLIE G., Villa Serenisha, 29, Beauchamp.
Avenue, Leamington Spa.
COOPER, MRS. P. H., 283, South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
HALL, REGINALD D., 29, Dryden Street, Westcott Street, Hull.
HOLDING, SAM, Columbia, Tenn., U.S.A.
HUMPHREYS, T. H. A., Survey Department, Giza (Mudiria), Egypt,
LIBRARIAN, University of Minnesota Library, Minneapolis, Minn.,
U.S.A.
MAHLER, MRS. JOHN, Bronygarth, Oswestry, Salop.
OVERTON, MRS. WINFIELD S., 340, E. 31st Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
POOLEY, MRS. THOMAS E., Fernhill, Victoria, B.C., Canada.
SIMMONDS, Miss C. E., 33, Clarence Gate Gardens, Baker Street,.
London, N.W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 120th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, March 13th, 1913, at
5.30 p.m.; MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Right Hon. Gerald
W. Balfour, the Rev. A. T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Dr.
F. C. S. Schiller, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and
Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Research Officer,,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
One new Member and ten new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The Council filled the vacant place among their elected
Members caused by the death of the Earl of Crawford and
Balcarres by appointing to it Mr. W. M'Dougall, hitherto a
co-opted Member.
APRIL, 1913. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 51
The monthly accounts for January and February, 1913,
were presented and taken as read.
Professor J. H. Muirhead was elected an Hon. Associate.
PKIVATE MEETING FOE MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 43rd Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20
Hanover Square, London, W., on Thursday, March 13th, 1913,
at 8.30 p.m.; the EIGHT HON. GERALD W. BALFOUR in the
chair.
Miss ALICE JOHNSON read a paper on "
Cross-Correspon-
dences relating to Works of Art," which was illustrated by
lantern slides. The paper read was a portion of one which
will, it is hoped, be published later in the Proceedings.
CASE.
P. 286. Dream.
THE following account of an apparently prophetic drearn has
been sent to us by Miss "
Ann Jones." Two cases, apparently
of telepathy, in which Miss Jones was concerned, were pub-
lished in the Journal for December, 1912.
The names and addresses of all the persons concerned in
the present case are known to us, but pseudonyms or initials
are used here. The dates of several of the events recorded
below are determined by contemporary entries in Miss Jones's
diary, which she has kindly allowed us to see.
Miss Jones writes :
November 20//t, 1912.
On Monday, July 1st of this year, I went to stay in Gloucestershire
with my friend Mrs. D. I was not at all well while I was there,
suffering from headache, a low temperature, and general fatigue.
I left her on the following Saturday, July 6th, and went to stay in a
farmhouse in North Wales, in the mountains. For some days 1 was
alone, and was then joined by my sister E. I took with me the
MS. of a volume of poems by Mr. M., which on Thursday, July
llth, I arranged and annotated, as it was a wet day and I was
not able to go out at all. I posted them to him the following
day, July 12th, so that they would reach him on the afternoon of
July 13th.
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1913.
On the night between Monday 15th and Tuesday 16th, I dreamed
that I was alone late at night in the hall of Mrs. D.'s house. The
lights were low, it was nearly dark, but I knew that some one was
expected. After some time there arrived many people in a motor
or motors, including Mrs. D. and her brother G. All these people
were in evening dress. With them, or after them, came Mr. M. in
very dusty tweeds. We all had supper together, and Mr. M. asked
me if I would come away to some quiet room, as he had something
to show me. When we got away he showed me a large folio of
brown-coloured paper with very heavily drawn brightly coloured
illustrations, wood block prints, rather like the old chap-book colour
illustrations. It was an illustrated edition of his poems.
On the following Saturday, July 20th, I received a letter from
Mr. M. telling me that a young artist, having seen one of the
poems, had drawn a picture for it, and had asked to see the whole
collection. On Monday, July 22nd, I heard from Mrs. D. She
told me of a house party she had been entertaining since I had
left. On the night of Monday, the 15th, they had gone for a drive
in two cars after dinner, and their chauffeurs had lost the way, so
that they did not return until after midnight.
On Saturday, July 27th, I came back to London, and on Monday,
July 29th, Mr. M. shewed me a complete MS. illustrated edition
[of his poems]
l
such as I saw in my dream, drawn by the young
artist during the week between July 20th and 26th.
I had not written to Mr. M. of my dream.
I knew that Mrs. D. had a house-party.
[Signed] ANN JONES.
The dream itself is not recorded in Miss Jones's diary, but
she distinctly remembers telling it to her sister during a
particular walk which they took together. The walk is re-
corded in the diary as having occurred on July 16, 1912.
Miss E. Jones confirms the above statement as follows :
[November, 191 2.
2
]
On July 16, 1912, during a walk we took together to T , my
sister [Ann] told me of a dream she had had on the preceding
night.
1 These were the poems which Miss Jones had arranged and annotated on
July 11, 1912. (See above.)
2
This statement was received by us on November 21, 1912, and had been
written a week or two before.
I'.n:;. Case. 53
She was staying at a friend's country house, at which, in the
evening, Mr. M., together with a party of motorists, turned up. He
was carrying a very large brown paper parcel, and promised to show
her afterwards what it contained. This proved to be a khaki-coloured
book of his own poems, with coloured illustrations to them.
[Signed] E. JONES.
Subsequently Miss Ann Jones, having made various enquiries,
wrote the following statement :
February 13, 1913.
Since writing the account of my dream, I have been to visit my
friend in Gloucestershire again, and verified from her Visitors' Book
the following dates. I have also met the artist who drew the illus-
trations, and have from his diary obtained the other verifications.
I dreamed the dream in question on the night between July 15
and 16 [1912]. In Mrs. D.'s book the midnight motor-party is
noted as taking place between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. on that night.
Her letter to me relating the circumstance of this drive is dated the
following Sunday, July 21, 1912.
Mr. F., the artist, met Mr. M., the poet, for the first time on
Thursday, July 11, 1912 ^ on Thursday, July 18, 1912, Mr. M. went
to his studio, and during that visit Mr. F. made his first sketch for
the poems. He did not see the complete MS. until Sunday, July 21,
1912, when he visited Mr. M. and took the poems home, working
on the illustrations during the three following days. I saw them
for the first time on Monday, July 29, 1912.
The diary of events therefore runs :
Thursday, July 11, 1912. I arranged MS. of Mr. M.'s poems in
Wales. Mr. F. meets Mr. M. for the first time in London.
Saturday, July 13, 1912. MS. reaches Mr. M. by post.
Monday, July 15, 1912. Break-up of the house-party at Mrs. D.'s,
celebrated by midnight motor drive.
I dream in Wales of the drive and of the illustrations [to Mr.
M.'s poems].
Tuesday, July 16, 1912. I tell my sister of the dream.
Thursday, July 18, 1912. Mr. M. visits Mr. F.'s studio in London,
and the first sketch for one poem is made in Mr. M.'s presence.
Saturday, July 20, 1912. I receive a letter from Mr. M., telling
me that an artist had drawn an illustration to one of his poems
iThe date of this, and of his subsequent meetings with Mr. M., are
recorded iu Mr. F.'s diary.
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1913.
Sunday, July 21, 1912. Mr. F. visits Mr. M. near London, and
sees the whole MS. [of his poems] for the first time.
Monday, July 22, 1912. I receive in Wales a letter from Mrs. D.
and remark on my dream [to my sister].
Monday, July 29, 1912. Mr. M. shows me in London the large
brown paper volume, which I recognise.
[Signed] ANN JONES.
Mr. M. confirms Miss Jones's account as follows :
February 13, 1913.
I confirm the correctness of the above statement, so far as it
relates to me.
[Signed] W. M.
Mrs. D. also confirms the statement, as follows :
Feb. 25, 1913.
All I can tell you about the night of July 15, 1912, is as follows:
I was at my house in the country . . . and I had at the time
my brother, my niece, and three friends staying with me. The
weather was very good just then; and as the evening of the 15th
was very clear and hot, at dinner we decided to drive to B ,
which is about twenty-two miles away. We started at 9.30, and
intended to get home about 11.30; but we missed our way, when
we started to come back, and, after many adventures, we reached
C at 2 o'clock in the morning. A few lights had been left on,
and one servant had waited up to let us in. I did not write and
tell [Miss Jones] about our drive till the following Sunday. . . .
[Signed] K. D.
Mrs. D. afterwards told us in reply to a question that the
date of the motor drive was noted in her diary.
On February 13, 1913, Mr. M. stated, in reply to questions,
that
(a) until the suggestion was made to him by Mr. F. on
July 11, 1912, no idea of having any illustrations to the
poems which were about to be published had entered his mind ;
(b) the first meeting between Mr. F. and himself on July
11, 1912, was accidental, and nothing was said on this occa-
sion about illustrating the poems. In fact, Mr. F. was not at
that time familiar with any of Mr. M.'s poetry;
(c) it was not until July 21, 1912, that a definite sug-
gestion was made as to an illustrated edition.
1913. Case. 55
Mr. F. confirms the above statements as follows, having
verified the dates in his diary :
March 14, 1913.
July 11, 1912. I meet W. M. for the first time. No reference
made to drawings or even to his poems.
July 18. W. M. comes to my studio, and I draw a suggestion
for a frontispiece for him. Still no mention of illustration.
July 21 (Sunday). Motor down to A. and call on M. Mention
is then made of illustration, [I] having seen and appreciated the
MS. of his poems.
July 22. Start the illustrations.
July 25. Finish illustrations by 10.30.
[Signed] L. F.
The illustrations, one of which we have seen, are, as de-
scribed by Miss Jones, brightly coloured with a dark outline.
They were mounted by Mr. F. on sheets of brown paper, bound
together to form a book, corresponding in general appearance
to the
"
large folio of brown coloured paper
"
which figured in
Miss Jones's dream.
It will be seen from the above report that the dates of
all the main incidents are determined by entries in the
diaries of one or other of the people concerned. The chrono-
logical sequence of events in this case is interesting. Miss
Jones's dream occurred on the night of July 15-16, 1912,
and included a veridical impression concerning an almost, if
not quite, contemporaneous event, the return from the motor
drive at Mrs. D/s house, which is recorded as having taken
place at about 2 a.m. on July 16, 1912. The rest of Miss
Jones's dream related to an event which did not actually occur
until a fortnight afterwards, on July 29, 1912, and which it
does not seem that any one had any normal reason to
foresee at the time of the dream. It should be noted,
however, that the first accidental meeting between Mr. M.
and Mr. F. that is, the first recognisable link in the
chain of events leading up to the fulfilment of the dream
occurred on July 11, 1912, a few days before the dream,
At a time when Miss Jones's thoughts were occupied with
Mr. M.'s poems, which she arranged and annotated that day
(see above).
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1913.
Three possible explanations of these events suggest them-
selves :
(1) That they are due to chance coincidence. This explana-
tion seems improbable, considering that the parallel between
Miss Jones's dream and what actually happened is very close,
and that the dream related to an incident which at the time
of her dream Miss Jones had no normal reason to foresee.
Mr. M. has published several volumes of poetry, but never any
with illustrations, except a frontispiece.
(2) That Miss Jones was able in her dream to foresee in
some supernormal way a future event.
(3) That Miss Jones was able, also in some supernormal
way, to influence the mind either of Mr. M. or of Mr. F. in
such a way as to bring about the fulfilment of her dream,
which would otherwise have remained unfulfilled. We should
then regard the case as one of telepathy, Miss Jones being the
agent. But the telepathic hypothesis must be stretched very
far to cover such a case.
MUSICAL PRODIGIES AND AUTOMATISM.
THE following account of the musical prodigy, Eric Korngold,
is extracted, with the Editor's permission, from an article in
The Manchester Guardian of December 12th, 1912:
Last summer I was staying at an Austrian villa overlooking the
blue waters of the Giundelsee, not far from Ischl, the country seat
of the Emperor Franz Josef. My host was something of a celebrity-
hunter, and used to invite to his house as many as he could catch.
Amongst others came Eric Korngold, the musical prodigy. Having
heard much about him and his extraordinary genius, I was curious
to see him and his parents, for I wondered whether he had inherited
any of his great gifts from them. For some weeks I saw him every
day, at meals, out of doors, by the lake, driving and walking; sa
I had plenty of opportunities to study him. My first impression
was one of keen disappointment. [He was] a rotund and podgy
boy of the "awkward age," with a pale face, piercing black eyes
(one with a distinct glide), and dark hair one lank lock falling^
over his nose. He was dressed in Tyrolese costume a dark green
coat, a bright green waistcoat, and leather breeches. His linen shirt
was crumpled, his tie was knotted anyhow, his hair was unkempt.
Ai KM, i!M... Musical Prodigies and Automatism. 57
We were all seated at dinner when he arrived with his father
and mother. Our hostess introduced them to us collectively and
gave them seats opposite to me. The parents looked quiet, colour-
less people. The mother was much the younger of the two. Heir
Korngold is a well-known musical critic, writing for the Zeit and
other German papers. Eric sat down at once and began to eat,
without looking to right or left. His manner of eating fascinated
me. He was entirely preoccupied with it. In less than a minute
his plate was empty and he held it up with a "
Bitte, noch mehr !
"
As soon as it was replenished he dashed at it again, and after
another minute all was gone. When the sweets appeared, all of a
sudden he paused, with a spoonful of meringue on its way to his
mouth. He looked across the table and far away beyond me.
Then he dropped his spoon and darted out of the room. Herr
Korngold reassured us in guttural German. "Do not be alarmed,"
he said,
" the boy is always thus. An idea has struck him, and
he has gone away to try it on the piano. Listen !
"
He held
up a hand for silence, and sure enough from the next room came
some strange and to me discordant noises, as it were from a
piano in pain. The father's face lit up.
" So ! He composes \
Gut !
"
He was right. Often and often in the middle of a meal the boy's
eyes would take on that curious
"
unseeing
"
expression which the
eyes of clairvoyants have ;
he would begin unconsciously to thump
out notes on the table with both hands, and then would rush off to
the piano and sit there for hours strumming and recording the ideas
which flowed through him, until his food was long ago stone-cold
and he had to be pulled away in a state of semi-collapse. When he
came to himself he would not know what day of the week it was,
or whether it was morning or afternoon. For the time he had
gone out of our world altogether. His father religiously gathered up
all the scraps of paper which littered the piano and the floor ;
after-
wards he would piece them together and copy them out for Eric to
play over, revise, and complete later. Once I came upon the father
on his knees on the carpet, his eyes devouring a soiled scrap of
paper upon which were scrawled some spidery notes. "Gott in?
Himmel!" he cried. "How marvellous is this child!" Musical
ideas seemed to come to young Korngold quite unconsciously or
rather subconsciously. Sometimes if he were out walking and talk-
ing he would call impatiently
"
Paper, paper !" and feverishly search
his pockets for a stump of pencil ;
if he could not find one, he-
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1913.
would turn and rush off home in a state of despair. It is clear
from watching Korngold that musical ideas flow through his mind
far quicker than he can record them. The brain always lags behind
the elusive thought. Much that he writes is too difficult for him to
play ;
indeed it would obviously be impossible for him to be capable
of playing the intricate and infinitely varied orchestral work which
he has written since he was eleven years old. How did he get this
knowledge 1 His musical education was received from an average
Viennese music-master. His father, although he has a deep theoreti-
cal and a fine critical, knowledge, plays but little and cannot compose.
Eric's grandparents are ordinary bourgeois folk. No creative musical
talent has been known in the family. For an explanation one is
almost forced to fall back upon the hypothesis of reincarnation. Is it
possible that this boy genius came into the world fully equipped as a
first-class musician, and all that he had to do before starting upon
his new career was to run rapidly over the old lessons and regain
what he had temporarily forgotten 1 This is the Platonic idea that
all knowledge is reminiscence. In Germany people are actually
asking, "Has Eric Wolfgang Korngold lived before as Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart ?
"
Apart from his musical genius Korngold is not clever in any way.
He is just a happy, easy-going, and contented lad, fond of fun and
lollipops. His idea of perfect bliss is to have to eat an unlimited
quantity of cream Eclairs and wild strawberries (which abound in the
woods of Grundelsee). He is quite aware of his own fame, and
affects to look down upon the old-fashioned composers. One after-
noon he had been playing his own sonatas for an hour or so, when
some one asked him to stop it and play Beethoven instead. "Bee-
thoven !
"
he said, superciliously ;
" that's melody, not music !
"
His
earlier works, which contain so much pure melody for instance,
that lovely little wordless operette
" Schneemann "
(Snowman) he
calls "Garments" (rubbish). Brahms and Strauss he is always
praising. Of "Electra" he said one day: "That is music; but you
wait I'll do something better than '
Electra
'
before I've done !
"
It was quite painful to watch him when his own music was being
played even when it was played really well. He would squirm on
his seat, his eyes would roll, and his face turn pale. The realisa-
tion always came short of the conception. . . .
We were put into communication with the writer of this
article through the Editor of the paper, and in reply to our
questions, he wrote as follows :
1913. Musical Prodigies and Automatism. 59
10 NORFOLK STREET,
MANCHESTER, Jan. 16, 1913.
. . . The genesis of the article requires some explanation. A friend
of mine stayed for some time with Korngold at an Austrian villa
last summer. Visiting us recently, I questioned her about K. (in
whom I have always been interested as one of the best examples
of innate genius) ;
the result of our talks was this Manchester
Guardian article. I wrote in the first person and appended my
own initials instead of my friend's (at her request), because she did
not want her name to appear.
Although
" written up
"
a little, the article is a record of fact, and
may be taken literally particularly in regard to the almost auto-
matic way in which K. composes. When the composing fit comes
on (so my friend informed me), the glide in K.'s eye becomes
accentuated, nearly approaching a squint. His musical ideas seem
to
"
rush up
"
from some subconscious area, and his chief difficulty
is in recording them fast enough and clearly enough.
Eric Korngold was born on May 29th, 1897, and he is now fifteen.
He began to show signs of musical genius when he was three years
old. In his fifth year this became so pronounced that he was called
41
the little Mozart." He first composed when he was four. From
the age of six he composed regularly and industriously. At the age
of eleven he wrote the beautiful " wordless musical play,"
" Der
Schneemann" (the Snowman), also his first piano sonata. When he
was fourteen he wrote his first orchestral work the overture to "A
Winter's Tale
"
after studying orchestration for only four months. I
have heard this work, and was simply astounded at the technical
grasp and marvellous facility of the orchestration. The full score
was written out at once, without any sketch-plan, and the conductor
Nikisch, at the first rehearsal, was particularly amazed by the cer-
tainty and vigour of the scoring. Mr. Ernest Newman, the musical
critic, has written of this :
" It is evident that the gift for scoring,
like that for harmonic combination and modulation, is inborn in
him."
What impresses one in K.'s music is its maturity ;
it is a man's
music, not a boy's ;
it has the passion, the yearning, the sadness, the
serious thought, of the man who has seen life in many phases. K.
has not attended more than ten orchestral concerts in his life ;
certainly he has not filched his musical ideas from other moderns ;
as I have said, he will not listen to other people's music. To my
mind this phenomenon can only be accounted for by (1) Myers's
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1913.
theory of genius as a subliminal uprush, or (2) the hypothesis of
reincarnation.
W. P. PRICE-HEYWOOD.
In the Journal for February, 1901 (Vol. X. p. 20) an account
is given of another prodigy, Pepito Eodriguez Arriola, born on
Dec. 14, 1896, about whom Professor Eichet read a paper at
the International Congress of Psychology in Paris in 1900.
The paper was followed by a performance on the part of the
child, then three years and eight months old.
We heard again of this child in 1911 from a Member of
the Society, Mr. J. H. Gower (Mus. Doc. Oxon.), who wrote as
follows :
23 STEELE BLOCK,
DENVER, COLORADO, May 7th, 1911.
. . . We have lately had a visit here from Pepito Arriola, the
wonderful boy pianist. I say wonderful, because he is absolutely
wonderful. Indeed I doubt if there has ever been anything quite
like him. ... A week ago I started him holding a pencil for automatic
writing, and at once, to his intense surprise and amusement, the
pencil began moving, and in less than an hour it was writing freely
and rapidly much more rapidly than he could write ordinarily,
and in a totally different handwriting. Both his mother and he were
much astonished, and quite impressed. There was not the slightest
humbug about it. It was as genuine as possible.
Next day he wrote quite a good bit, and we were all surprised
to find the signatures
"
J. S. Bach
"
and **
Beethoven
"
written several
times, together with some things I know could not come from him
consciously. ... He is now in California, but returns to Denver
soon, and expects to stay here for the summer.
He has promised to write for me a little every day or so. His
piano playing is so remarkable that a psychic explanation of some
kind seems to me to be about necessary. . . .
JOHN H. GOWER.
Dr. Gower wrote again on June 12, 1911, saying that he
had obtained some interesting automatic writing from Pepito,
which struck him by its resemblance to some writing produced
two or three years earlier by his own youngest daughter, of which
he believed that Pepito could have known nothing. He added :
"
With regard to his music, I am getting some compositions
from him, and several of his musical themes bear a remarkable
P.M.-5. Miixit'td Prodigies and Automatism. 61
resemblance to compositions of mine that have not been
published and that I know he has neither seen nor heard."
Dr. Gower wrote later to tell us of another musical prodigy,
Blanche Cobacker, a little girl of 10 or 11 years of age (in
1911) whose genius for piano-playing was, he thought, quite
as startling as Pepito's. "She has been studying with me
(he wrote) since last February, and I have been following a
method of suggestion and encouragement with her, a method
absolutely different to any orthodox or conventional one. The
result has been really wonderful. [She] plays the most
exacting and difficult compositions of the old and modern
composers with all the fire and dash of a Busoni or
Paderewski. Some of the things she does are quite uncanny."
Dr. Gower sent us a more detailed account of Blanche
Cobacker, as follows :
DENVER, COLORADO, U.S.A., January 2Qth, 1912.
The early history of the child appears to be as follows : Born in
'Chicago, Illinois, 12 years ago. Her father an invalid, since
deceased. He had no particular musical talent, though some
members of his family play. Mrs. Cobacker, the mother, also,
although very fond of music herself, has never developed her talent ;
she, however, comes of a musical family and is, in general, interested
in art.
Little Blanche had no opportunity of studying music until she
was 8 years of age. At that time she was living with her aunt in
Des Moines, Iowa, and therefore her talents were never recognized
in infancy. Her mother, however, had noticed that her little fingers
would frequently be at work as if
trying to play, on the table or
on the arm of a chair. About three years ago the family came to
Denver on account of Mr. Cobacker's health, and Blanche became
the pupil of Senor Aquabella of this city, under whose able instruc-
tion she remained for about 18 months, I believe.
It was then suggested by a friend of Mrs. Cobacker's that I was
possibly in a position to exploit the child's talents, and Blanche was
placed under my care just one year ago.
Shortly after her coming to me she became acquainted with that
wonderful boy pianist, Pepito Arriola. Pepito was a frequent visitor
to my studio during the summer months, and gave about ten piano-
forte recitals in Colorado, nearly all of which Blanche Cobacker
attended with me. This may have stimulated her into greater
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1913.
activity. However, at no time, within my knowledge of her, has
the child been urged to practise, nor has she shown any particular
diligence in her work. She is not of a very robust constitution, and
during the time she has been with me, she has lost a considerable
amount of work through sickness.
Notwithstanding this, she has fairly mastered during the last year
Beethoven's Concerto in C minor, Mendelssohn's Concerto in G minor,
Rubinstein's Concerto in E minor, several sonatas by Beethoven,
several studies, valses, polonaises, nocturnes, etc., by Chopin, studies
by Rubinstein, the same composer's Valse Caprice, two rhapsodies of
Liszt (Nos. 6 and 12), to say nothing of several works by more
modern composers, and, perhaps more astonishing than all, some of
the most difficult of Bach's compositions.
She has no difficulty in committing music to memory, but seems
to employ a method all her own in doing so. As far as technique
is concerned, I have never yet seen a passage that has given her
any trouble. Often when playing the most exacting pieces she will
turn her head around to talk to me on subjects entirely irrelevant
to what she may be then playing.
Last September when playing from notes Mendelssohn's Concerto
in G minor at a recital in Holly, Colorado, before I had any idea
that she had memorized the work, the lights of the town went out
suddenly and the hall was in total darkness, but Blanche continued
to play with the greatest brilliancy and never faltered or missed a
note. It was five or six minutes before the lights went up again,
and it was conceded that the child, by continuing to play, had
probably averted a panic.
The strength of her playing is phenomenal, and at the close of a
recital containing such works as Rubinstein's Concerto in E minor
with its four pages of octaves Rubinstein's Valse Caprice, Mendels-
sohn's Concerto in G minor, Chopin's Etude in C minor, Polonaise
in E flat, and Liszt's 6th Rhapsodic, she shows no sign of fatigue.
With regard to her powers of interpretation and the expressive-
ness of her playing, they are as wonderful as her technique.
She seems to be indifferent to the size of her audience, and played
quite unconcernedly a few weeks ago to an audience numbering
nearly 12,000 people.
She reads music at sight, even very difficult music, as well as
most professional pianists. I tested her a short time ago in trans-
posing. The piece selected was from one of Bach's suites. It is
true that I first played it for her in two or three different keys,
AI KM, i in::. Musical Prodigies and Automatism. 63
but I was astounded to find that the contrapuntal devices of Bach
presented no obstacles to her, even in transposing them from one
key to another. All musicians will concede that to transpose a
very complete knowledge of the theory of music is almost essential.
As Blanche is entirely without such knowledge, her immediate
response to my suggestion is little short of marvellous. I further
tested her in the " trick
"
of playing a simple piece in one key with
the right hand and in another key with the left hand, at sight.
Here again she came out successfully.
In every respect, except piano playing, she is an ordinary little
girl of normal habits and tastes and of a sweet, gentle and unselfish
disposition.
The method employed in her instruction is very largely that of
encouragement and suggestion. Her powers of imitation are also
called upon, as the pieces she is studying are always played over
to her at her lessons, as are also various passages in them, not only
to show her how to execute them, but also to point out the desired
expression. The old restrictions and rules relating to fingering
have been practically abandoned. She is never allowed to regard
any musical passage, however intricate, as difficult. She seldom
practises more than two hours a day.
JOHN H. GOWER, Mus. Doc. Oxon.
p.S. Blanche will have, say, such a work as Beethoven's Opus 57
given her for the first time. I especially recall her action in this
particular piece. She although a remarkable reader of music
tackles it first, as I always insist, slowly. Now, the work is full of
difficult passages, and she comes upon one of these, say, an arpeggio.
At first she acts as an ordinary clever student would act, but after
playing it a few times, slowly, her fingers will dash it off at full
speed, as if some latent memory had suddenly been awakened.
I have had considerable experience as a teacher of music, so that
my astonishment at the genius of this child is a matter to which
some slight weight may be attached. I saw something of Josef
Hofmann when he was a boy, I have seen quite a bit of Pepito
Arriola, and now have charge of Blanche Cobacker. I have of
course run across quite a number of clever children (pianists, I
mean). My son Lewes is one he is really a sort of "wonder
child" but Hofmann, Arriola, and Cobacker are to me almost
insoluble enigmas.
In regard to the hypothesis of reincarnation as a possible
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1913.
explanation of these cases, it may be pointed out that if, say,
Eric Korngold's precocity is to be explained by his being a
reincarnation of Mozart, this does not help us to explain
Mozart's precocity. Further, if precocity is to be explained
by supposing that the child is a reincarnation of some already
mature musician, we should expect the child to show maturity
not only in his musical faculty, but at the same time in all
his other mental powers, which is far from being the case with
any of these children.
OBITUARY.
THE EAEL OF CEAWFOED AND BALCAERES, K.T., F.RS.
IT is with regret that we have to record the death of the Earl
of Crawford and Balcarres, which took place at his house in
Cavelidish Square, on January 31st, 1913.
Lord Crawford became a member of the Society in 1890, and
was shortly afterwards elected a member of the Council, a
position which he continued to hold up to the time of his death.
His interest in psychical research dated, however, from a much
earlier period, when, as the Master of Lindsay, he attended some
of the sittings with the medium, D. D. Home, which are
described in Lord Adare's privately printed Experiences in
Spiritualism with D. D. Home. His evidence on this subject
was published in the Report on Spiritualism of the Committee of
the London Dialectical Society, and is one of the most important
contributions to the records of Home's phenomena.
PEOFESSOR BEEGSON'S PRESIDENTIAL ADDEESS.
PROFESSOR BERGSON will deliver his Presidential Address at a
General Meeting of the Society at the ^Eolian Hall, Bond Street,
London, W., on WEDNESDAY, MAY 28TH, 1913, at 5.30 p.m.
Since the accommodation will be limited, each Member and
Associate will, as usual, receive ONE TICKET ONLY for a friend.
No visitor will be admitted without a ticket, and a ticket
will admit one only.
All arrangements for the meeting will be announced in the
Journal for May.
X... (JCXCIX.-Vcu,. XVI. MAY, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Important Notice: Professor Bergson's Presidential Address, . 66
New Members and Associates, 66
Meeting of the Council, 67
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, 67
Cases,
- 68
Correspondence, 78
Dublin Section of the Society for Psychical Research :
Report for the year 1912, - 79
The Weston Vicarage Poltergeist, 79
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES
WILL BE HELD IN
THE AEOLIAN HALL,
NEW BOND STREET, LONDON, W.
On WEDNESDA Y, MA Y 2thy 1913, at 5.30 p.m.
(Doors open at 5.15 p.m.)
WHEN
" A Presidential Address
''
WILL BE DELIVERED (IN FRENCH) BY
PROFESSOR HENRI BERGSON.
N.B. Members and Associates will be admitted by TICKETS ONLY. Full
particulars as to admission to the Meeting are given on thefollowing
page.
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1913.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
PROFESSOR BERGSON'S PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
IT was announced in the April Journal that the Meeting on
May 28th, 1913, at which Professor Bergsori will deliver his
Presidential Address, would be a General Meeting. But after
further consideration of the limited accommodation of the
Aeolian Hall, which was chosen in deference to Professor
Bergson's wish for a moderate-sized room, the Council felt obliged
to decide that the Meeting should be a Private Meeting for Members
and Associates only, but that, should there be room after
Members and Associates who have applied for tickets are pro-
vided with places, a few invitation tickets will be allotted.
The Meeting will be held in the Aeolian Hall on May 28th,
1913, at 5.30 p.m.; the doors will be opened at 5.15 p.m.
Instead of being asked to sign their names at the door, Members
and Associates will be admitted only on the production of a ticket,
not transferable, which can be obtained from the Secretary of
the S.P.R. before May 21st. Should there be any seats available
after that date, tickets will be allotted, in order of application,
to Members and Associates for the admission of guests. In
applying, the name of the intended guest must be stated.
Applications should be addressed to THE SECRETARY, S.P.R.,
20 Hanover Square, London, W.
N.B. Members and Associates who, having received tickets,
find later that they are unable to attend the meeting, are
requested kindly to return them to the Secretary as soon as
possible.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Clements-Davies, Valentine, 59A, Grove Road, Eastbourne.
BIACH, DR. RUDOLF, Mayerhofgasse 20, Vienna IV, Austria.
CARR, H. WILDON, D.Litt., More's Garden, Cheyne Walk, London,
S.W.
HENNING, MRS., 4, Upper Bedford Place, Russell Square, London, W.C.
KAT, i!'i::. New Members and Associa 67
INGRAM, Miss M. I., The Priory, Wimbledon Common, London, S.W.
LONG, THEODORE K., 4823, Kimbark Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
MANNERS-SMITH, J. A., Coniston, Haslemere, Surrey.
MUNHO, HECTOR, M.B., 27, Lower Seymour Street, London, W.
REMACLE, GEORGES, 22, Rue de I'Athe'nee, Arlon, Belgium.
ROBBINS, RUFUS M., Titusville, Brevard County, Florida, U.S.A.
TENNEXT, MRS., 39, Rutland Park Mansions, Willesden Green,
London, N.W.
URQUIOLA, MANUEL DE, 12, Calle de Genova, Madrid, Spain.
VAN -NiEVELT, CARL, Adolfsallee 51", Wiesbaden, Germany.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 121st Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Tuesday, April 22nd, 1913, at
6 p.m. ;
MR. J. G. PIDDINGTON in the chair. There were
also present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield,
Mr. E. N. Bennett, the Rev. A. T. Fryer, Sir Lawrence J.
Jones, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey,
Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also Miss Alice
Johnson, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
One new Member and twelve new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for March, 1913, were presented
and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 44th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20
Hanover Square, London, W., on Tuesday, April 22nd, 1913,
at 4 p.m.; MR. H. ARTHUR SMITH in the chair.
DR. FREDERIK VAN EEDEN read a paper entitled
"
A Study of
Dreams," which will, it is hoped, be published later in the
Proceedings.
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1913.
CASES.
P. 287. Dreams.
THE following account of two dreams of an apparently pre-
monitory character was sent to us by a lady who has been an
Associate of the Society for several years. On account of the
family circumstances involved, we are asked not to print names,
so that pseudonyms have been substituted, but all the real
names have been given to us in confidence. The first narrative
by the lady here called Miss Matheson was written on January
1st, 1913, as follows:
Twenty-three years ago last September I dreamed a very vivid dream,
simple as all my dreams are, but of so intensely vivid a character
that it impressed me very much. The dream was simply that a
cousin of mine who was then in San Francisco, while I was in
Providence, U.S.A., had some terrible disaster hanging over her and
she was straining every nerve to get to me. This dream I had in
slight variation for three nights. So deep was the impression they
made upon me that I wrote her describing the dreams. She replied
that she knew of nothing terrible awaiting her, unless it was an
earthquake, but in six weeks the dream came literally true. She
had come on to Boston to settle her son at Harvard for his second
year and in the night after arrival a most awful affliction fell upon
her and she left the hotel as soon as it was opened in the morning
and walked the streets without breakfast until she could get a train
to me. So great was the influence of this affliction that it entirely
changed my life and has not yet relaxed its grip.
Remembering this dream and its enormous consequences, I wrote
down at once on awakening a dream I had in the Hans Crescent
Hotel in London on the night between the 12th and 13th of April,
1912. I also told my maid of it when she came to me in the morning.
This is the dream. I thought I waked at midnight, just as the
clock was striking 12, I found myself in a strange place, a
small cottage room, such as I had never slept in in my life. I
suddenly felt that something was calling me downstairs. It was
bright moonlight, which flooded the room, making artificial light
unnecessary. I rose and went out into the passage, finding a short
flight of extremely steep stairs leading down. They were almost
perpendicular and very narrow, altogether unlike anything I ever
saw before, and scarcely as safe as a ladder. I went down these
stairs and along a short passage into a very pleasant little cottage
M.\\. mi:*. CWs. 69
parlour with a large window at one end. Still it was bright moon-
light and I saw everything perfectly and knew I should know the
room again if I ever saw it. As I entered I heard a voice wailing
"Twenty-four, East Street, Twenty-four, East Street." The voice
was so insistent, so sad, so weird, that it frightened me. I went
to the window, but could see nothing but the moonlight washing
everything. I noticed there was a wide space in front of the little
fence, which was close to the window, and beyond great trees. The
voice continued wailing out the words "Twenty-four East Street"
until I could bear it no longer, but turned and fled. I can give
you no idea of the piercing nature of the voice, nor the sorrow and
distress in it, but yet on the whole the impression left upon my
mind when I waked was one of happiness and well-being. I did
not dream the dream again, as I had before in the one I have related,
so I gradually dismissed it from my mind. My maid said when I told
her of the dream the next morning
"
Can it be anything to do with
Mr. W,?" naming a friend of mine in New York. I said, no, I did
not think so. I thought the idea came to her from the fact that
she knew the streets in New York were always East or West with
a number added. However, as I said, I had dismissed the entire
matter from my mind and concluded there was no meaning to the
dream.
Shortly after this I suddenly made up my mind to take a house
in the New Forest for the month of June. I took my maid and we
motored all through the Forest in search of such a house as I
wished.
The only one I could find that had the seclusion I desired was a
cottage belonging to a man who had been a butler in a good family
and who owned his house, which had been added to and had grown
somewhat beyond its first primitive condition. This house was kept by
his two daughters and though it was not just what I wished, I took it
for a month from the 29th of May. I was tired with my quest and
did not notice the house much, simply taking it because I could
find nothing else, so I did not associate it with my dream at all
until I went to take possession on the 29th of May. Then I re-
membered the staircase and the drawing room and I found that
what I had taken for a hall was really a small room, which, in the
more unambitious days, had been the tiny parlour of the Cottage.
Mr. W., my friend in N.Y., died on the 29th of May, the day I
went to this cottage and I heard of it two days later in the cottage.
Mr. W.'s house in New York was 24 East 51st Street, around the
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1913.
corner from and connected with the house of Mr. Whitelaw Reid,
though he, Mr. W., was not living in it at the time of his death.
Mr. W. had not been well for several years, but I had no idea he
was in any danger, but I had known for nearly fifteen years
that he looked to me for a certain thing in case of his death. He
never said this in words, but I and others knew it was in his
mind. . . .
In due time after my letters of condolence to the family, I wrote
his son and I quote from his reply which is before me :
" You ask if anything peculiar happened on the night between
the 12th and 13th of April. Nothing peculiar in its literal sense,
but that was the night father had a collapse, the one just previous
to the fatal one ;
outside this I know of nothing." When I recall
the intense agony of the voice calling apparently to me, I ask
myself if this soul about to wing its way to Eternity, remembering
what it wished to ask of me, tried to reach me that night and
saw me where I was to be when I heard of its passing. . . .
The vividness of the dream, the intense penetrating call of the
voice I can communicate to no one, and these are the only things
that make the story worth telling. Cottage near
with its steep staircase is
easily found. My cousin who had the
terrible experience is still living ; my maid and my notebook
can vouch for the truth of the dream, while the funeral card of
Mr. W. and the people at Cottage can do the same for the
dates. . . .
[Signed] N. MATHESON.
In reply to our request for corroborative evidence and for
leave to see the original papers referred to, Miss Matheson
wrote again :
January 6th, 1913.
I have put together, as you suggest, "the documents in the case"
and they are at your disposal. They consist of my notebook, the
letter from H. W. from which I quoted, a letter from his father
to me a month or two before his death, in which he says how he
longs to see me and tell me "all he hopes and fears," my maid's
statement, which she thought at first impossible to make without
my assistance, but when I told her it would lose all value if I
said one word, she went away and returned in an hour with a
fairly good outline of the facts. There is also another letter written
to me since Mr. W.'s death by a member of the family, which
shows, unintentionally, the reason Mr. W. clung to me as he did.
MAY, 1913. Co88. 71
I have also written to my cousin as you request. She is living
at - - and I asked her to tell me in as few words as possible
if she remembered my first dreams and if so, how much of them.
We neither of us kept the letters, for we thought nothing of it at the
time, and the blow which fell made any such thing impossible. . . .
I think I might tell you that the terrible trouble I felt over-
hanging my cousin, and which fell the night I wrote you of, was
the sudden insanity of her only daughter, 28 years old. She was
so paralysed with fear that she had but one thought, to get away
from people and to me. Fortunately the first condition of the
insanity was a frozen state in which her daughter would not speak.
But soon after she got to me, it became that of raving insanity,
and while to-day she is perfectly quiet and good, she has never
recovered her mind. It led to so many changes, such a complete
overturning of every condition that existed at the time she was
taken, that it has never been a matter of surprise to me that I felt
it
coming.
Miss Matheson also told us that she was shortly coming
to London and could see us and show us her papers. Miss
Johnson therefore went to call on her, and writes the follow-
ing account of her interview :
January 23, 1913.
I went to see Miss Matheson at the Hans Crescent Hotel on
Jan. 15, 1913, and had a long talk with her about her experiences.
In regard to the premonitory dreams, dreamt on three successive
nights, about her cousin, she said that there was absolutely no
reason for expecting a misfortune of any kind. The illness (mental)
of the cousin's daughter came on about six weeks later quite sud-
denly and with absolutely no warning. It made a great difference
in Miss Matheson's own life, as she had been appealed to for
help and had taken complete charge of the invalid, who had
remained under her guardianship ever since, and was with her then.
The cousin had lived with Miss Matheson's parents, and so
was in the position of a sort of elder sister to her. She is now an
old lady, and though Miss Matheson was sure that she remembered
all about the facts, she did not expect that she would be prepared
to write a detailed statement of them. She has, however, written a
brief note of general confirmation.
As the illness caused great anxiety and distress to all the family,
and also brought about a complete change in Miss Matheson's life,
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1913.
(she gave up her house to go abroad with the invalid), it was
natural that the letters which passed between her and her cousin
at the time had not been kept.
In regard to the second dream about the cottage and the wailing
voice, Miss Matheson gave me the original account of it, which she
had written immediately after waking, before seeing her maid. She
had not connected it in any way with Mr. W. When the maid
came into her room in the morning, she told her of the dream, and
it was the maid who first suggested that it might have to do with
Mr. W., since the address of his house was 24 East 51st Street
in New York. They concluded, however, that it could not refer to-
him, because the little old-fashioned and inconvenient cottage was
utterly unlike any place that he could have lived in or been
associated with.
Some two or three weeks after the dream Miss Matheson began
to make plans for the summer and determined to try and find a
house in the New Forest for the special benefit of her ward, for
whom she thought country of that kind would be suitable. She
started with her maid on May 16th, 1912, motoring through the
forest, and the only house she could find that seemed at all possible
was Cottage. She did not much like the house, as it had not
the accommodation and conveniences that she had been accustomed to.
In particular the stairs were so narrow and steep that she did not
go up them, but sent her maid to look at the upstairs rooms; and
all the time they were staying there afterwards, she avoided going
up and downstairs as much as possible. But she told me she was
quite certain that she was not in any way influenced by her dream
in taking the house, since she had entirely forgotten it, and neither
she nor her maid noticed till afterwards its likeness to the dream
house. She laid special stress on its great unlikeness to any house
she had ever taken before ;
she had never before stayed in any
that could be described as a cottage. She took it on May 16th
from May 29th for four weeks, arranging to enter on May 29th,
which they actually did.
I saw Miss Matheson's maid, Mabel ,
who has written a
statement confirming the dream. She repeated to me her recollec-
tions of the whole matter, and answered various questions. I was
very favourably impressed by her as a witness, as all her statements
seemed to be made with care and thought. She said that the
staircase of the cottage was very markedly narrow, steep, and in-
convenient, it went straight up from the little hall, opposite to the
MAY, 1913. 0!fl 73
front door. She kept a diary and brought it to refer to when I
asked for the exact dates of their excursion to the New Forest,
etc. The dates given above were dictated to me from this diary,
and noted by me at the time.
Miss Matheson gave me various letters, etc., relating to Mr. W.'s
death. He had been a chronic invalid for some years, but she was
not in any special anxiety about him at the time of her dream.
She heard from him fairly often; he was an intimate friend.
ALICE JOHNSON.
p.S. I read the above to Miss Matheson on Feb. 4, 1913, and
she declared it to be correct.
Miss Johnson went to see Miss Matheson again on February
4th, 1913, when she dictated to her and afterwards signed the
following more detailed account of the dream about her cousin :
The first night I dreamed that I had been out of the house and
coming in I found three members of my cousin's family sitting or
lying in different rooms in a complete state of exhaustion. They
were 3000 miles away in San Francisco, so I was surprised to see
them and on showing it they said "Something terrible is hanging
over us and we have hurried to get to you." I saw my cousin,
her husband and son; her daughter was not there. I also saw a
great mass of opals thrown together.
The next night I dreamed that I had a letter from them saying
that something terrible was going to happen to them and they
were hurrying to get to me and would be there almost as soon as
the letter. The third night I dreamed that something terrible was
going to happen to them and I must get to them myself, and in
my dream I went to San Francisco, only to be told that nothing
was the matter. But I did not see the daughter in any of the
dreams.
On the same occasion, Miss Matheson dictated to Miss Johnson
the following extract from a letter from her cousin, dated Jan.
11, 1913:
I do remember your writing that letter speaking of your terrible
dream of disaster awaiting us. I could not think of anything but
an earthquake.
Miss Matheson also obtained for us a statement written
by her cousin, which is now in our possession, as follows :
Jan. 16, 1913.
Yes, I remember the dream you wrote me about, that a terrible
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1913.
disaster was threatening me, and my trying to get to you, and
how it was fulfilled by the events that followed.
[Signed] J. F. BAUMGARTEN.
In regard to the dream of the voice heard in the cottage
in April, 1912, Miss Matheson gave Miss Johnson her original
account, written immediately after waking, which is as follows :
HANS CRESCENT HOTEL, April 13th, 1912.
In the Hans Crescent Hotel, London, on the night between April
12th and 13th, 1912, I had a very vivid dream.
As I have never had but one dream before in my life of this
extremely vivid character and as that came literally true in 6
weeks' time, I am placing this on record.
THE DREAM.
I dreamt I woke up just at midnight, the clock was striking 12.
I found myself not in my own room, but in the room of a small
cottage, such as I had never been in in my life. In a few minutes
the feeling came to me that I must go downstairs. It seemed as
if something was imperatively calling me. I got up, it was bright
moonlight, like day, so that I did not require a light, and went
down an exceedingly narrow and steep flight of stairs and through
a short hall into a pleasant little cottage parlour with windows at
one end. I presently became conscious of a voice calling,
" 24 East
Street, 24 East Street." It seemed to come from just outside the
window and was so piercing, so agonising, that it frightened me.
I looked out, but there was nothing but the bright moonlight. The
wailing voice went on,
" 24 East Street, 24 East Street," until in
.a kind of panic I fled up the steep stair again to my bed.
Though my feeling of panic was real enough for the moment,
there was underlying it a sense of well-being, of happiness and
content, which the wailing voice did not seem to really disturb.
The dream like my previous one was nothing in itself. It was
only its extremely lifelike character that left the impression upon me.
Miss Matheson added later:
My previous dream in September 1889 was dreamt 3 nights in
succession. This dream of April 12-13 but one night.
[Signed] N. MATHESON.
The following statement was written by Miss Matheson's maid :
January 4fA, 1913.
On going to Miss Matheson's rooms as usual on the morning of
the 13th of April, 1912, at the Hans Crescent Hotel, she said to
MAY, 1913. 0(1868. 75
me, "I have had a most vivid dream of being in a small cottage
with such a steep staircase, the like of which I have never seen in
my life before. After descending the stairs and entering the parlour
I heard an unknown voice outside the window calling out to me
24 East Street, 24 East Street."
Knowing considerable of Mr. W. and his illness I at once said,
"Can it in any way be connected with Mr. W. ?" to which Miss
Matheson replied, "Why no, Mr. W. was never in such a cottage
in his life."
I thought it possible that Mr. W. had passed away and that
Miss Matheson would soon hear of his death.
Later in the day, when again speaking of the dream, Miss
Matheson said, "I so rarely dream that, when I do, I feel my
dream must have some meaning."
Time passed and on May 29th we went to a small cottage in
the New Forest that Miss Matheson had taken for a month and
there on entering the hall, facing us was a steep staircase such as
Miss Matheson might have seen in her dream.
Two days later at the cottage Miss Matheson learned that Mr.
W. had died on May 29th, the very day we went there.
[Signed] MABEL
Miss Matheson also gave Miss Johnson two picture post-
cards of the cottage in the New Forest to which she went on
May 29th, 1912, to show the kind of house it was and
its surroundings, as described in her first account ;
two letters
from Mr. W. to herself; a printed notice of his death on May
29th, 1912, and the letter from his son dated Aug. 8, 1912,
from which she quoted in her first account. He writes as
follows :
. . . You ask if "anything peculiar happened the night of Apr. 12."
Nothing "peculiar" in its literal sense, but that was the night that
Father had a collapse, the one just prior to the fatal one. I recall
that I was away motoring at the time and learned of it by long
distance 'phone. Outside of that I know of nothing of note
happening. . . .
The fact of the son being away from home at the time
showed, as Miss Matheson pointed out, that, though Mr. W.
was a chronic invalid, the family were in no special anxiety
about him at that date.
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1913.
L. 1196. Dream.
THE following case, apparently one of telepathy, has been sent
to us through an Associate of the Society. The names and
addresses of those concerned have been given to us, but are by
request withheld from publication.
The agent and percipient in this case were A. and his-
wife B., as they are called here. The first report of the
experience was sent to us by A.'s mother, Mrs. Eooke
(pseudonym), as follows :
February 3rd, 1913.
A few days ago I received the following account, from [my
son and daughter-in-law, A. and B.], of what appears to be a curious
case of telepathy.
"The other day, the 19th of January, A. was reading Tristram of
Blent, a book which neither A. nor B. remember to have seen
before. B. was busy about the house in the afternoon, when A.
was reading this book, and he said nothing to her about what he
was reading. When he came to the following passage he read it
over several times and made a strong mental note of it :
'
If we
divide humanity into those who do things and those who have to get
out of the way while they are being done, Gainsborough belonged to
the latter class.' He said nothing about this. Some hours later
after dinner, both were reading, and B. was interested in her book,
when suddenly she had an extraordinary desire to go to sleep im-
mediately. It was the utmost she could do to tell A. this, for her,
very unusual thing, when she curled up on the sofa and dropped
asleep, knowing nothing more till about two hours later when she
awoke. In the meantime A. went on reading. After B. had been
asleep for a considerable time, she began to speak with the subdued
eagerness usual in sleepers' speech: 'They are trying they are
trying to . . .' A. leaned forward (he was sitting about ten feet
away) and said in an ordinary tone :
'
Yes, what are they trying to
do 1
'
B. answered without hesitation :
'
The people that have to be
got out of the way of? Then she muttered a few syllables, and was
silent, sleeping on, in deep slumber, for perhaps an hour till she
woke. She changed her position several times, her movements
being those of a very tired and determined sleeper, and she gave
no sign of being anywhere near waking all the time.
B. had certainly not looked at the book since it came to the
house, and it is very unlikely that either she or A. had ever seen
3i .-u, r.n:;. Cases. 77
it before. B. did not even know the title of the book A. was
reading."
This is a verbatim copy of the statement as sent to me, as
requested, after having heard the story in conversation.
[Signed] G. ROOKK.
We wrote then asking whether A. and B. would also send
an account of their experience. A. writes :
Febnary 10, 1913.
On the afternoon of Sunday, January 19th, 1913, I was reading
Tristram of Blent. My wife was in and out of the room a good
<leal, but I did not call her attention to any passage in the book.
I was specially struck by the following passage, and read it over
more than once, pausing for a time in my reading, but saying
nothing: "If we divide humanity into those who do things and
those who have to get out of the way when they are being done,
Gainsborough belonged to the latter class." I remember that my
wife came into the room while my attention was fixed on this
passage.
Some hours later, in the evening, we were both reading, when
my wife said, suddenly, that she felt very sleepy, speaking in a
drowsy tone, and almost immediately she dropped off into a deep sleep.
She did not wake up for about two hours. After she had been
asleep for some time, she began to speak with the subdued eager-
ness ordinary in such cases, saying, "they are trying . . .
they
are trying," but apparently being unable to say more. I leaned
forward (I was sitting about 10 feet away) and said, in an ordinary
tone, "Yes? What are they trying to do?" She answered at once,
in the tone of a person answering such a question :
" The people that
have to be got out of the way of." She then muttered a few syllables,
and was silent until she awoke, I think not less than an hour
After. While she was speaking, and just before and after, she was
lying perfectly still with her eyes closed and was certainly asleep.
[Signed] A. ROOKE.
B. writes :
February 10, 1913.
On Sunday, Jan. 19th, 1913, my husband and I were reading.
I was quite interested in my book ; suddenly I felt a strong desire
for sleep. I had some difficulty to keep awake long enough to
-explain to my husband that I was obliged to go to sleep imme-
diately an unusual thing for me to do.
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1913.
I curled up on a sofa and knew nothing more until about
two hours later.
When I awoke my husband asked if I had read the book he
was reading. (He felt sure I could not have done so, as it had
only just been sent to the house.) I had not read, or even heard
of it.
He then told me that he had been struck by a certain passage
in his book and that in my sleep I repeated a part of it, using
almost the same words.
[Signed] B. ROOKE.
In reply to a further question, Mrs. Rooke writes :
February Uth, 1913.
In regard to the question you ask, as to whether my son ever
unconsciously reads or repeats aloud sentences that he is particularly
interested in, I can answer without any hesitation that I have never
known him to do so, and I feel quite sure that he never does. My
daughters say the same, and that they could not imagine him doing
so ;
it would be so unlike himself.
As you ask for a statement from me or my son's wife, to this effect,
I trust this will be enough without writing to her to confirm it.
[Signed] GA ROOKE.
CORRESPONDENCE.
WITH reference to
"
Miss Jones's
"
dream, the account of which
was printed in the Journal for April, 1913, pp. 51-56, Mr.
Constable writes :
One fact in this case seems to me peculiarly interesting. If we
assume that, in the dream, the midnight motor-party and the
coloured illustrations were both "presented" to Miss Anne Jones,
we have a presentation of the present in time and a presentation of
the future in time, given to Miss Jones in one and the same dream.
But in the dream we have the two presentations related to one
another by the presence of Mr. M. "in very dusty tweeds" at the
midnight motor-party. This fact is evidently "embroidery"; it results
from intellectual operation on the part of Miss Jones in, when
dreaming, using her imagination to link up in time and event two-
events unrelated to each other in fact or time.
The case appears to me a, very clear one of Miss Jones's having
1913. Correspondence. 79
IKK! the two "presentations" in telepathy (as I define it in 7
sonality and Telepathy). When the two impressions emerged in
ideas in her intellect, her imagination came into play, in trying to
reconcile her experience with her normal experience.
F. C. CONSTABLE.
DUBLIN LOCAL SECTION OF THE SOCIETY FOR
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
REPORT FOR THK YEAR 1912.
THE work of the Dublin Section has been carried on during
the year 1912 with a considerable amount of success. We have
held sixteen meetings of the Section, with an increased average
attendance over the previous year. The Hon. Treasurer reports
a small balance of between 5 and 6 in hand, after defraying
the various expenses of hire of room for meetings, printing,
stationery, and travelling expenses. The hon. officers who acted
last year agreed to serve again for the year 1913, except the
hon. treasurer, Dr. Doherty, who, owing to continued ill health,
is unable to perform the duties, and has sent in his resignation
of the post. He has now accepted the office of vice-chairman
of the Dublin Section vice Mr. Thomas Henry Webb, who has
resigned.
During the past year several of our members have been
engaged in private circles in various aspects of psychical inves-
tigation. One group sitting regularly have obtained remarkable
results in the use of the so-called Ouija Board, and the pre-
liminary report by Sir William Barrett and the Rev. Savell
Hicks of the results so far obtained was read at the
meeting of the parent Society on December 9th, and at our
local Section on December 19th, 1912. The experiments are still
being continued, and we hope that they will encourage other
members to devote some of their time to investigation.
THE WESTON VICARAGE POLTERGEIST.
ENQUIRIES have reached us about the alleged manifestations
at Weston Vicarage, near Otley, which were reported in the
Yorkshire Observer in the beginning of April. Accounts by
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1913.
the Kev. Charles Tweedale, Vicar of Weston, appeared in the
Yorkshire Observer for April 2nd and 7th, 1913, and in the
latter of these accounts Mr. Tweedale wrote :
In conclusion, I may say that the Society for Psychical Eesearch
have made a most exhaustive investigation of the psychic phenomena
with which we have been favoured, and have interviewed and cross-
examined a score of witnesses who have resided in the house. The
result has heen to more than justify every word we have said. . . .
The Society for Psychical Research are still investigating and obser-
ving the phenomena, and every opportunity will be given to their
officers to do so in the future. . .
The Editor of the Yorkshire Observer applied to us for
information on the subject, and Miss Newton replied as follows :
Sir, April 8th, 1913.
In reply to your enquiry received this morning, it is true that
one of our investigators has been three times to Weston Vicarage
to enquire into the phenomena reported as having occurred there.
He has collected a great deal of evidence on the subject from present
and former members of the household, but has not yet come to a
definite conclusion regarding it.
The Society for Psychical Research are hoping to avail themselves
of the opportunity offered to their officials by Mr. Tweedale, in his
letter printed in your issue of April 7th, for continuing the investi-
gation.
Yours, etc.,
ISABEL NEWTON
(Secretary, S.P.K.).
This letter was, however, printed in a mutilated form in the
Yorkshire Observer of April llth, 1913, immediately following
one from Mr. Tweedale, so that it may have given readers the
misleading impression of having been written spontaneously to
endorse Mr. Tweedale's statement, which was not the case.
We may add that the phenomena as to which our investigator
has collected evidence from Mr. Tweedale and members of his
household were far less remarkable than would be gathered
from the descriptions recently appearing in the newspapers.
No. CCC. VOL. XVI. JONK, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAG I
Now Members and Associates, - -
82
Meeting of the Council, -
82
Private Meeting, -
Hie Case of Charles P. Hrewin, ^7
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDA Y, JUL Y yd, 1913, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER WILL BB READ ON
The '
Thinking
'
Horses of Elberfeld,"
BY MR. E. BULLOUGH
AND
DR. V. J. WOOLLEY.
F.B. tVo Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1913.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Brown, Haydn, L.R.C.P., The Bishams, Caterham Valley, Surrey.
ADAIR, DESMOND, Sandhurst, Farnham, Surrey.
BEAUMONT-KLEIN, LEOPOLD DE, D.Sc., 6 Gloucester Terrace, Regent's
Park, London, N.W.
BEAUMONT-KLEIN, THE HON. MRS. DE, 6 Gloucester Terrace, Regent's
Park, London, N.W.
CHICHKINE, MLLE. A. DE, Lyceum Club, 128 Piccadilly, London, W.
COSTELLOE, Miss KARIN, 3F Morpeth Terrace, Victoria Street,
London, S.W.
DUNNE, DANIEL P., Yetholme, Liverpool Road, Birkdale.
ELCHO, LADY, 62 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
WISE, Miss A. S., 16 West Kensington Gardens, London, W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 122nd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Wednesday, May 28th, 1913, at
4 p.m. ;
SIE WILLIAM CROOKES in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Right Hon. Gerald W.
Balfour, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, the Rev. A. T. Fryer, Sir
Lawrence J. Jones, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox
Pitt, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur
Smith, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and Dr. V.
J. Woolley ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Research Officer, and
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
One new Member and eight new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for April, 1913, were presented
and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 45th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates was held in the Aeolian Hall, New Bond Street,
.FI M . I'.M::. I'r'tntfr Mn't', ,,<i f,,i< Members and Associates. 83
London, W., on Wednesday, May 28th, 1913, at 5.30 p.m. ;
the President, PROFESSOR HENRI BERGSON, in the chair.
THE PRESIDENT delivered an Address, which will shortly be
published in the Proceedings. The following abstract is reprinted
from Tin 1
Times by special permission :
PROFESSOR BERGSON, who spoke in French, began by thanking the
Society for the honour it had done him in making him its President.
He had done nothing to deserve this honour. He himself had not
seen anything of psychical research, nor had he made experiments
or observations. Since the foundation of the Society, however, he
had followed its publications with the greatest attention. He admired
the indefatigable perseverance and the extreme ingenuity which it had
brought to its investigations. He admired also the courage with
which it had braved the prejudices of a part of the learned world.
Whence came these prejudices, which, by the way, were in process
of diminishing and of disappearing ?
They were due to several reasons,
some superficial, others profound.
In the first place the method which the Society was often obliged
to employ disconcerted many minds. But the facts which the Society
studied were natural facts. Thus to take the example of
"
true
"
or
<;
telepathic
"
hallucinations that was to say, of the alleged
apparition of a dying person, for instance, to a relation or a friend
it was quite evident to M. Bergson that, if that fact was real, it
was subject to laws, as were all the facts of nature, and that, conse-
quently, this fact itself, or at least a part of it, ought to be able to
be reproduced by us at will experimentally, if we knew its condi-
tions. Indeed, in his opinion, if telepathy was a reality, it was pro-
bable, or at least possible, that it was taking place constantly with
every one, but too feebly to be noticed, or neutralized by certain
obstacles. There, then, was a fact which, if it was real, ought, it
would seem, to lend itself to the methods of study which were em-
ployed in the natural sciences. But not at all. The Society for
Psychical Research was obliged to study it by a method which on
certain sides resembled that of the historian and on others that of the
detective or of the judge, collating evidence, comparing it, criticizing
it. There, in the opinion of certain men of science, was an anomaly
which embarrassed them and which resulted in their preferring tr
have nothing to do with that class of phenomena.
I
But this was not the principal reason. The true reason was to
found in a certain bent which all our minds had contracted during
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1913.
the last three or four centuries, under the influence of the metaphysic
and the science which had developed since the Renaissance. Experi-
mental method, as for three centuries it had been understood, was
essentially turned towards measure. Even when the object studied
was not directly measurable, even when we must limit ourselves to
giving a description of it, we so arranged as to retain of that object
only the aspect by which, later on, it might become measurable.
Now, the phenomena of thought, of feeling, or, more generally, of the
mind, were not measurable. Science tended, then, naturally, to
substitute cerebral facts for these phenomena themselves, and to
consider the mental as the exact equivalent of the cerebral. Thence
the theory of the exact parallelism of the cerebral with the mental,
a theory which had become so natural to us that we spoke almost
indifferently of the mind or of the brain. Now, it was because the
facts with which psychical research was concerned seemed to square
badly with this theory, not to be able to be explained by it although
this had been by no means proved that one was led a priori to con-
sider them as illusory.
M. Bergson proceeded to point out that in his view the theory of
the rigorous parallelism of the cerebral with the mental was a pure
metaphysical hypothesis which was neither proved nor even sug-
gested by the facts. He recalled, in reference to this subject, the
study which he formerly made of the diseases of memory. The only
function of thought, he said, which it has been possible so far to
attach to such or such a part of the cerebral cortex was the memory
more precisely the memory of words. The study of the various
aphasias had led, indeed, to localizing in such or such cerebral cir-
cumvolutions the visual memory of words, the auditive memory of
words, the motive memory of words, and so on. Now, he had shown
already by psychological analyses, and this had been confirmed
recently by considerations of an anatomical nature as could be
seen in the works of Dr. Pierre Marie that the classic theory of the
aphasias was untenable. He had shown that the brain must be an
organ of the recalling of things remembered, far more than an organ
of preservation. The role of the brain was to bring back the remem-
brance of an action, to prolong the remembrance in movements.
Now, in a general way, it could be said that that was the role of
the brain. If one could see all that takes place in the interior of
the brain, one would find that that which takes place there cor-
responds to a small part only of the life of the mind. The brain
simply extracts from the life of the mind that which is capable of
:
.i
INK, 1913. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 85
representation in movement. The cerebral life is to the mental life
what the movements of the baton of a conductor are to the
symphony.
The brain, then, is that which allows the mind to adjust itself exactly
to circumstances. It is the organ of attention to life. Should it
become deranged, however slightly, the mind is no longer fitted to
the circumstances ;
it wanders, dreams. Many forms of mental
alienation are nothing else. But from this it results that one of the
roles of the brain is to limit the vision of the mind, to render its action
more efficacious. This is what we observe in regard to the memory,
where the rule of the brain is to mask the useless part of our past in
order to allow only the useful remembrances to appear. Certain
useless recollections, or dream remembrances, manage nevertheless
to appear also, and to form a vague fringe around the distinct recol-
lections. It would not be at all surprising if perceptions of the organs
of our senses, useful perceptions, were the result of a selection or of
a canalization worked by the organs of our senses in the interest of
our action, but that there should yet be around those perceptions
a fringe of vague perceptions, capable of becoming more distinct in
extraordinary, abnormal cases. Those would be precisely the cases
with which psychical research would deal.
On the other hand, it is space which creates multiplicity and dis-
tinction. It is by their bodies that the different human personalities
are radically distinct. But if it is demonstrated that human con-
sciousness is partially independent of the human brain, since the
cerebral life represents only a small part of the mental life, it is very
possible that the separation between the various human conscious-
nesses may not be so radical as it seems to be. There must certainly
exist, in the normal state, mechanisms which neutralize this endos-
mose between consciousnesses, if this endosmose is a real thing, for
it could not be other than very embarrassing. But it is conceivable
that at certain moments these mechanisms work badly ; an^Kere;
gain, facts for the criticism of psychical research would be
The field open to psychical research was. then, very wide :
one could say what were its limits.
Professor Bergson asked, in conclusion, what would have
if all our science, for three centuries past, had been directed towards
the knowledge of the mind, instead of towards that of matter if,
for instance, Kepler and Galileo and Newton had been psychologists ?
Psychology, he said, would have attained developments of which
one could no more form an idea than people had been able, before
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1913.
Kepler and Galileo and Newton, to form an idea of our astronomy
and of our physics. Probably, instead of their being disdained A
priori, all the strange facts with which psychical research was con-
cerned would have been sought out minutely. Probably we should
have had a vitalist biology quite different from ours, perhaps also
a different medicine, or therapeutics by way of suggestion would
have been pushed to a point of which we could form no idea. But
when the human mind, having pushed thus far the science of mind,
had turned towards inert matter, it \vould have been confused as
to its direction, not knowing how to set to work, not knowing how
to apply to this matter the processes with which it had been success-
ful up till then. The world of physical, and not that of psychical,
phenomena would then have been the world of mystery. It was,
however, neither possible nor desirable that things should have hap-
pened thus. It was not possible, because at the dawn of modern
times mathematical science already existed, and it was necessary,
consequently, that the mind should pursue its researches in a direc-
tion to which that science was applicable. Nor was it desirable,
even for the science of mind, for there would always have been wanting
to that science something infinitely precious the precision, the
anxiety for proof, the habit of distinguishing that which is certain
and that which is simply possible or probable. The sciences con-
cerned with matter could alone give to the mind that precision, that
rigour, those scruples. Let us now approach the science of mind
with these excellent habits, renouncing the bad metaphysic which
embarrasses our research, and the science of the mind will attain
results surpassing all our hopes.
At the conclusion of M. Bergson's address,
MR. A. J. BALFOUR rose and said : It is not usual to follow our
President's address with either commentary or discussion, but as an
old president of this Society I think I am probably translating your
secret thoughts when I take the opportunity in your name, without
asking your leave, to thank M. Bergson for one of the most interesting
the most interesting and illuminating address which this Society
has ever received. Most of us know M. Bergson by reputation who,
indeed, does not ? but few of us have had an opportunity of hearing
him. Those of us who have had that opportunity to-night will leave
this hall congratulating themselves on the good fortune which has
brought them to this meeting, on an occasion which must be so pro-
foundly interesting to the whole future of our Society.
JUNE, 1D13. The Case of ChcurUs P. Breivin. 87
THE CASE OF CHARLES 1'. 1JKKWIN.
THE April number of the Jxunu'l of the American Society for
r*yrhinil Ii'f.^-.trch contains an interesting report of a case of
secondary personality, somewhat similar to the case of Ansel
Bourne (see Proc. S.P.K., Vol. VII, p. 221). The subject in
this case was Mr. Charles P. Brewin, a merchant tailor of
Burlington, N.J. Mr. Brewin disappeared from home on Nov. 9,
1903, and nothing was heard of him for nearly four years.
On June 24 or 25, 1907, a trolley-car conductor, who had
lived as a boy in Burlington, saw Mr. Brewin in Plainh'eld, N.J.,
and spoke to him by name. Mr. Brewin, however, asserted
that his name was Johnson, and when a day or two later his
son and brother came to see him, he did not recognise them.
Several newspaper reporters also visited him, and he appeared
to be much worried and perplexed over the question of his
identity. On Sunday, June 30, 1907, Mrs. Dunn, in whose
house he was living under the name of Frank G. Johnson, went
out, and he was left for some hours alone. His restoration to
his normal self is described by Mrs. Dunn as follows :
. . . When I came home I rang the bell and saw him through the
curtain, staggering to the door. He opened the door and stood still
looking at me, and said :
"
Who are you 1
"
I said,
"
Don't you
know me, Mr. Johnson 1
"
He replied,
" I never saw you before."
I came in and he remarked :
" Are you Mrs. Dunn, of Norwood
Avenue, Plainfield, New Jersey?" "Yes," I said. "Do you live
here?" he further asked. "Yes," I replied. He then said: "I saw
a tax bill on the table with that name on it and I found myself
here in a strange place. I do not know how I came here, but I
have been asleep and was suddenly awakened by the explosion of a
pistol, or gun, or cannon, close to my head. It startled me so that
I awoke out of this sound sleep. I jumped out of the chair and
had to support myself by the table and chair. I had to sit down
again until this dizzy feeling, and finding everything strange about
me, went over. I could not find my hat or coat. I went out
and walked about to see if I could find any one I knew, but came
back with everything strange about me. If I could have found my
hat and coat I would have gone away. I was afraid to go and
look for them, thinking that people who lived here might return
and imagine I was a burglar."
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1913.
"
Well, who are you ?
"
I asked, noticing that there was something
strange in his condition and behaviour. He replied :
"
My name is
Charles P. Brewin, merchant tailor of Burlington, N.J., and I can't
understand how I came here to Plainfield. Do you know how I
came here 1 Do you know anything about it ? Find my coat and
hat. I want to get off on the next train." I then said,
" You have
been sick and have been with me for some little time." He replied,
"Oh, no. I left Burlington yesterday." He complained of his head
being dizzy and that he could not collect his ideas, and urged me
to get his hat and coat, saying,
"
My wife will be terribly worried !
"
This was the first time he had ever mentioned he had a family.
He went on : "I am not in the habit of staying away from home
at night." "Well," I said, "you are in a strange place. I shall
go and find when the train goes and tell you. You wait and do
not try to get to Burlington until I get back." He replied that he
would stay, and that he had been afraid to go prowling about the
house for fear he would be taken for a burglar.
The case is also described by Dr. Buchanan, the doctor who
knew Mr. Brewin as Frank Johnson, and was called in to see
him immediately after his return to normal consciousness. Dr.
Buchanan writes as follows :
September, 1907.
... To prepare my account, I would say that I have some
recollection of the excitement caused at the time of the disappearance
of Chas. P. Brewin from his Burlington home, the finding of certain
effects a hat and note, I think in a New York ferry boat, and the
fruitless attempts to locate him. My actual acquaintance with
Frank G. Johnson was formed on a professional visit to the lady
with whom he boarded, Dec. 7, 1905. He was introduced to me as
Mr. Johnson, seemed to be a perfect gentleman, quiet, unobtrusive,
and anxious to do what lay in his power to assist in the time of
need. I met him subsequently to this several times, sat in the
same pew with him in church and shared the same hymn book,
met him at his presser's bench, where he was emplo}
r
ed, at various
entertainments, on trolleys, etc., and have had many short con-
versations with him. As Frank Gr. Johnson, my opinion of him
was that of a quiet, unassuming bachelor, of a devoutly religious
turn, with no vices, and with sufficient money to supply his needs
and permit him to extend a helping hand where needed, which he
1913. The Case of Charle8 /'. Jirrtvin. 89
always did freely and generously. In short, I never for a moment
had a suspicion that Frank G. Johnson was any one but Frank G.
Johnson, a journeyman clothes-presser and tailor, and a gentleman.
So much for Frank G. Johnson. Thursday morning, June 27, my
father, Rev. J. C. Buchanan, formerly pastor of the Baptist church
at Pemberton, N.J., a town ten or twelve miles from Burlington,
called my attention to an item in the Philadelphia Press, to the effect
that Chas. P. Brewin had been found in Plainfield by a trolley con-
ductor named Alfred Woolman later known as a relative of a former
Sunday school scholar of Mr. Brewin and identified as his proper
self; that his relatives had been summoned, but that to everybody
he positively denied his identity as Brewin, insisting his name was
Johnson. I told my father I knew a Johnson, and on my describing
him, he was satisfied that it must be Brewin, and later, on a trip down
town, he met Mr. A. L. Fone, Editor of the Daily Press, and made
further inquiries of him, and in turn gave him the information in.
his possession. From this the reporters got hold of the case, and
from then on the life of Frank G. Johnson was one perpetual pester
and annoyance from this and other purely curious sources. I
mention this because I firmly believe it to be the cause for the
clearing up of the case. I am told by those intimately associated
with him, that from the time his brother and son first saw him
there began to show evidence of a mental struggle going on as to
whether his identity was what he claimed it to be. He would ask
his employer if he wasn't Johnson, etc., and would brood and stew
over it till his head ached. To such a pitch did this worry extend,
that, on the Saturday evening previous to his awakening, his head
ached so and was so congested, that he was compelled to stay in
the store long after closing and keep quiet. In other words,
physical causes were awakening to clear up the fog of four years,
and the old areas of mental processes were again grasping after old
and familiar facts, under the stimulus of old ideas and faces, brought
to a brain acting under increased blood pressure and excitement.
So much for Frank G. Johnson. Sunday evening, June 30, 1907, I
was summoned by Brewings landlad}*, Mrs. Dunn, to come at once, as
Mr. Johnson had suddenly waked up and become Brewin. I went
at once, taking my father, who had known Brewin years before and
very intimately. Arriving at the house, I told my father to wait in the
hall, while I went in the kitchen, where I found him eating a bit of
bread and butter, with a cup of tea. I found him white and some-
what weak, but perfectly clear mentally. My first remark,
"
Well,
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1913.
Mr. Brewin, I see you have come to yourself at last," elicited the
reply,
" Who are you 1
"
To my reply I added that I had a gentle-
man with me whom he probably knew. Calling my father in, Brewin
gave him one look, jumped to his feet saying,
"
Mr. Buchanan, how
are you?" and greeted him cordially. We then went into the
parlour, and all sat down, where we tried to get him acquainted with
facts as they existed. But it was a hard job. Had it not been for
my father, who was the only one he knew as Brewin, and in whom
he had implicit confidence, I think nothing we said would have
been believed. He told us of his awakening as if by a pistol shot,
finding himself in a strange place, his fear of being thought a burglar,
etc., all of which data you already have, and repetition is useless
here. So, too, is a detailed account of many things that occurred
in the evening. To be brief, everything "Johnson" and all of
"Johnson's" acts and acquaintanceships were gone, and Brewin was
back where he left off four years ago, and yet, note this, Brewin
was not clear on all points of Brewin's past ;
the full clearing of
his brain came rapidly, fact by fact. Of the many interesting bits
I recall during that evening talk, were his insistence that he left
Burlington an evening or so before, and he must get back or his
wife would worry about him ;
his telling me of his membership in
the Burlington Lodge of Foresters ;
and his blank surprise when
told he had joined in Plainfield the previous March, and had a
policy made out to an Anna Johnson, his sister, for $1,000, all of
which had documentary evidence ;
his after failure to recognize the
dog he petted, the landlady he had boarded with two years, her son
with whom he had stock dealings, his garden that he had planted,
etc. About 10 p.m. I saw he was getting tired, and I told him he
had better go to bed, and again I was amused at his asking where
to go. I took him to his room and he recognised nothing, asked if he
had slept there before, etc. He sat on the edge of the bed, put his
hand in his pocket and drew out a black pocket-book and said,
"Why, that isn't mine, my pocket-book is red." He disclaimed
ownership of the watch and chain he took off, which were not
the ones he had when he left (which he described, and which
description was the next day verified by his son), went to the closet
and recognized none of the clothes there, though he had worn them
all. He saw a card, on the bureau, of his present employer and asked
who that was. I told him it was the card of the lady by whom he
was employed, which didn't please him, and he emphatically declared
he was a boss tailor and worked for no women. I finally got him
.ii NT, 1913. The Case of Charles P. Brewin. 91
to bed, and he slept quietly till nine the next morning, awakening
clear in mind and with less distress in his head than he had had as
Brewin, four years before. Later in the day his brother and son came
on. The recognition was mutual and immediate, and later in the day
Brewin left for Pavonia to see the wife he left
"
the evening before,"
four years ago. After a week or so he came back with his wife,
and is filling out at the same bench the time he contracted for with
Miss Brown as Frank G. Johnson. His four years are a perfect
blank. He tells me he remembers nothing that took place, even
though he is again working in the same scenes of his last two years
as Johnson. His health is better, and he suffers less pain in his
head, though he cannot stand exposure to the sun. In short, his
employer has now working for her a Mr. Brewin, who is, with the
exception of a vastly improved mentality, the Frank G. Johnson,
and the said Brewin is quite as often addressed as Johnson as he is
as Brewin.
Of most of this interesting case you already have notes that
are copious and exact, and I need not repeat them here. I simply
want to add that the genuineness of the case is unquestionable.
Even now Brewin is having trouble in collecting back pension
due to him for the period of his existence as Johnson. The
principal facts that have struck me, psychical and physical, are
these :
1. The similarity between Johnson and Brewin in character. Both
are identical church-goers, quiet, unassuming ;
neither smokes, drinks
nor swears; both enjoy and frequently take trolley rides for pure
pleasure, enjoy church fairs and are liberal patrons. Both have a
" hanker" for minstrel shows.
2. The retention in Johnson of all professional skill that Brewin
possessed in the matter of tailoring in all its aspects, and Brewin
was an expert tailor.
3. The retention by Johnson of much of the head distress, and
remedies therefor, that Brewin had, and since describes as having
had, as Brewin, for years. Johnson used peppermint constantly to
cool his head, a favourite remedy of Brewin's.
4. The absolute loss by Brewin of his store of memories of Brewin
that represented his life in every aspect, as I can analyze it, except as
stated in 1, 2; and 3.
5. The creation of Frank G. Johnson, with all it gives rise to in
the way of query. When did Johnson evolve from Brewin? Why
was he Johnson and not Smith 1 Where did he set his stock of
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1913.
parents, relatives, etc., as Johnson? Who were the friends he had
since he was Brewin no more? etc.
6. And, finally, what is the physical basis ? . . .
Look at the history : Increased blood pressure from worry and
thought as to his identity, finally severe headaches, a crack, and the
mind clears, and gradually, fact by fact, the whole past life of Brewin
returns and Brewin is himself again. But where did Johnson go?
For he has gone and his four years are gone, and a careful
examination yesterday (Sept. 21, '07) shows no evidence of hi&
presence.
As to the way in which Mr. Brewin spent the period of
his absence, the facts, so far as they can be ascertained, are as
follows: He left home on November 9, 1903; in April, 1905,
he came to Plainfield (ostensibly from New York), and applied
for work to Miss Brown, who kept a dyeing and pressing
establishment.
"
When he came she did not like his looks,
and was reluctant to employ him, but in response to the desire
to let him show what he could do, she set him to pressing as
an experiment, and found him an excellent workman, and gave
him employment. . . . His work was satisfactory and regular."
In October, 1905, he went to board with Mrs. Dunn. She
and several other people, who knew him at this time, describe
him as a man of
"
exemplary habits," very quiet and regular in
his way of life.
"
He neither smoked nor drank." He
frequently complained of headaches, and was said to have had
a
"
spell
"
in church, which was attributed to heart trouble. He
does not seem to have said much of his own antecedents. He
told Mrs. Dunn that
his father was an Englishman. He did not give his father's full
name nor where he lived. But he said his father's mother had married
a second time and be himself, Mr. Johnson's father, did not like his
stepfather, and left home as a boy or young man and came to this
country. His father's mother had frequently sent money to his father
from England. Hints here and there showed that his father lived in
the country, but no particular place was mentioned. . . . His father
married a second time after the death of his mother, the second wife
still living (in New York I understood) and had a daughter by her,
a stepsister, whom an insurance policy, taken out while he was
Johnson, named as beneficiary.
JUKE, 1913. The Case of Charles P. Breioin. 93
This policy was taken out in the Foresters for $1,000, Mr.
Brewin being already insured in this society under his own
name. In his application as Frank G. Johnson he gave the
date of his birth as February 22, 1858, he stated that his
father had died at the age of 61 years as the result of a fall
from his horse, and that his mother had died at the age of 43
years of pneumonia. He named as his own trade that of mer-
chant tailor. In case of his death, the insurance money was to
be paid to Anna D. Johnson, aged 23.
These statements contain a curious mixture of truth and
falsity. Mr. Brewin was born on February 22, 1848, exactly
ten years earlier than the date given as that of Johnson's birth,
his father died of pneumonia (not his mother, as stated by
Johnson), at the age of 47, his mother died at the age of 70
from old age. It is to be noted that his mother survived his
father, and there is, therefore, no truth in the statement made
to Mrs. Dunn as to his father having married again and having
had a daughter, the stepsister mentioned in the insurance policy.
So far as is known, there was no such person as Anna D.
Johnson in existence. It is true that Mr. Brewin was a merchant
tailor, but Johnson, at the time when the insurance policy was
taken out, was working as a presser of clothes. The date of
the policy was February 15, 1907, only a few months before
Mr. Brewin's return to normal consciousness.
It will be observed that Mr. Brewin came to Plainfield in
April, 1905, having left home in November, 1903. There is,
therefore, a period of nearly eighteen months to be accounted for.
As to what Mr. Brewin did during this period nothing has been
ascertained. He told Mrs. Dunn that he had worked for various
tailoring firms in New York. One of these declared that they
had never employed any such man ;
there is no statement in the
report as to whether the other firms have been questioned.
Mr. Brewin also stated that he had known in New York a
Dr. Fithian, whom he had met in connexion with some mission-
ary work at a Baptist church in West 16th Street. It has not
been possible to find any one called Fithian connected with that
church during the period of Mr. Brewin's supposed stay in New
York. A Mr. Fithian began to attend services there in the
summer of 1908, but he knew nothing of Frank G. Johnson.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNK, 1913.
One other incident of interest has been noted in connexion
with Mr. Brewin's restoration to his primary state of conscious-
ness. It was on the 24th or 25th of June, 1907, that the
question of
"
Frank Johnson's
"
identity was first raised by the
trolley car conductor ;
in the course of the next few days, Mr.
Brewin saw (and failed to recognise) his son and his brother:
he was also interviewed by several newspaper reporters. On
Saturday night, June 29, 1907, he told Mrs. Dunn of a
dream he had in the store,
. . . that he had fallen asleep on the counter where he was press-
ing clothes. He dreamed that he was at Asbury Park and saw a
large boarding house. There was a piazza in front and the ap-
proach to it was a broad walk. The peculiar feature of the walk
was a tree growing up in the centre of it. ... He said the dream
made an impression on his mind and he referred to it several
times that evening.
Sunday morning he told me he had had the same dream during
the night and repeated the details as before He said :
" I believe
I could go to Asbury Park and find that house." I said: "Of
course, it was all a dream, and the house does not exist." But he
said it all seemed so real to him.
On Monday morning, July 1, 1907, after Mr. Brewin's
return to his primary personality, Mrs. Dunn told him of
this dream.
He at once spoke up :
" Did I tell you I dreamed that ? There
was just such a place as that. We went there several successive
summers. The proprietor was a man by the name of Brown. . . ."
He said :
" It is the same name as yours," referring to Miss
Brown [his employer at Plainfield]. . . . He then asked Miss
Brown if she would be so kind as to write to the man, giving the
number on Third Avenue, Asbury Park, and see if this was
correct. The son confirmed the fact that they had visited the
place described.
The dream is interesting as marking the first re-emergence
of Mr. Brewin's lost memories. It was perhaps the con-
nexion through the name Brown with his life as Frank
Johnson which caused this particular memory to be evoked.
JUNE, 1913. 77" Case of Charles P. Brewin. 95
As to the circumstances which led to the loss of memory
Dr. Hyslop writes :
On questioning him I find that he had a sunstroke in 1865,
while in the war, and has always felt the effect of sunheat ever
since. He is more sensitive to it now than before his lapse of
normal personality. He ever afterwards had a pain in his head,
affecting the back part of it
especially. He says he used to tell
his doctor that there was something 'clodding' his brain in the
back of his head. In 1879 he ... heard a sound like a pistol
shot in his head. He soon became dizzy, ... he was examined by
a Mt. Holly physician who said the trouble was with his eye. . . .
Then a physician at a hospital finally told him he had a hemor-
rhage of a blood vessel in the left eye. . . .
Probably it was the
bursting of this vessel that he had felt as a pistol shot.
Before he disappeared from home, his wife says, he had not been
able to attend to business. . . . Mrs. Brewin says he left home on
Monday morning, November 9, 1903. He had not been out of bed
for some time, but Sunday morning [November 8, 1903] he came
downstairs. . . . He got up the next morning and seemed nervous,
and left the house about 8 a.m. He said he was going to the
store. . . . Her daughter-in-law's brother saw him in the station.
. . . That was the last that was known of him until they learnt
some days later that he had been seen crossing the ferry on the
Delaware river.
It is interesting to compare this account of the physical
conditions preceding Mr. Brewin's lapse from his primary per-
sonality with those in the case of Ansel Bourne. Mr. Bourne
also had suffered from a very severe sunstroke, and he had
had, as a young man, trouble with his eyes and frequent
headaches. His experience at the time of his return to normal
consciousness is also not unlike that of Mr. Brewin.
On the morning of Monday, March 14th, about five o'clock, he
heard, he says, an explosion like the report of a gun or pistol,
and, waking, he noticed that there was a ridge in his bed not like
the bed he had been accustomed to sleep in. ... He felt very
weak, and thought he had been drugged. His next sensation was
that of fear, knowing that he was in a place where he had no
business to be. He feared arrest as a burglar. . . .
[Proc. S.P.K.,
Vol. VII. p. 231.]
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1913
The two cases are also similar in the fact that there was
not an absolutely complete cleavage between the primary and
secondary personalities. The most noticeable points of dis-
similarity between the cases are :
(1) The lapse from the primary state of consciousness lasted
in the case of Ansel Bourne for only eight weeks, whereas in
Mr. Brewin's case it lasted four years ;
(2) The return to the primary state of consciousness was with
Ansel Bourne spontaneous, whereas with Mr. Brewin it was no
doubt hastened, if not wholly induced, by the car-conductor's
recognition of him and the events consequent on this.
Dr. Hyslop was anxious to try some experiments in hypno-
tism, as were tried in the case of Ansel Bourne, with a view
to recovering
"
Frank Johnson's
"
lost memories, but this was
not allowed. It is unfortunate that there is no evidence at
all as to how Mr. Brewin spent the first eighteen months after
he left home. There does not, however, seem to be any reason
for suspecting fraud ;
there was no apparent motive for fraud,
and Mr. Brewin's conduct from the time when he first came
under observation as Frank Johnson was such as to convince
all who came into contact with him of his complete
honesty.
In summing up the case, Dr. Hyslop says :
There is no special conclusion to be maintained, except that the
evidence, so far as it
goes, tends to establish a genuine case of
secondary personality, with complete cleavage between the primary
and secondary states, in so far as self-consciousness and normal
memory are concerned, though there is as distinct evidence that the
mental contents of the two states sometimes interfused and sometimes
did not, the secondary state adding incidents that were not provably
a part of the normal memory.
In April, 1913, Mr. Brewin was reported to be still
perfectly normal and carrying on business on his own account.
H. DE G. V.
No. CCCI.-VoL. XVI. .Jn.v, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTKNTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, .... 97
Meeting of the Council, - - - - 98
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, 98
Report on a Case of Telepathy. By Sir Oliver Lodge - - - 102
Notes on Current Periodicals
'
- -
111
The Rooms of the Society at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., will
"be closed during August and September, re-opening on Wednesday,
October 1st.
The next number of the Journal will be issued in October.
NKW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
lonides, A. C., Junr., 34 Porchester Terrace, London, W.
Mildmay, The Hon. Mrs. St. John, 121 Mount Street, London,
W.
Shaw, Mrs. Bernard, 10 Adelphi Terrace, Strand, London, W.C.
Smith, Mrs. Ruthven, 81 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
ACLAND-HOOD, LADY HELENA, 46 Burton Court, London, S.W.
BANDON, THE COUNTESS OF, Castle Bernard, Bandon, Co. Cork,
Ireland.
BRAIN, ERNEST, 7 St. George's Square, Regent's Park, London,
N.W.
FISK, REV. GEORGE, Tsingchowfu, Shantung, China.
GRIFFITH, MRS. R. W., Sherborne House, Portishead, Somerset.
MARTINENGO-CESARESCO, COUNTESS, Palazzo Martinengo, Sale, Lago
di Garda, Italy.
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1913.
MATESDORF, Miss SYBIL, 83 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
MEISSNER, MRS. DE, c/o Union of London and Smith's Bank, 2'
Prince's Street, London, E.G.
MUKERJEA, DR. M. M., Uttarpara, Calcutta, India.
SMITH, R. F. RUTHVEN, 81 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
WYNDHAM, MRS., 201 West 54th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 123rd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, July 3rd, 1913, at
6 p.m. ;
MR. H. ARTHUR SMITH in the chair. There were
also present: Mr. Ernest N. Bennett, Mr. W. M'Dougall,.
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Dr. C. Lloyd
Tuckey, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also Miss Alice Johnson,
Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Four new Members and eleven new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for May and June, 1913, were pre-
sented and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 46th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, July 3rd, 1913, at 4 p.m.;
MR. W. M'DOUGALL in the chair.
MR. E. BULLOUGH and DR. V. J. WOOLLEY read a paper on
"
The '
Thinking
'
Horses of Elberfeld," Mr. Bullough describ-
ing the history of the case, and Dr. Woolley the experiments
which he and Mr. Bullough conducted. The following is an
abstract of the paper :
MR. BULLOUGH related how in 1890 a certain Herr von Osten
observed that a horse, which he used to ride and drive, responded
apparently intelligently to commands. He took up the idea of per-
fecting this rudimentary education. After a short period of training,
he succeeded in obtaining perfect responses to orders such as
"
stop,"
JULY, 1913. Private Meeting for Members and Associates. 99
" turn to the left,"
"
walk," etc., and was able to drive his horse,
without touching the reins, along even the crowded thoroughfares
of Berlin. The success of this teaching suggested to him the idea of
putting his horse through a regular course of instruction, when the
horse, subsequently known as "
Hans I.," died.
In 1900 he bought a five-year-old Russian stallion, destined to
become "der kluge Hans" who, as the result of a prolonged and
patient course of instruction, acquired a surprising proficiency in
elementary arithmetic and spelling. In September, 1904, public
curiosity having been aroused, a committee was formed to investigate
the case. This first committee was chiefly concerned with the
question as to whether any trick, in the sense of an intentional aid
on the part of the questioner, was responsible for the results obtained.
The conclusion arrived at by the committee was that no trick or
even unintentional sign was employed, but they reserved their opinion
as to the intellectual powers of the horse.
A further investigation was undertaken in October, 1904, by
Professor Stumf, together with Dr. von Hornbostel and Dr. Pfungst-
The result was to discredit Hans's alleged intelligence. The
investigators concluded that the horse was guided in his answers
by a visual sign in the shape of unconscious movements of the head
on the part of the questioner, these movements being so small as
to have completely escaped the notice of the previous committee.
In 1905, however, von Osten came into contact with Herr Krallr
a jeweller of Elberfeld, who had never previously handled horsesr
and was interested only in the scientific aspect of the matter.
After working with Hans, he became convinced that the animal
possessed genuine intelligence, and decided to try experiments of
his own. In 1908, therefore, he bought two Arab stallions, Muhamed
and Zarif, and began with them a systematic course of instruction, on
the lines of elementary school-teaching. Spatial relations, counting,
then addition and subtraction, the multiplication table (up to 12x12)
and division, date-reckoning, squaring and the extraction of roots,
reading and spelling (with a much simplified spelling table) were
successively explained and demonstrated. Mr. Krall is of opinion
that mere arithmetical performances are no satisfactory test of
intelligence, since it is well known that even mentally-deficient
human beings are capable of performing the most remarkable
calculating feats. He was, therefore, anxious to use arithmetic only
as an avenue to mutual understanding and as a basis especially
of spontaneous utterances on the part of the horses. He gives in
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1913.
his book several instances of such spontaneous utterances, and told
the investigators of others, which, granting the initial assumption
of intelligence, are certainly interesting in the highest degree.
The first step in the training of the horse is to "
tame "
him, i.e. to
make him familiar with his master. The second and far more difficult
stage is to teach him to control his movements, so as to adapt them
to responsive expressions. This appears to be a step which some of
the animals find great difficulty in taking. Assuming that the horses
have a conception of number, as the investigators are inclined to think,
after some rather striking performances which they witnessed, this is
developed, at this stage of their education, in the form of movement-
images. The groom, who assists during this stage, takes the horse's
right hoof and beats with it upon the stamping-board, while Herr
Krall counts aloud. Gradually the horse, gaining control and under-
standing what he is to do, stamps on his own account.
With the help of a simplified spelling table the horses learnt to
spell, each letter being represented by a number. The association
between each letter and a certain number being once formed, the
spelling of words written on the blackboard was merely a matter
of memory. Something far more complicated, but at present inex-
plicable was achieved, when the horses began to spell out spontaneous
statements. After many fruitless attempts to teach the horses the
complicated German orthography, Herr Krall finally left them to their
own devices, which produced a very erratic but sometimes ingeniously
phonetic spelling, e.g. sn for essen, gn for gehen, etc.
In the course of time, encouraged by the success he met with in
Muhamed and Zarif, Herr Krall attempted the education of other horses.
The most important of these was the blind Berto, a Mecklenburg
stallion of a charger type. His blindness was of special importance
to Herr Krall in view of the visual-sign theory. Tactile impressions
had to take the place of visual percepts in establishing the necessary
associations. The work of this horse is limited to elementary arithmetic;
he reacts to spoken problems, but will also answer simple questions
written on his flank. It was mostly with Berto that the investigators
worked during their stay at Elberfeld.
DR. WOOLLEY, after expressing his gratitude to Mr. Krall for the
freedom allowed to him and to Mr. Bullough in their experiments,
outlined the four possible explanations which the investigators had
to test. These were :
(1) The horses might really possess the
intellectual abilities ascribed to them by their owner. (2) They might
by this time have learnt by heart the answers to all the problems
,ii iv, r.n:i. Private Meeting for M'embers a/< -. 101
which could be presented to them. (3) They might respond to signals
given consciously or unconsciously by some person present. (4) They
might respond to some supernormal influence exerted by some such
person.
He regretted that they were unable to give any definite solution
of the problem, and could only point out the difficulties in the way
of each of these possibilities.
Their experiments, which were carried out at Elberfeld early in
April, 1913, were greatly hindered by the fact that in the spring
the horses become obstinate and intractable. At that time Mr. Krall
himself was unable to obtain any results from his Arab, Zarif, and
said that his other horses, especially Muhamed, were very difficult
to work with. In consequence, the experiments described were carried
out almost entirely with the horse, Berto. This animal is completely
blind, and the results obtained when the questions were spoken aloud
were very good. If, therefore, the horse does respond to any signals,
these must be auditory, and not visual, in character, and as there is
no appreciable difference between the behaviour of this horse and that
of the others, it is very improbable that Pfungst's theory of unconscious
head movements is adequate to explain the phenomena.
The blind horse, however, is also able to count numbers which are
written with the finger on his flank. Dr. Woolley and Mr. Bullough
made use of this faculty to investigate the possibility of signals or tele-
pathic impressions being conveyed to the horse from one of themselves.
In the first instance, each of them wrote on the horse's off side one digit
of a number of two digits, neither knowing the number written by the
other. (The groom, who is obliged to be present with this horse, was
on the near side and could not see what was written.) If either of
them was giving signals to the horse the numbers known to him should
be rendered more correctly than the others. No such difference was
found to occur, and they next proceeded to write in the same way two
numbers which were to be added together. The object aimed at was
to give the horse a problem which was unknown to any one present,
each of the experimenters contributing one digit which was unknown
to the other. The results were rather poor: out of 19 such problems
the horse gave the correct result at the first attempt in only three
cases, at the second attempt in one, and at the third attempt in two
cases, but it was not at all certain that the horse understood clearly
what was wanted. That there was probably some confusion was
evidenced by the fact that in four out of the first eight such problems
the horse began by giving the number last written, a fact which seems
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1913.
opposed to any theory of either signals or telepathy, since such a
number could not possibly be the correct answer to the problem.
The faculties of the other horses were then considered, though,
owing to the unfavourable time of year, the investigators had had
no opportunity of seeing them at their best. They had seen no
instances of the horses' alleged faculty of spelling out spontaneous
statements or words. They had seen Muhamed answer correctly to
written problems, including the extraction of fourth roots of large
numbers, but these performances were open to the criticism that all
the numbers so given were perfect fourth powers, and the horse might
by that time have learnt by heart all the problems which were ever
set. With this horse, however, and with the Shetland pony, Hans-
chen, they received correct answers to simple arithmetical problems
when no person beside themselves was present, and when the grooms
were apparently engaged elsewhere with the other horses. They very
much regretted that it had not been possible to propound to these
horses problems which were unknown to any person present. In
the case of Hanschen there was no satisfactory method of doing this,
and Muhamed was too intractable for any but the most familiar
experiments. Since, however, it was quite impossible to exclude the
possibility of unconscious auditory signals, which could be perceived
by an animal so sensitive as the horse, it was evident that only such
problems could be regarded as constituting a satisfactory test. They
hoped to visit Elberfeld again in the autumn when the condition of
the horses might make possible a more definite conclusion.
Dr. Woolley concluded by summarizing his and Mr. Bullough's
present opinions as follows :
(1) Mr. Krall and the grooms are entirely
honest in all their experiments and tests, and are anxious only to
establish the truth. (2) In the experiments they saw, the possibility
of unconscious signals was not entirely excluded, but if there were such
signals, they were probably auditory and not visual. (3) The horses'
movements appeared to be too quick and definite to be dependent
on signals, and nothing of the sort could be detected by observation.
KEPOET ON A CASE OF TELEPATHY.
BY SIR OLIVER LODGE.
[The following is a preliminary report by Sir Oliver Lodge
of a case of experimental telepathy. We hope to obtain
JULY, 1913. Report on a Case of Telepathy. 103
permission to carry out further experiments with the same
subject and to report on them later. ED.]
May 23rd, 1913.
I WENT last Saturday to see a child who was said to have
i'aculties which might be classified both as telepathic and
clairvoyant. I had had reports on the case from a friend of
Mr. J. Arthur Hill of Bradford, Mr. Percy Lund, who had
been good enough to make a special journey to the place for
the purpose, and whose report was quite favourable, at least
as regards telepathy. What I wanted to make sure of was
the faculty of clairvoyance, as distinct from or as an extension
of telepathy, but in that I have not been successful. At the
same time, certain things are described by the child's father
which make me think that the perception of objects unknown
to any one does occur, though of course it requires most careful
verification.
I went by invitation of the father, who originally com-
municated with me and sent me preliminary information.
The child is a girl of, I should have guessed, about ten,
but she told me she was thirteen. She goes to some Dame
School in the neighbourhood, and is undeveloped for her age.
She seemed quite willing to try, and anxious to succeed ;
rather nervous, naturally, at first, especially as the father,
in his desire that my time should not be wasted, was
anxious too; so that I felt that the conditions became
more satisfactory when he went away into another room.
At first, however, and unless otherwise reported, he was
present, and every now and then he tried a few experi-
ments himself with his own pack of cards. I may say at
once that I saw no reason to mistrust that pack, or to
assume that there was anything but absolute genuineness
in the whole case. Once at a later stage, when selecting a
card, I myself purposely drew it out carelessly so as to
expose it for a moment. The child didn't happen to be
looking. The father noticed it, and called my attention to
the fact, and said what he thought the card was. It was
not quite right, but nearly so. The child said she hadn't
seen it, which I was convinced was true, but my record
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1913.
shows that she guessed it correctly :
though of course this i&
not an experiment that
"
counts."
The father took no elaborate precautions about his pack,
and evidently made his own tests in his usual way,
the pack being held up in his hand with one card turned
face towards himself, or occasionally a single card held out :
no particular system, nor any special precautions ;
the child
sometimes looking at him attentively, but usually glancing
about anywhere. Sometimes she was successful instantaneously,
as quickly as the Zancigs, for instance ;
at other times she
made two shots, sometimes more, and seemed to wish to go-
on until she got it right, which she did usually, though by
no means always. After several guesses I generally stopped
her, either by showing her the card, or by discarding it unseen.
I had taken with me my own pack of cards and a box of
cardboard letters. I began by trying a set of seven letters
taken out of the box at random, and placed face downwards
on my paper-case, so that I had seen none of them. I asked
the .child to guess the letters, and she said slowly :
S, A, R, T, B, U, G.
I then turned them up, and found that they really were
E, L, M, H, S, Q, N.
The child said, "There's one right"; but of course the failure
was complete.
I then took six letters out of the box, and glanced at them
as I put them down. She now said :
F, B, C, E, O, P.
They really were
F, P, S, J. G, Z.
So in this case two were right, and one right as regards
position. Again, however, a failure, though really above chance.
I then took single letters out of the box, and held them in
my hands, so that I could see them, but she certainly couldn't.
The first letter was E, and she said R.
The next was N, .and she said, "Is it G ?
"
I said "No";
and she said,
"
It's an N."
I then took another R, which she first called an H, and
then an R.
Next a Q, to which she first said F, and then Q.
.ii IA, 1913. Report on a Case of Telepathy. 105
I next tried some cards from my pack. .
The father and I
could both see what the card was ;
the child could not. Her
replies were usually quite quick, that is, after a few seconds,
sometimes perhaps as many as ten, which would be an extreme
case ;
but I didn't time her, because I was otherwise engaged
in watching both father and child. The cards actually seen
by us are recorded in the first column ;
her answers are
recorded in the second column. When more than one guess
was made, she often prefixed her first guess with "Is it?" to
which either we said
"
No,
5
'
or shook our heads.
Actual Card. Card Guessed.
Six of Diamonds. Six of Diamonds.
Eight of Spades. Five ;
Six;
Eight of Spades.
Nine of Spades. Nine of Spades.
Seven of Spades. Eight ;
Seven of Spades.
Nine of Diamonds. Face Card.
Nine of Spades.
Nine of Diamonds.
I then went back to the box of letters, spelling the word
HOME inside the lid of the box, and looking at it while I
asked her to guess a word of four letters. She didn't do it.
The father now took up his own pack of cards, and began
dealing with them as explained above.
It appears that he had returned home that afternoon from
his week's work in -
,
where he is a clerk of the works
at some building being erected in , and had spent a
little time early in the afternoon testing the child in pre-
ration for my visit, finding her remarkably successful, and
able to guess cards with great rapidity, even before he or
ny one had seen them. An aunt on a visit (a primary
schoolmistress at , B.A.Lond.), whom I met afterwards
t tea, confirmed this, adding that she had previously been
sceptical. I did not gather that any record was kept.
He now began to repeat the sort of thing he was accus-
tomed to do, in order to let me see it. The girl was sometimes
standing, sometimes sitting, in front of her father, who was
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1913.
sitting on a sofa. The test, as I have said above, was a
genuine one, though not conducted with scrupulous care. No
attempt was made to bandage the eyes of the child, nor to
interfere with her liberty of movement, which consisted chiefly
in fidgeting. He did not seem to consider the series very
good.
The following is the record of this series of tests made
while I was present. (As before, the card was held so that
we could both see it, but the child couldn't.) Her successive
guesses, when there was more than one, are given in the right-
hand column ;
the actual card in the left-hand column.
Father's cards, tried by him.
Actual Card. Card Guessed.
Five of Clubs. Four ;
a Six ;
a Three.
Two of Diamonds. Three of Hearts.
Knave of Diamonds. Jack of Diamonds.
Ten of Hearts. An Eight; an Ace.
Four of Clubs. Four of Clubs.
Five of Hearts. Five of Hearts.
Nine of Hearts. An Ace ;
an Eight ;
a Nine of Clubs ;
it is a
Nine; Hearts.
King of Spades. Jack of Spades ; King.
Queen of Hearts. An Ace ; Queen of Hearts.
Queen of Spades. King; Queen of Spades.
Knave of Spades. Red ;
a Two ; Eight of Spades.
Ace of Clubs. Ace of Spades ;
Black ;
Ace of Clubs.
I now again took my own pack of cards in my hands,
holding them up before my face and turning a card over, so
that I appeared to be looking at it, though sometimes I was
not. No one else could see it.
The first card was unseen. She guessed a Five, a Five of
'Clubs. On looking, I found it was the Five of Diamonds.
The next card I saw. She guessed a Two, a Four, a Four
of Hearts. It was the Four of Hearts.
The next card was intended to be unseen, but I caught a
glimpse of it, probably seeing no more than that it was nearly
bare. She guessed the Ace of Hearts, and it was.
The next card was also seen, being the King of Diamonds.
-She guessed an Eight; a King; of Spades; of Hearts. I then
JULY, r.i:<.
Report on a Case of Telepat/<>/. 107
stopped her and said,
"
It's now only guessing
"
;
because I had
admitted that it was a King.
The next card I purposely drew carelessly, and this was
when the father said he had half seen it. It was the Ten of
Clubs. He said he thought it was a black Eight. The child
said she hadn't seen it, but guessed the Ten of Clubs. Of
-course it was no safe test, but was done with another object,
which was satisfactory.
The next card I saw, being the Ten of Diamonds, and she
guessed it at once.
(It must be understood that in this series of tests, unless
otherwise stated, I alone was looking at the cards not the
father, who was sitting on the sofa, with the child by his side.)
The next card was unseen. She guessed Ace of Diamonds.
It was the Two of Clubs.
The next, also unseen, she guessed Three of Diamonds. It
was Four of Spades.
I didn't tell her that these were wrong, and I went on
trying my pack of cards in another way, at first simply cutting
the pack and pointing to the top card without turning it up
or knowing what it was until she had made a guess. She
said,
"
Two of Hearts
"
; also,
"
It's a red card." I then looked,
and said
"
No," leaving it, however, still in position. She
guessed successively Four of Spades, Two of Spades, Two of
Hearts. I then showed it to the father, the child being not
then near him, and she immediately said
"
Three of Spades,"
which it was.
I then drew cards from my pack and looked at them
momentarily, afterwards putting them face down for her to
guess. The first was the Knave of Clubs. Her guesses
were :
"
Face card
"
;
"
Jack of ... red, I think
"
;
"
Jack of
Clubs."
The next was the Ten of Clubs. She said,
"
Is it a face
card?" I said "No." She said, "Six." I told her it was
wrong, and went on to the next, which was the Nine of Clubs;
and again she failed, making several wrong guesses.
The next was the Ten of Hearts, and her guesses were :
Eight ;
Face card ;
Seven ;
Heart ;
Ten.
The father suggested trying a drawing of a geometrical figure.
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1913,
I drew a square with the diagonals, and said,
"
It is a figure."
Her guess was 57. She evidently had not heard the kind of
thing we had arranged, though no precautions were taken about
it. The father then told her it was a simple drawing, on which
she said, "A star/' and then, "A square." I then said, "Perhaps
you would like to try a figure of the sort you expected. Here
is a number of two figures." By that time I had drawn 68
on a piece of paper, which we both looked at. Her guesses
were: 22, 97, 7, 10.
The father began to be discouraged, and to fidget at her
lack of success ;
for though it had been on the whole above
chance, it was obviously not satisfactory. So I asked him to
go away, which he did ;
while I talked to the child about her
school, and some picture-books, and such like, till I thought
she was rested.
Then I took my pack of cards, drawing one from the middle,
and holding it low down against my body without looking at
it. She didn't make a guess, so I looked at it, that is, gave a
glance at it for a moment, keeping iny hand well over it all
the time, practically hiding even the back of the card, only
the top edge being visible, that she might see a card was there.
She said, "Queen of Hearts," which was right.
I was wearing no glasses, and the method adopted put any
possible reflexion from the cornea out of court.
I drew another unseen card, my object in drawing them thus
being not to give her a suggestion that I didn't know them,
but to let her have a fair chance at them, not telling her
whether I knew them or not. I could at any time see them
if I wanted to, by tilting my hand very slightly and looking
down. The child from her position in front of me hadn't the
remotest chance of seeing anything. It is not suggested that
she was unable to see whether I looked at the card or not ;
but I have no reason to suppose that she particularly noticed
even that. She got a paper and pencil to keep a record of
her guesses, her father having said something about a penny
a dozen if she got them right, while I hinted at a rather more
liberal offer. This certainly seemed to have the effect of
making it less boring to her.
I held the unseen card, as said above, with my hand covering
,IM,, mi;;.
fteport on a Ctwe of Telepathy. 109
it, against myself. She said,
"
Is it a face card?" and I had
to take a glance at it in order to say
"
No." She then said,
"
Five of Hearts." I again said
"
No." She said,
"
At any rate,
it is a Heart." I said,
"
Yes." She said,
"
A Nine ?
" "
No."
"An Eight?" "Yes." It was the Eight of Hearts.
Another unseen card. She said,
"
Is it an ace ?
"
I looked
and said
"
No.
'
She immediately said,
"
Seven of Hearts," which
it was.
To the next unseen card she said,
"
Three of Spades ?
"
I
looked, and she said,
"
Six of Hearts." Eight.
Another unseen card she guessed Four of Spades. I looked,
and she said,
"
Five of Hearts," which was right.
It is to be understood that the card was held low down
near my lap, with my hand over it ;
that they were all cards
out of my pack ;
that the father was out of the room. And
it was noteworthy that the clairvoyant attempts all failed ;
that until I knew what the card was, she rather stared about,
seeming to have no clue. I too felt that she had none, and
that the experiment was rather hopeless in that form, though
of course I didn't consciously give any indication of that feel-
ing. But directly I knew what the card was, though I only
had a momentary glimpse of it, she guessed right. Accor-
dingly, sometimes now I answered
"
No "
to her first question
without really knowing whether it was right or wrong, so as
to give her an opportunity of more guesses at the unseen card
before I looked at it. When more guesses than one are re-
corded in the first line, that is what happened ;
and it may
be taken that I answered
"
No "
in each case until she guessed
right. With this explanation, I may tabulate the successive
experiments :
ICard
first unseen, then same card seen ty inc.
Actual Card. Card guessed.
,rd unseen. Three of Spades.
en : Six of Spades. Is it a Four ? Is it a Five
1
? Is it a Three ?
Knave of Hearts. Half seen Ace of Spades, Face card. A Heart.
by me at first. Not really Jack.
seen, but I practically
knew it was a picture
card.
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1913.
Card unseen.
Seen :
King of Diamonds.
Card unseen.
Seen :
Queen of Diamonds.
Card unseen.
Five of Spades.
Face card. King. Red. King of Dia-
monds.
Three of Clubs. Face card.
Queen. Red. Queen of Diamonds.
Two of Spades. Not a face card. Red.
Seen : Knave of Diamonds. A Six. An Ace.
She now seemed to be getting rather tired again, so I gave
up the unseen tests, and looked at the card from the first, still
holding it down, well screened, and only just seeing it myself.
At about this stage, or a little before, the father returned to
the room, standing at the door and telling us to go to tea.
This seemed to put the child off it, so I got him to go away,
and said we would come soon. The child said,
"
Let us do-
four more
"
;
and the record follows :
Actual Card.
Five of Spades. Seen by
me.
Four of Spades. Seen.
Card unseen.
Same card seen : Ten of
Diamonds.
Ace of Diamonds. Seen.
Card guessed.
Four of Spades. A Spade. A Three.
A Five of Spades.
Six. Red. Face card. Four. Black.
Spade.
Three. Three of Spades. Spade.
Face card. Eight of Clubs. Red.
Diamond. Eight of Diamonds.
Five of Clubs. Red. Diamond. Face
card. Six. Eight.
They were not by any means so successful as they had-
been, and some were failures ;
so we went to tea.
After tea there was not much more time. The father was
in at first. An unseen Queen of Clubs was guessed Four of
Spades. An unseen Four of Diamonds was guessed as the Six of
Clubs, but when seen by me was guessed as the Four of Diamonds,
An unseen Ace of Spades was guessed as the Three of Clubs,
I then drew an elementary back view of a cat, the father
having once more gone out. She said,
"
A square thing, like
a picture," drawing a square with the two cords, like a hang-
ing picture frame. Then she said,
"
A round thing with flowers-
in it," drawing a thing not wholly unlike part of it.
JULY, 1913.
Report on a Cane of Telepathy. 1 1 I
I drew the head of an animal which might be a horse or
a donkey ;
likewise a locomotive ;
but she got nothing of these.
Only one more card trial was made. The Four of Hearts
unseen was given as the Ten of Diamonds. The atmosphere
was fidgety, and it was time to go to catch a train.
As far as I could judge from this single interview, there
seemed plenty of evidence for telepathy, if telepathy is the
explanation, as I must assume it is. But personally I have
seen no evidence of anything more, though the child's father
believes that she is able occasionally to guess cards seen by
no one. The difference between this case and the old Liver-
pool experiments
l
was that there some time was always
allowed, and seemed to be necessary, for getting the impression ;
whereas in this case, though the guess is often wrong, it is
made very quickly, especially quickly when it is right the first
time ;
sometimes immediately the card is turned up, which of
course looks like some method of normal seeing. But my
testimony is that normal seeing, however indirect and reflected,
is not the explanation.
NOTES ON CUKKENT PEEIODICALS.
IN the April Number of the Hibbert Journal, Mr. G. W. Balfour has
a singularly suggestive article on "
Telepathy and Metaphysics."
Taking "telepathy" in a psychical and positive sense, i.e. not as a
denial of ordinary communication through the senses, but as direct
apprehension of one mind's thought by another, he urges that cross-
correspondences and mystical experiences afford evidence enough to
warrant giving up the assumption that individual minds are completely
insulated and impermeable to each other. The individual mind is
to be conceived as
"
polypsychic," and its "true self" as receiving
direct influences from subordinate streams of consciousness with which
it interacts, and this interaction is essentially telepathic. Hence there
may be telepathy between embodied minds, between embodied and
disembodied, between disembodied, and between the conscious con-
stituents attached to a single body. Telepathy is thus universal, but
it appears to be exceptional, because most of it is
"
intracorporeal," and
most minds are only attuned to respond to the messages of their
immediate associates in the same body. Also telepathic interaction
between minds rarely takes the form of particular messages, because
Proceedings, Vol. L, pp. 263-283; Vol. II., pp. 24-42, 189-200;
Vol. III., pp. 424-452.
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1913.
most of it
expresses itself in the diffusion of general ideas, which is
not evidential. Mr. Balfour concludes that his theory points towards
pluralism and theism rather than towards monism and pantheism.
The Archives de Psychologie, No. 49 (April, 1913), contains an
elaborate article on an interesting case of "
Emotional Epilepsy," by
EL Flournoy. The patient, a woman of forty-six, was subject to fits,
apparently epileptic, in which she turned her head to the left, and
lost consciousness, after recovering which she frequently complained of
a pain in her neck. She was hypnotised, and then revealed that her
husband often treated her brutally, caught her by the throat and
beat her, and that on such occasions she was wont to turn away
towards the left, as he was on her right. The first fit occurred
after seven years of this treatment, but the article concerns itself
rather with the differences between this "emotional" epilepsy and
the normal disease than with the cure of the patient, and accord-
ingly hypnotic suggestions were made, not to stop the fits, but to
provoke them artificially. These attempts failed, but it is permissible
to think that science would have profited quite as much if the
patient had been cured by making therapeutic use of her hypnotic
self-revelations.
F. C. S. S.
The Revue de Psychothtrapie for February and March, 1913, contains
an interesting paper by Dr. S. Artault on "
Stigmata and Mimicry."
As the title implies, the author seeks to establish a parallelism between
the production of stigmata, now so frequently recorded in hysterical
subjects, and the capacity of certain animals to change themselves
rapidly to a coloration identical with that of their environment. It
is known that this ability depends on the visual perception of the
environment, and apparently also, in some cases, of the animal's own
body. Dr. Artault describes two interesting cases of stigrnatism which
have come within his own experience, in one of which he was able to
abort the stigma on the left foot by tying a stocking rather tightly
on this leg, while that on the right foot pursued its
" normal
"
course
and became a sero-sanguineous blister. This result would suggest
that the injuries were self-inflicted, a possibility which is not excluded
by the evidence given.
The other case recorded is rather unusual, in that the subject was
not apparently of a particularly religious temperament, though he
had been brought up in an atmosphere of extreme religious devotion.
In his case the stigmata appeared only on the dorsal and palmar
surfaces of each hand, and only as the sequels to attacks of an
illness resembling tonsillitis. If these are to be regarded as genuine
stigmata, related to ideas about crucifixion, it is noteworthy that these
ideas must have been quite subconscious, as it is recorded that the
patient
"
attached no mystical or symbolical idea to the occurrence."
V. J. W.
No. CCCIL-VoL. XVI. OCTOBIR, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Cases, 114
Review, 126
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER $tkt 1913, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
"Some Further Cross-Correspondences
between Scripts
5 '
WILL BE READ BY
Miss HELEN DE G. VERRALL.
N.B. No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
a?id Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1913.
CASES.
Hallucination.
THE following account of a recurrent hallucination was sent
to Mr. Piddington by Mrs. Peake, to whom the percipient,
Miss Olive M. Cruse, verbally related her experience a day or
two after its occurrence. Mrs. Peake, in enclosing the account,
writes :
Jan. 13th, 1913.
Miss Cruse told me of the occurrence as soon as it happened,
and her account was so well observed that I asked her to write it
out, which she did as soon as she had time. She is nineteen years
old, a healthy and athletic girl, one of the best of my village
masque dancers ;
and she has also been trained as a Morris dancer
under the Esperance Club. I have known her from a child, and
she is most truthful and level-headed. ... So far I can get no
rumours or legends about the house where her father, a retired
wheelwright, has lived for many years.
C. M. A. PEAKE.
Miss Cruse's account (from which we omit the address, by
her request) is as follows :
On Friday evening, November 15th, 1912, I retired to bed as
usual about 9 o'clock. I took a reading lamp upstairs and placed
it on the dressing-table, which is under the window and fairly close
to my bed. When ready, I got into bed and put the light out.
Being rather tired, I soon fell asleep, but awoke, as near as I can
judge, in the middle of the night or the very early hours of the
morning. I had no clock in the room, so am not positive of the
time. I turned my head towards the window, when my eyes were
attracted to a white figure hovering near the dressing-table. The
figure was in the form of a baby, and was clothed from head to
foot in a white robe which fitted rather closely. The robe appeared
to be in one piece, part of which fitted closely round the head and
formed a hood. No arms were visible, so the robe went straight
down. I saw no feet, but I had a feeling at the time that the robe
just covered them. As near as I can tell, the figure was about
eighteen inches high. It seemed to me that some invisible hand
was holding it at the back, which caused it to bend slightly forward.
Although appearing so suddenly, I felt too fascinated to be frightened,
OCT., 1913. Cases. 115
and gazed at it until it
disappeared. I tried to sleep, but that was
impossible. Whether through curiosity or not (I cannot tell), but
I felt compelled to look up, and there was the figure in exactly
the same spot as before. I must confess I felt a little uncomfortable,
but far from frightened. It was at this second appearance I noticed
it turn to the window and bow. It disappeared, but came again
the third time. After the third disappearance I did not see it
again. I lay awake for a long time and then fell asleep. Needless
to relate, I awoke next morning feeling rather tired after my disturbed
night's rest. I could in no way account for the figure, unless it was
the moon shining on the lamp's white globe, but the idea did not
appeal to me. I did not say a word to any one until the following
Sunday, when I mentioned quite casually to my friends that I had
a ghost, but they declared it was the moon, so I let the
bject drop. Nothing happened Saturday or Sunday night, but on
onday night the figure appeared again. I will relate it as well
as I can. I went to bed at the usual time, but did not take the
lamp. As before, I soon fell asleep, but awoke in the early hours
of the morning. I stretched my legs, but was seized with cramp
in the left leg just above the knee. The pain was so bad that I
got out of bed and put my foot on a cold rush mat. The cramp
disappeared directly. (I have mentioned this to show that what
followed was no dream.) I got into bed again and had settled down
comfortably when, glancing up, I saw the figure again. It was the
same figure, same clothing, etc., and was in exactly the same place
as I saw it on the previous Friday. I was positive now that it
was not caused by the moon shining on the lamp, for, as I have
already mentioned, I had not taken the lamp upstairs. I cannot
say how long the figure remained, but it seemed a long time to me.
It disappeared, but not very suddenly, for it seemed to float through
the air and then disappear. Guessing from my former experience
t it would return, I watched and I had not long to wait. Now
mes the strange part. Instead of remaining in the same place as
before, it floated to the window and hovered near the white blinds.
It would then return to its former place. I asked in a loud whisper,
" In the name of the Lord what troublest thee
"
? but much to my
disappointment received no answer. The floating was repeated again
and again. Perhaps I was silly, but at last I got so uneasy that
when the figure was near the window I reached across to the
dressing-table and got candle and matches. Of course with a light
the figure entirely vanished. Sleep had gone from me, so having
tha
con
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1913.
a book handy I did some reading. I read two or three pages and
then lay quiet trying to fathom the mystery, but no explanation
presented itself. At last I fell asleep, but awoke next morning with
a vivid recollection of all that had passed. Had I wanted to think
the whole affair a dream I could not, for when I awoke the candle
was still burning, the book beside me, and my head on the bolster.
I may add that I am accustomed to lie flat in bed and seldom use
pillow or bolster. I may mention two or three points, as regards
the figure, which I have omitted. 1st. The features were such
that I cannot find words to explain them, though in my mind I
seem to have a vague idea of the same. 2nd. It is interesting to
note that when the figure was present the robe was so white and
seemed to shine so much in the darkness that the white blinds
appeared quite dark, though they resumed their ordinary whiteness
when the figure disappeared. Perhaps at some future date I shall
receive an explanation of my midnight visitor, if indeed there is
an explanation at all.
OLIVE MARY CRUSE.
The above account is not dated, but in reply to an enquiry,
Miss Cruse states that it was written on ISTov. 21, 1912.
Mr. Piddington, on receiving it, addressed the following
questions to Miss Cruse :
1. Have you ever before had any experience of a similar kind.
If you have, please give details.
2. How was the figure visible to you ? That is to say, was there
naturally enough light in your room to see objects by? or did the
figure appear to be self-illuminated and other objects to be dark
1
?
3. Can you remember when you first told Mrs. Peake about your
vision ?
4. Has any other member of your family or any one else who
may be living or who may have stayed in your house seen a
similar vision ?
5. Do you often suffer from cramp, or was the seizure you
mention exceptional?
6. Can you explain further what you say about the features'?
You say though you can't explain them you seem to have a vague
idea of them. Do you mean that you thought you recognised the
child's features as those of a child you know or have known?
7. Have you since your statement was written seen the figure
again 1 If so, please give details.
OCT., 1913. Cases. 117
8. Have you been at all out of health shortly before or since the
figure appeared to you? By "out of health" I mean anything
from a definite illness to an occasional headache. Were you over-
tired or overworked at the time?
9. Had you, before the first vision happened, been hearing, read-
ing, talking, or thinking of apparitions or ghosts?
10. Do you "visualize" easily? That is to say, when you
think of a thing do you see it clearly, either in your mind's eye
or externally? For instance, if some one were speaking to you, or
if you were thinking, of a bunch of roses or a tea-pot, would you
see the roses or the tea-pot in your mind's eye or, say, upon the
wall ?
11. Did you notice whether any part of the vision was coloured ?
You speak of the extreme whiteness of the robe, but did you
jrve any colour, blue, pink, green, and so on ?
Miss Cruse replied on Jan. 25th, 1913, as follows:
1. I have never seen anything of a similar kind before.
2. The figure was certainly self-illuminated. Only by getting
loroughly accustomed to the darkness could other objects in the
>om be seen. I could see the white blinds but very faintly.
3. I told Mrs. Peake about the vision on the 20th of November,
.912. It was the Wednesday following the two days (Friday and
[onday) when the vision was seen.
4. To my knowledge no person living or staying in the house
seen any vision or anything of its kind before.
5. I do not suffer from cramp. Now and again I get a very
light touch of it, but not nearly so painful as it was on that
>ecial night.
6. The features did not resemble, or even bear a likeness to,
any child I have met. I cannot explain them properly. The
learest explanation I can give is that it was like the thin pinched
of a wooden Dutch doll.
7. I have never seen the vision since writing the account. As a
latter of fact, I have changed my room, and though the room is
occupied I have not heard any sound or word mentioned about the
new occupant seeing the vision.
8. I was certainly not overworked or overtired at the time. I
was having rather an easy time at home. I had spent the summer
in London, and returned home at the end of August, so was having
a long holiday and rest before commencing work again. I do not
remember any illness of any description at that time.
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1913.
9. To my knowledge no mention of ghosts, etc., had been made
in any of my conversations, neither had I read, talked, or thought
about such things.
10. I think I visualize fairly easily. If objects are mentioned, I
see them in my mind's eye rather quickly.
11. No no other part of the vision was coloured.
Subsequently Miss Cruse sent a sketch of her room, which
has a small, high casement window with three leaded lights ;
the high sill is parallel with the top of the looking-glass on
the dressing-table, and the head of the figure (which was in
front of and a little above the table) was on the same level.
On both the nights when the apparition was seen the window
was closed, and plain white calico curtains were drawn across
it. There was no blind. Outside, to the left, is a tree, an
elm (pollard), of which Miss Cruse writes :
"
There are no thick
branches. Only a few slender twigs stretch as far as the
middle division of my window, and these are about four feet
distant from the sill." Moreover it is very improbable that the
effect seen by Miss Cruse could have been produced by the
moon shining through the branches, because the moon, which
reached its first quarter on November 16th, 1912, set at 9.23
p.m. on November 15th, 1912, and just after midnight on
November 19th, 1912.
A CASE OF TELEPATHIC HALLUCINATION.
BY DR. EMIL MATTIESEN.
L. 1197.
THE following account of a vision containing veridical details
was given to me orally on Monday, May 5th, 1913, by Mr.
Joseph Zohrer, a shoemaker, living and keeping a shop at
46 Warschauer Str., Berlin, 0., and written down by me
from his dictation. In translating it into English four hours
later, I have altered nothing except introducing a few gram-
matical changes, transposing one or two sentences, and adding,
in square brackets, a few explanatory notes, based on personal
knowledge. I feel absolute assurance with regard to Mr.
Zohrer's personal veracity and endeavour to keep as close as
possible to facts. As to the question, how far his recollection
of minute details be correct, it will be seen hardly to touch
the evidential value of the case.
OCT., 1913. Cases. 119
Mr. Zohrer's account ran as follows:
" I have a sister, [Mrs. Agnes Sommer,] living in [Eggenberg near]
Graz, Styria, who is there carrying on a prospering retail trade in
victuals. Before last spring three quarters of a year had passed
without any letters being exchanged between us, and I had no
reason whatever to suspect her to be straitened for money. On
March 16th, 1912, when I was awakened at 7 a.m. by the crying
of my child, I called out to my wife in the kitchen to come in and
quieten the boy. Being wide awake, I was much astonished when,
looking at the door, [right at the foot of the bed, the kitchen-door
being in the same direction across a passage,] I half heard and saw
it
open and perceived a man entering in the spirit [sic], fair-haired,
looking about 28 years of age, in Sunday dress, but with no coat
on, without hat, wearing a white shirt with knitted sleeves, his hair
:hed high. He was accompanied by three dark figures. And the
tir-haired one came to me and told me to prepare for a highly
)iritual visitor. Then one of the dark figures came to me and
sked me to tell him what it was that was coming, for which the
dr-haired one had prepared me. Then I looked at the clock [which
mngs above the foot of the bed] which I did several times during
what succeeded and saw that 3 minutes had passed [since 7 a.m.].
furious as to what might be coming I was musing to myself when,
suddenly, the ceiling seemed to open above me and there appeared
a female being, looking like an angel, and about 18 years old, in a
great clarity, dressed in a garment with folds, girdled and hanging
down, and shining in changing hues, like a crystal. The beauty of
this being was such, that I felt enraptured. She spoke to me at
some length about my sister, telling me to help her, and other
things which I noticed, but could not remember, owing to my sur-
prise and rapture, and after a long talk the figure vanished. While
was greatly regretting that I could not remember it all, the fair-
laired one approached me again and told me to prepare once more
for another such apparition. When at that moment I again looked
it the clock, it showed 6 minutes past 7, and I was still meditating
rhat might be in store for me, when I again observed the same
ling coming from the ceiling. It was a figure similar to the first
one, but apparently older, about 24 years of age, which repeated
the whole of the previous account, telling me : that my sister was
need, and had prayed God fervently for help; [this may be an
interpolation see note at end,] that it was my duty to help her,
for she had done good to me more than once; that my sister's
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1913.
daughter was going to be confirmed and great joy prevailed on that
account. And a voice came, I don't know whence, telling me to
send 60 Kronen [Austrian crowns; about 2 10s.]. Then the
figure took leave in greatest love. When I looked after her, I was
able to see through two doors, and saw her walking into the kitchen,
where my wife was standing at the fire, and then she disappeared.
Then I saw the fair-haired young man leaving, and he, too, walked
through two doors and I could see through them. My two journey-
men, who live in the back-room, were just drinking their coffee, and
I could see it. Then this spiritual being busied himself with one of
the journeymen, and disappeared, and when I looked around, the
other figures too had vanished, without saying anything. I got up
and told my wife what had happened very minutely, and told her
that 60 Kr. must be sent off at once, as my sister was in very great
need ;
and that this was going to be confirmed, though she [Mrs.
Zohrer] thought it incredible. I did not find time that day to send
off the money, and the next day [see, however, note at end of
case] I
" heard
"
a monition, to despatch it at once. Then my
wife went to the Post-Office and sent off 60 Kr.
After some days the reply came on a post-card, which exactly
confirmed everything: "Dear Brother, The money you sent me, was
a great divine miracle. I was in great need and have prayed God
fervently for help. Then I was told that help would come, where-
upon I thanked God. But of you I had no thought."
When I travelled to Graz, shortly before Easter, 1913, and came
to talk about this money-sending business [with my sister],
still
further confirmation was obtained.
[What follows agrees in all essentials with Mrs. Sommer's account (see
below) and is therefoi'e omitted here.]
Mr. Zohrer, after finishing his tale, showed me the postal
receipt for the money sent (money being transmitted in Germany
not by P.O., but by being paid in cash at the Post-Office, a
receipt being handed to the sender). The usual formulary in
red print was filled up with ink as follows :
[Sum :]
5 1 M[arks]
5 Pf[ennigs]
= 6 Kr. [Addressee:] Agnes Sommer. [Destina-
tion:] Graz, Steiermark. [Date:] 19, Marz, 1912.
Mrs. Zohrer, who impressed me as a most sensible woman,
and quite without the
"
spiritual exaltation
"
of her husband,
orally confirmed to me his having told her of the vision imme-
diately after its occurrence. I have not thought it worth while
OCT., 1913. Cases. 121
to get her written statement, supposing her recollection of details
to have been tinged in the meantime by talking the case over
with her husband. Her recollection of the main points, however,
is quite clear.
Mr. Zohrer has been unable, in spite of repeated careful
searching, to find the post-card above-mentioned ;
but he gave
me the names and addresses of three persons, who had, he said,
seen and read it. To one of these people, Mrs. Pintsch, I did
not apply, because she lives in the same house with Mr. Z., and
I supposed her recollection to have lost its independence through
talking the matter over with Mr. Z. The second, Mrs. Schon-
beck, wrote to me, on May 27th, that Mr. Z. had intended to
show her the card in question, but had not done so : that she
knew, however, Mr. Z.
"
as a person of the greatest trustworthi-
ness." The third, Mr. Zingelmann, living at some distance from
Mr. Zohrer, replied to my enquiry as follows :
June Is/, 1913.
... At that time, while Mr. Zohrer was under my treatment,
1
he
told me too that he had seen an apparition (he is clairvoyant at times),
which told him that his sister was in straitened circumstances and
that he ought to do his duty by her ;
that he had told his wife of it,
who asked him in reply to send the 60 Kr. [mentioned in the vision] to-
his sister, as he was now able to do it. This Mrs. Zohrer, too, told me
at that time. About 8 days later Mr. Zohrer showed me a post-card
with a Bavarian [mistake for Austrian] stamp, bearing a correspond-
ing post-mark, and containing about what follows: "Dear Brother,
That I would get money I knew, but from whom, I did not know ;
of
you 1 should have thought least of all. I was straitened for money,
just for this sum of 60 Kr., and have repeatedly addressed myself on
my knees to my Heavenly Father; the Lord has always heard my
prayer, and so I knew that I would get money." This interested me
greatly, after the account I had received which was fully confirmed
by the post-card. . . .
But apart from these corroborations, Mr. Zohrer gave me a
letter from his sister, with the postmark of July 19th, 1912, in
which the following occurs :
Dear Brother, Your letter [apparently a letter relating Mr. Zohrer's
part in the affair] has caused me great joy. The whole thing was
1
Mr. Zingelmann is a "magnetic healer."
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1913.
guided by God. I prayed for help on the 2nd day before March 19th
[Mr. Zohrer's "
name-day "].
I [had] to pay a big account of GO Kr.
I had no thought that you should give [it]
me. But on the eve of
your name-day, under the starry sky, I prayed to the Father for bliss
for you and that you should be conscious of my having prayed, and
feel the bliss. . . .
1 wrote, on the day of my interview with Mr. Zohrer, to his
sister in Graz, asking for an account of her part in the case, and
putting some questions likely to elicit some normal explanation
of Mr. Zohrer's acquiring knowledge of her embarrassment. Her
reply, dated, on the envelope, Graz, May 23rd, reached me on
May 25th, 1913. It is in very bad spelling and grammar
throughout (this is almost entirely lost in the translation), but
reveals a person of an intensely religious cast of mind (including
a
"
spiritualistic
"
strain), and inspires entire confidence in the
bona fides of the writer. It reads as follows :
BODENFELD SlRASSE, No. 20, EGGENBERG.
. . . First of all I ask your pardon for not answering [your letter]
sooner. ... In reply to your questions : I have not written to my brother
Joseph in Berlin for about 9 or 12 months [before March 19th, 1912].
My need already existed since 1909. 1
I was deep in debt in my
business, so that I had no more credit anywhere; thus, if I did not
pay an account within 30 days I should get nothing more. Already
in 1910 I fervently prayed my God for help, when it was [officially]
intended to close my shop. I needed a 1000 Kr. . . .
2
And two
years later [i.e.
in 1912], I was in need again. And thus it happened
that I prayed again, about March 18th. I cannot exactly remember
the date, it may be March 17th or 18th. A female customer came
into [my] shop for wheat-flour; I had none; as I owed 63 Kr., I could
not procure any before paying that [debt]. When the customer had
X
I had asked Mrs. Sommer how long, before March, 1912, her embarrassment
had been in existence, considering, in my mind, the possibility of her brother
being normally aware of her chronic need. Mrs. Sommer appears not to have
guessed my suspicion. She seems to refer to certain special cases of acute
want, and it remains possible to think that her brother supposed her business
to be prospering on the whole, as, indeed, he expressed himself in his account.
In view of the exact agreement between the sum needed and the sum despatched,
the question of chance may thus seem to be eliminated. Note by Dr. Mattiesen.
2
Here and in a subsequent letter Mrs. Sommer relates how she obtained 1000
Kronen from an uncle. At his particular request she did not mention his giving
her the money to any other members of the family.
i:is. Cases. 123
left the shop, a strong thought, or a low voice, came to me :
" Go
to the Father." I ran into my bedroom, knelt down and prayed
from my heart. . . . And it came to me like an audible thought or a
low mild voice :
"My child, all your cares I have taken upon myself;
you will get 60 Kr." . . .
I went from my bedroom into the shop again ;
one Mrs. Maria Holz-
meier came and complained that she had nothing wherewith to prepare
a meal for her five children. I said :
"
. . . Just listen ;
I asked my
Father for 60 Kr. He has already promised [them] to me, and within
two days I shall get them from Him." And two days after that in
the morning the money-letter-carrier, Mr. Unger, came. When he
opened the door, I called out to him :
"
Well, Mr. Unger, here you
are with my 60 Kr." He said :
" How do you know from where you
are getting 60 Kr. 1
"
I said :
"
From my Heavenly Father." He said :
41
Have you your Heavenly Father in Berlin ?
"
He handed me 60 Kr.
And at that time, when the postman came, Mrs. Holzmeier . . . was
present again, as well as Mrs. Lutteri. ... I [had] never complained
[of my need] to my brother in Berlin, nor to my other relations. . . .
And it was on March 18th, 1912, when I thought: I shall write to
my poor brother for his name-day [this taking in Austria the place
of the birth-day]. All day I found no time to write more than half
a letter, and that, too, I lost in the evening.
[There follows an account of how Frau Sommer prayed that her
brother might "feel the bliss" (see above, p. 122).]
Yours most respectfully,
AGNES SOMMER.
Mrs. Lutteri, when applied to, wrote as follows from Graz
on May 29th:
In compliance with your wish I write down for you what I
remember in connection with Mrs. Sommer. Yes, I was present
when the money-letter-carrier called. Mrs. Sommer had just been
telling me with sighs that she wanted money, viz. 64 Kr., for an
urgent payment, but, as she added, "I have prayed to the Father
and He is going to help me," meaning by Father, of course, God.
She was very joyfully surprised when the money came, and said it
was money she had no longer counted on and hoped for. 1
What
she said to the postman I no longer recollect verbatim, but it
prob-
ably was in the same sense, and she was glad and thankful like a
child. The whole thing I took for an answer to a prayer. I have
1
This seems to be a mistake. Note by Dr. Alattiesen.
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1913.
not seen Mrs. Sommer for a long time, since she moved away from
here [to Eggenberg, near Graz]. . . .
I wrote to Mrs. Holzmeier, too, and received the following
reply, dated Graz, June 4th, 1913 :
Yes, I can swear that the thing . . .
happened thus : Mrs. Sommer
was in great pecuniary embarrassment, having given too much credit
in her business, and so she had been intending for a long while to
write to her brother and to ask him for money. But being always
diverted by her business or some events in her family, she did not
do it, and the day after [sic]
she had got to have the money. And
it was a beautiful moonlit night when she accompanied me and prayed
under the sky that the Father might hear her, and with great con-
fidence she then told [me] : "You will see, to-morrow I get the money
I want." Next day, in the forenoon, I again went into Mrs. Sommer's
shop. When the postman had come, Mrs. Sommer said :
" You're
already bringing me my money." Whereupon the postman said :
"
So you know it
already ? . . ." Then only Mrs. Sommer wrote to her
brother about her embarrassment and the hearing of her prayer, and
her brother was not a little astonished and described to her his
experience. ... I can assure you that I have not seen Mrs. Sommer
for a long time, and that the occurrence is very fresh in my
memory. . . .
Mr. Zohrer having told me that Mrs. Holzmeier is unable
to write (which, perhaps, in Austria does not quite mean what
it would mean in England), this letter, I suppose, has been
dictated by her. As it is, it is in poor grammar, but correctly
spelt. Whether certain errors of fact which it contains are
due to its coming through the hand of a third person, I
cannot tell. Excepting some irrelevant details, Mrs. Sommer's
letter appears to be in fair accord with her brother's statement.
There seems, however, to remain some difficulty with regard to
dates, if a "
telepathic
"
explanation of the occurrence is, on
a priori grounds, assumed as the most likely one. In her
earliest written account obtainable, i.e. her letter of July 19th,
1912, Mrs. Sommer fixes her prayer for help on to "the
second day before March 19th." This latter date being St.
Joseph's day, and thus the name-day of her brother, it ought
to have formed an easy starting-point in her mind for fixing
the event in her recollection. For the same reason her second
OCT., 1913. Cases. 125
prayer (for a blessing on her brother) might be supposed to
have been correctly fixed by her on to "the eve" of the
name-day, though a letter (or card) posted late on March 18th
could not have reached her brother on the next day, a fast
train travelling at least twenty-four hours between Graz and
Berlin. If, then, a
"
telepathic
"
connection between this prayer
"
for a blessing
"
and Mr. Zohrer's rapturous vision be assumed,
the vision cannot have happened, as he first told me, on
March 16th. On the other hand, if it happened, as Mrs.
Sommer seems to think, on the morning of March 19th, her
brother cannot have allowed a whole day or more to elapse
before obeying the order (a fact much easier to remember than
an abstract date), for this he did, on the showing of the postal
jceipt, on March 19th. If, then, his recollection of his original
leglect of the order is thought to be correct, Mrs. Sommer's
second prayer either loses any claim to a supernormal efficiency,
>r else would have to be fixed on to March 17th (if not
6th), i.e. the probable day of her first prayer, on which day,
for a priori reasons, she might well be supposed to have
mtinued in an excited
"
prayerful
"
mood and a telepathic
turgor," if I may say so. And it might be supposed to
jak in favour of this assumption that she must have known
it the 17th was the day for her to write to her brother, if
she intended to reach him on his name-day. The construction
put upon the foregoing accounts would, then, come to this :
that both prayers acted as telepathic stimuli on March
17th, 1912, that they got translated into a sensual irn-
>ression by Mr. Zohrer on his awakening early next morning,
id that the money was despatched on the day after the
vision.
There might, however, appear to be another way out of
lese difficulties, if the
"
telepathic
"
explanation based on
lese prayers a scheme too hastily, perhaps, adopted at times
by adepts in Psychical Eesearch be withheld in favour of
)me other hypothesis of a supernormal kind, whatever its
details might be. As a matter of fact, Mr. Zohrer is not
inclined at all to allow so large an error with regard to the
ite of the vision in his first statement, as the above explana-
tion would ask us to suppose. On being told by me of the
iifficulties just explained, and asked once more to think the
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1913.
matter over carefully with his wife, he wrote to ine, on
May 30th, as follows:
... As to the apparition, we can remember that I saw it on [a]
Friday, and consequently on March 15th [March 15th, in 1912, was
a Friday]. The vision, then, happened a few days before my sister's
prayer for help, and you think that my help cannot [then] be a
consequence of her prayer. But in my view the thing is very
simple, for God knows in advance, not for days or years, but for
eternity, what will happen to us people, and thus God has known a
few days in advance that my sister would get in need and that
she would ask for His help, and thereupon the matter was devised
in advance. . . .
Readers may not be inclined to go quite as far as Mr.
Zohrer here does, even if they drop the hypothesis, not only
of the "prayer" acting causally in this case, but also which
is another thing of Mrs. Sommer acting at all telepathically
on her brother.
1
Yet the case is, to my mind, apt to make
us feel how vague and, at the same time, how "
dogmatical
"
our ideas become as soon as the boundary of what is known
of normal means of communication between the living is over-
stepped. For the rest, in estimating the non-evidential details
of Mr. Zohrer's vision, it must be kept in view, not only that
he, obviously, is a very religious person (he is born a Catholic,
though not now attached to his Church and its priests) ;
but
also that, as he tells me, he sees
"
figures
"
rather frequently,
mostly dark and of a
"
hellish
"
character half man and half
beast, more rarely of angels ;
and that he calls himself a
"
hearing
"
medium. His sister, too, he says, by the way, is a
"
medium," i.e. she
"
sees
"
and "
hears
"
things, and at times
speaks in a trance.
REVIEW.
The Belief in Personal Immortality. By E. S. P. HAYNES. (Watts & Co.,
London, 1913. 156 pp. Price 9d. net.)
IT is not to a 9d. book written for the Rationalist Press Association
that one would naturally look for matters of interest to Psychical
Research. Nor, as a fact, is there much to be gleaned from the great
bulk of Mr. Haynes' work, which is simply dialectical and scientifically
unprofitable, being composed of very sketchy and not very accurate
1
Even if Mr. Zohrer's vision preceded Mrs. Sommer's prayer, it did not
precede her anxiety and desire for money, and we may still suppose, therefore,
that the vision was due to a telepathic impression received from her. ED.
OCT., 1913. Review. 127
history, and (highly selected) bad arguments for immortality, confuted by
almost equally bad arguments against it, both being of the familiar sort
which so cunningly keep the belief in a state of semi-animation while
baffling the desire for real knowledge. Mr. Haynes, in short, is a
partisan, and not a scientific inquirer. But he is so candid, and ex-
presses his bias so honestly, that it is easy to discount it. He confesses,
for example, that " the alleged consolations of religion are merely an
irritant
"
(p. 5), and that he would prefer annihilation to a succession
of lives (p. 64), and that psychical experiences are to him "rather
repulsive
"
(p. 92) ;
but he also calls the S.P.R. " the one remaining
refuge for those who wish to believe in personal immortality," and
admits that though "its proceedings may sometimes be rather tiresome
to the outsider . . .
they are marked by the most studious impartiality
and intellectual honesty
"
(p. 91). It does not, indeed, seem quite con-
sistent to hold both that "apart from some belief in Christianity or
theism, I fail to see that there can be any strong presumption for
personal immortality" (p. 71), and (p. 109) that "those who really
want to be convinced resort to the spiritualist rather than the priest,
d thereby get a *
better run for their money
' "
;
but his chapter on
Psychical Research is thoroughly well meaning, even though his
speculations are neither profound nor original. Unfortunately it is
vitiated by the uncritical willingness, now so common in our younger
critics, to accept eagerly, and on far from cogent evidence, whatever
phenomena they think can be used to play off against those they do not
wish to believe. Mr. Haynes, also, is quite ready to swallow telepathy,
the subliminal consciousness, and the hypnotization of sitters by
mediums (p. 106) without inquiring whether the evidence renders these
agencies reasonably certain, or whether they yield more than verbal
explanations, and still more, whether an order of nature expanded by
their admission would be really congruous with the preconceptions of
materialism.
What is, however, of far greater interest is the revelation that Mr.
Haynes is himself something of a psychic, and has had experiences
which would, no doubt, have impressed him deeply if his bias had
chanced to be the other way. He tells us (p. 103) that on one occasion
e was walking at night past
" a new red-brick public-house throwing a
strong light on to a side road." He thought he saw "a crowd of men
nding outside in the light, and dressed in early 19th century clothes."
After walking on twenty or thirty yards it struck him that "
the clothes
were not those of the present day," and when he returned to the public-
house to make inquiries, he found no one, and the landlord entirely
denied having had any customers. This may, of course, have been, as
he thinks, a case of hallucination (or, more probably, illusion) ;
but his
veridical dream of the suicide of a college friend, which is told on
.
99-102, is much more important. He "
woke up three or four times
solutely terrified by a dream in which I saw a person whom I could
not identify, but whom, for some reason, I thought to be a male con-
temporary of my own, lying down in a dim light which enabled me to
see nothing but the glint of a revolver barrel and part of a white face."
Three days later he learnt that his friend had shot himself in a hotel at
chf
he
=
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT., 1913.
Dijon about three hours before his dream. Rather more than a year
litter he went to the hotel, where the tragedy was '
reconstructed
'
for
him by the waiter ;
"
and, as the waiter turned out the light, I saw what
I instantly recognised to be the same light that I had seen in my
dream. There was a lamp in the street immediately outside the room,
from which came just enough light for me to have been able to see what
I did." He also mentions that for some nights after his friend's death
(i.e. presumably after it was known to him, not after the actual occur-
rence), he "was accustomed to wake and see him standing by the
fireplace in my bedroom . . .
smoking a cigarette, in a shiny blue over-
coat and a bowler hat." No doubt the ghost's style of dress may have
jarred upon a fastidious taste, but Mr. Haynes's method of discouraging
this apparition
" to keep Whitaker's Almanack by my chair, and read
all the Civil Service salaries until I could look up again and see that
the apparition was no longer there
"
was surely most unkind.
Evidently Mr. Haynes "intensely disliked the experience" (p. 99),
and unfortunately he did not record it at the time, although he kept a
diary. Nor did he "
lay it before the S.P.R., since the suicide involved
was carefully concealed by the family of the deceased, and I thought
the facts might lead to his identity being known." How vain this motive
was may be gathered from the fact that I did at once identify the case
from his account. It was widely known in Oxford at the time, though,
of course, minus Mr. Haynes's experience. In short, Mr. Haynes acted
with the usual uncultivated unkindness and scientific heedlessness of the
ordinary ghost-seer, which are still such obstacles in the path of psychical
research.
Lastly, I may permit myself a few comments on Mr. Haynes's treat-
ment of my own discussions of the question of immortality, not so much
because I wish to ventilate my own grievances (which are relatively
slight) as because I can thereby illustrate his general attitude. To the
systematic discussion of the question in ch. xi. of Riddles of the Sphinx
he makes no allusion, though it is much more coherent than the views
of many writers he does argue against. From ch. xvii.-xix. of Humanism
he makes a number of quotations, though he puts them in such a con-
text that they are usually misleading, and never reveal the real nature
of the argument. But my Report on the Questionnaire of the American
Branch is said to have "abundantly [!] shown that most men do not
want to know about a future life" (p. 110), and subsequently (p. 143)
to have "
clearly shown "
that doctrines of a future life
" have no real
interest for most men and women." I must protest that this was neither
what I said nor what I meant, nor what I imagined myself to have shown,
in my very tentative discussion of my very fragmentary data. When
one is painfully conscious of having been an imprudent 'prospector,'
who has just scratched the surface of a lode of knowledge which may
extend into the depths of being, it is most humiliating to be praised for
having
'
abundantly shown 5
what only the labour of generations can
possibly demonstrate ! And all that Mr. Haynes has shown is that it
is as vain to expect help in a scientific research from the dialectics of
Rationalism as from the dogmas of Theology.
F. C. S. SCHILLER.
No. CCCIII.-VoL. XVI. NOVEMBER, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CONTKNTM.
PAGE
.\\-\v Members and Associates, 130
Meeting of the Council, 131
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, 132
Extracts from Sir Oliver Lodge's Presidential Address on Continuity to the Uritioh
Association, 132
NOTICE OF MEETING.
Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDAY, DECEMBER \\th, 1913, at 3.45 p.m.
WHEN THE FOLLOWING PAPERS WILL BE READ :
(i)
" A Telepathic Impression of the
Volturno Disaster,"
By MRS. CLAUDE ASKEW.
(2)
" Some Auto-suggested Visions as
illustrating Dream-formation,"
By DR. V. J. WOOLLEY.
N.B. No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1913.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Fullerton, Colonel J. D., Artillery Mansions, Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Malone, Cecil L'Estrange, R.N., 30 Eccleston Street, London, S.W.
Permain, William J., 146 East Dulwich Grove, London, S.E.
Rix, The Rev. A. H., St. Mary's Vicarage, Keighley, Yorkshire.
Taylor, Mrs. Charles Hewlett, 31 Blenheim Park Road, South
Croydon, Surrey.
BASDEN, Miss ISABEL, 21 The Drive, Hove, Sussex.
BIBESCO, PRINCE ANTOINE, 20 Rue Vineuse, Paris, France.
BURRARD, MRS. CHARLES, c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54 Parlia-
ment Street, London, S.W.
CRAGGS, LADY, 30 Bramham Gardens, London, S.W.
DAVIS, ALBERT E., F.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 56 Rodney Street, Liverpool.
DE JONG, DR. K. H. E., Obrechtstraat 343, The Hague.
DOBIE, D. JAMIESON, 46 Hulne Avenue, Tynemouth.
DRIESCH, PROFESSOR HANS, Ph.D., LL.D., 52 Uferstrasse, Heidel-
berg, Germany.
GAGE, LYMAN J., Point Loma, Cal., U.S.A.
GIRAULT, A. ARSENE, Nelson, Queensland, Australia.
GOEDHART, P., Laan van Meerdervoort 135, The Hague,
HEANEY, Miss A. E., 4 Cranbourne Avenue, Park Road, Claughton,
Birkenhead.
HERRIOT, Miss E. R, 2 Sunningdale Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
HESELTINE, MRS., 19 Launceston Place, Kensington, London, W.
HOGENRAAD, MRS. CLIO, Cornelis Jolstraat 93a, Scheveningen
Holland.
HOGGAN, DR. FRANCES, Hillview, Squire's Lane, Finchley, London, N"
HUSSAIN, DR. C. M., c/o Dr. G. Stanculeanu, Hospital Coltea,
Bucharest, Roumania.
JONES, D. MARINUS, M.D., Ardmay, Woburn Place, London, W.C.
KENNION, T. ALFRED, 3a, Calle San Augustin 78, Mexico, D.F.
KNIGHT, MRS. J. BAILLIE, Thornhurst, Silverdale Road, Burgess
Hill, Sussex.
LAMBERT, G. W., 1 Palmer Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
LANGWORTHY, MAJOR G., Santa Clara, Torremolinos, Malaga, Spain.
Nov., 1913. New Members and As8ocid ;
l-'il
Miss (I. HYDE, 16 Montpelicr Square, London, \\ .
LK WIN STEIN, A., 9 Cleveleya Road, I'pper Clapton, London, N.K.
LONG, DR. CONSTAM K, -J
Hurley Pl:u , London, W.
MUIR-MACKENZIE, LADY, *2'J
Draycott Place, London, S.\V.
MrssuN, .Miss A. -I., Fair View West, Rainhill, Lancashire.
PITT, MRS. Fox, Robin Hood Farm, Kingston Vale, Putney, Lon-
don, S.W.
POOLEY, H. F., Scotter, Well Walk, Hampstead, London, N.W.
PRAUSNITZ, DR. PAUL H., Liehrstrasse 1, Laubegast, Dresden.
Ross, SAMUEL, 67 Willis Street, New Bedford, Mass., U.S.A.
SELENKA, FRAU, Leopold strasse 7, Munich, Bavaria.
SIMONS, L., 230 Overtoom, Amsterdam.
SIMPSON, Miss PRICE, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
SMITH, JAMES HOYLE, Spring Bank, Eccles, Lancashire.
TYRWHITT, THE REV. H. M., 19 The Glebe, Blackheath, London, S.E.
WALKER, THE REV. DAVID, The Vicarage, Darlington.
\\AYMOUTH, Miss ESTHER, 3 Church Road, Parkhill Road, Hamp-
stead, London, N.W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
'HE 124th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
[uare, London, W., on Wednesday, November 5th, 1913, at
6 p.m.; MR. H. ARTHUR SMITH in the chair. There were
Iso present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, The Right Hon. G. W.
[four, Sir William F. Barrett,' The Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr.
Irnest N. Bennett, Sir William Crookes, The Hon. Everard
Gliding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mrs.
[enry Sidgwick, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs. A. W. Verrall,
and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Research
Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Five new Members and thirty-eight new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for July, August and September, and
October, 1913, were presented and taken as read.
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1913.
PEIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 47th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Wednesday, November 5th, 1913, at
4 p.m. ;
MR. H. ARTHUR SMITH in the chair.
Miss H. DE G. VERRALL read a paper on "
Some Further
Cross-Correspondences between Scripts," which will, it is hoped,
be published later in the Proceedings.
EXTRACTS FROM SIR OLIVER LODGE'S
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
TO THE
BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT
OF SCIENCE,
AT ITS MEF;TING IN BIRMINGHAM IN SEPTEMBER, 1913.
[The following extracts from his Presidential Address, which had the title
CONTINUITY, are printed here by Sir Oliver Lodge's permission. ED.]
WHAT, in the main, is the characteristic of the promising though
perturbing period in which we live ? Different persons would give
different answers, but the answer I venture to give is Rapid pro-
gress, combined with fundamental scepticism. Let me hasten to
explain that I do not mean the well-worn and almost antique
theme of Theological scepticism : that controversy is practically
in abeyance just now.
To illustrate the nature of the fundamental scientific or philo-
sophic controversies to which I do refer, I may cite the kind of
dominating controversies now extant, employing as far as possible
only a single word in each case so as to emphasise the necessary
brevity and insufficiency of the reference.
In Physiology the conflict ranges round Vitalism.
In Chemistry the debate concerns Atomic structure.
In Biology the dispute is on the laws of Inheritance.
In the vast group of Mathematical and Physical Sciences
present-day scepticism concerns what, if I had to
express it in one word, I should call Continuity.
Nov., 1913. Sir Oliver Lodge's Presidential Address. 133
Still more fundamental and deep-rooted than any of these
sectional debates, however, a critical examination of scientific
foundations generally is going on ;
and a kind of philosophic
scepticism is in the ascendant, resulting in a mistrust of purely
intellectual processes and in a recognition of the limited scope
of science.
For science is undoubtedly an affair of the intellect, it examines
everything in the cold light of reason ;
and that is its strength.
It is a commonplace to say that science must have no likes or
dislikes, must aim only at truth ;
or as Bertrand Russell well
puts it :
'The kernel of the scientific outlook is the refusal to
regard our own desires, tastes, and interests as affording
I
a key to the understanding of the world.'
This exclusive single-eyed attitude of science is its strength ;
but, if pressed beyond the positive region of usefulness into a field
of dogmatic negation and philosophising, it becomes also its weak-
ness. For the nature of man is a large thing, and intellect is
only a part of it : a recent part, too, which therefore necessarily,
though not consciously, suffers from some of the defects of newness
and crudity, and should refrain from imagining itself the whole
perhaps it is not even the best part of human nature. Emotion
and Intuition and Instinct are immensely older than science, and
in a comprehensive survey of existence they cannot be ignored.
Scientific men may rightly neglect them, in order to do their
proper work, but philosophers cannot. So Philosophers have
begun to question some of the larger generalisations of science,
and to ask whether, in the effort to be universal and comprehensive,
we have not extended our laboratory inductions too far.
Not by philosophers only, but by scientific men also, ancient
postulates are being pulled up by the roots. Physicists and
Mathematicians are beginning to consider whether the long-
mown and well-established laws of mechanics hold true every-
r
here and always, or whether the Newtonian scheme must be
splaced by something more modern, something to which Newton's
laws of motion are but an approximation.
Even the laws of Geometry have been overhauled, and Euclidean
reometry is seen to be but a special case of more fundamental
generalisations. How far they apply to existing space, and how
ir Time is a reality or an illusion, and whether it can in any
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1913.
sense depend on the motion or the position of an observer ;
all
these things in some form or other are discussed.
The Conservation of Matter also, that mainmast of nineteenth
century chemistry, and the existence of the Ether of Space, that
sheet-anchor of nineteenth century physics, do they not some-
times seem to be going by the board ?
If we had to summarise the main trend of physical controversy
at present, I feel inclined to urge that it
largely turns on the
question as to which way ultimate victory lies in the fight between
Continuity and Discontinuity.
On the surface of nature at first we see discontinuity ; objects
detached and countable. Then we realise the air and other media,
and so emphasise continuity and flowing quantities. Then we detect
atoms and numerical properties, and discontinuity once more makes
its appearance. Then we invent the ether and are impressed with
continuity again. But this is not likely to be the end ;
and what
the ultimate end will be, or whether there is an ultimate end, is a
question difficult to answer.
The modern tendency is to emphasise the discontinuous or
atomic character of everything. Matter has long been atomic,
in the same sense as Anthropology is atomic; the unit of
matter is the atom, as the unit of humanity is the individual.
Whether men or women or children they can be counted as
so many
'
souls.' And atoms of matter can be counted too.
Certainly, however, there is an illusion of continuity. We
recognise it in the case of water. It appears to be a con-
tinuous medium, and yet it is certainly molecular. It is
made continuous again, in a sense, by the ether postulated
in its pores ;
for the ether is essentially continuous.
Electricity itself i.e. electric charge strangely enough has
proved itself to be atomic. There is a natural unit of electric
charge, as suspected by Earaday and Maxwell and named by
Johnstone Stoney. Some of the electron's visible effects were
studied by Crookes in a vacuum ;
and its weighing and
measuring by J. J. Thomson were announced to the British
Association meeting at Dover in 1899 a striking prelude to
the twentieth century.
Biology may be said to be becoming atomic. It has long
had natural units in the shape of cells and nuclei, and some
discontinuity represented by body-boundaries and cell-walls ;
\..v., 1913. Sir Oliver Lodge's Presidential A<l<lre88. 135
but now, in its laws of heredity as studied by Mendel,
number and discontinuity are strikingly apparent among the
reproductive cells, and the varieties of offspring admit of
numerical specification and prediction to a surprising extent ;
while modification by continuous variation, which seemed to
be of the essence of Darwinism, gives place to, or at least is
accompanied by, mutation, with finite and considerable and in
appearance discontinuous change.
Yet undoubtedly Continuity is the backbone of evolution,
as taught by all biologists no artificial boundaries or demar-
cations between species a continuous chain of heredity from far
below the amoeba up to man. Actual continuity of undying
germ-plasm, running through all generations, is taught likewise ;
though a strange discontinuity between this persistent element
and its successive accessory body-plasms a discontinuity which
would convert individual organisms into mere temporary
accretions or excretions, with no power of influencing or
conveying experience to their generating cells is advocated by
>ne school.
And not only these fairly accepted results are prominent,
but some more difficult and unexpected theses in the same
lirection are being propounded, and the atomic character of
Energy is advocated. How far can the analogy of granular,
corpuscular, countable, atomic, or discontinuous things be
pressed ? There are those who think it can be pressed very
far. But to avoid misunderstanding let me state, for what
it may be worth, that I myself am an upholder of ultimate
Continuity, and a fervent believer in the Ether of Space.
The Ether is the universal connecting medium which binds
the universe together, and makes it a coherent whole instead
of a chaotic collection of independent isolated fragments. It
is the vehicle of transmission of all manner of force, from
gravitation down to cohesion and chemical affinity ;
it is
therefore the storehouse of potential energy.
Matter moves, but Ether is strained.
What we call elasticity of matter is only the result of an
alteration of configuration due to movement and readjustment
of particles, but all the strain and stress are in the ether.
The ether itself does not move, that is to say it does not
move in the sense of locomotion, though it is probably in
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1913.
a violent state of rotational or turbulent motion in its smallest
parts ;
and to that motion its exceeding rigidity is due.
Matter in motion, Ether under strain, constitute the funda-
mental concrete things we have to do with in physics. The
first pair represent kinetic energy, the second potential energy ;
and all the activities of the material universe are represented
by alternations from one of these forms to the other.
If the
"
Principle of Eelativity
"
in an extreme sense estab-
lishes itself, it seems as if even Time would become discontinuous
and be supplied in atoms, as money is doled out in pence or
centimes instead of continuously ;
in which case our customary
existence will turn out to be no more really continuous than
the events on a kinematograph screen, while that great agent
of continuity, the Ether of Space, will be relegated to the
museum of historical curiosities.
Now in all the debatable matters, of which I have indicated
possibilities, I want to urge a conservative attitude. I accept
the new experimental results on which some of these theories
such as the Principle of Eelativity are based, and am pro-
foundly interested in them, but I do not feel that they are
so revolutionary as their propounders think. I see a way to
retain the old and yet embrace the new, and I urge moderation
in the uprooting and removal of landmarks.
The fact is we are living in an epoch of some very com-
prehensive generalisations. The physical discovery of the
twentieth century, so far, is the Electrical Theory of Matter.
This is the great new theory of our time ;
it was referred
to, in its philosophical aspect, by Mr. Balfour in his Presidential
Address at Cambridge in 1904. We are too near it to be
able to contemplate it properly ;
it has still to establish itself
and to develop in detail, but I anticipate that in some form
or other it will prove true.
The theory is bound to have curious consequences ;
and
already it has contributed to some of the uprooting and un-
certainty that I speak of. For, if it be true, every material
interaction will be electrical, i.e., etherial : and hence arises
our difficulty. Every kind of force is transmitted by the
ether, and hence, so long as all our apparatus is travelling
together at one and the same pace, we have no chance of
detecting the motion. That is the strength of the Principle
NOV., 1913. Sir Oliver Lodged Presidential Address 137
of .Relativity. The changes are not zero, but they cancel each
other out of observation.
It is the extreme omnipresence and uniformity and universal
agency of the ether of space that makes it so difficult to
observe. To observe anything you must have differences. If
all actions at a distance are conducted at the same, rate through
the ether, the travel of none of them can be observed. Find
something not conveyed by the ether and there is a chance.
Speaking as a physicist I must claim the ether as peculiarly
our own domain. The study of molecules we share with the
chemist, and matter in its various forms is investigated by all
men of science, but a study of the ether of space belongs to
physics only. I am not alone in feeling the fascination of this
portentous entity. Its curiously elusive and intangible character,
combined with its universal and unifying permeance, its
apparently infinite extent, its definite and perfect properties,
make the ether the most interesting as it is by far the largest
and most fundamental ingredient in the material cosmos.
Matter it is not, but material it is ;
it belongs to the material
universe and is to be investigated by ordinary methods. But
to say this is by no means to deny that it may have mental
and spiritual functions to subserve in some other order of
existence, as matter has in this.
The ether of space is at least the great engine of con-
tinuity. It may be much more, for without it there could
ardly be a material universe at all. Certainly, however, it
essential to continuity ;
it is the one all-permeating substance
at binds the whole of the particles of matter together. It
the uniting and binding medium without which, if matter
uld exist at all, it could exist only as chaotic and isolated
gments : and it is the universal medium of communication
tween worlds and particles. And yet it is possible for people
deny its existence, because it is unrelated to any of our
nses, except sight, and to that only in an indirect and not
sily recognised fashion.
But I hold that Science is incompetent to make compre-
ensive denials, even about the Ether, and that it goes wrong
hen it makes the attempt. Science should not deal in nega-
ons : it is strong in affirmations, but nothing based on abstrac-
ion ought to presume to deny outside its own region.
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. NOV., 1913.
Denial is no more infallible than assertion. There are cheap
and easy kinds of scepticism, just as there are cheap and easy
kinds of dogmatism ;
in fact scepticism can become viciously
dogmatic, and science has to be as much on its guard against
personal predilection in the negative as in the positive direction.
An attitude of universal denial may be very superficial.
'
To doubt everything or to believe everything are two
equally convenient solutions ;
both dispense with the ne-
cessity of reflection.'
All intellectual processes are based on abstraction. For
instance, History must ignore a great multitude of facts in
order to treat any intelligently : it selects. So does Art ;
and that is why a drawing is clearer than reality. Science
makes a diagram of reality, displaying the works, like a
skeleton clock. Anatomists dissect out the nervous system,
the blood vessels, and the muscles, and depict them separately,
there must be discrimination for intellectual grasp, but in
life they are all merged and co-operating together ; they do
not really work separately, though they be studied separately.
A scalpel discriminates : a dagger or a bullet crashes through
everything. That is life, or rather death. The laws of nature
are a diagrammatic framework, analysed or abstracted out of
the full comprehensiveness of reality.
Hence it is that Science has no authority in denials. To
deny effectively needs much more comprehensive knowledge
than to assert. And abstraction is essentially not comprehensive:
one cannot have it both ways. Science employs the methods
of abstraction and thereby makes its discoveries.
The reason why some physiologists insist so strenuously on
the validity and self-sufficiency of the laws of physics and
chemistry, and resist the temptation to appeal to unknown
causes even though the guiding influence and spontaneity of
living things are occasionally conspicuous as well as inexplic-
able is that they are keen to do their proper work ;
and
their proper work is to pursue the laws of ordinary physical
Energy into the intricacies of
"
colloidal electrolytic structures
of great chemical complexity
"
and to study its behaviour
there.
To attribute the rise of sap to vital force would be absurd,
it would be giving up the problem and stating nothing at all.
NOV., I'.M:;. N/V Oliver Lodge's Pr*< ,///'"/ /I'/'/- i:;:i
'I
1
! iii
way in which osmosis acts to produce the remarkable and
surprising effect is discoverable and lias been discovered.
So it is always in science, and its progress began when un-
known causes were eliminated and treated as non-existent.
Those causes, so far as they exist, must establish their footing
ly direct investigation and research; carried on in the first
instance apart from the long recognised branches of science,
until the time when they too have become sufficiently definite
to be entitled to be called scientific. Outlandish Territories
may in time be incorporated as States, but they must make their
claim good and become civilised first.
It is well for people to understand this definite limitation
of scope quite clearly, else they wrest the spendid work of
)iologists to their own confusion, helped it is true by a few
)f the more robust or less responsible theorisers, among those
i ho should be better informed and more carefully critical in
leir philosophising utterances.
But, as is well known, there are more than a few biologists
'ho, when taking a broad survey of their subject, clearly
jrceive and teach that before all the actions of live things
are fully explained, some hitherto excluded causes must be
postulated. Ever since the time of J. II.
Mayer it has been
becoming more and more certain that as regards performance
of work, a living thing obeys the laws of physics, like every-
thing else ;
but undoubtedly it initiates processes and produces
results that without it could not have occurred, from a bird's
nest to a honeycomb, from a deal box to a warship. The
behaviour of a ship firing shot and shell is explicable in
terms of energy, but the discrimination which it exercises
between friend and foe is not so explicable. There is plenty
of physics and chemistry and mechanics about every vital
action, but for a complete understanding of it
something
beyond physics and chemistry is needed.
And life introduces an incalculable element. The vagaries
of a fire or a cyclone could all be predicted by a Laplace's
Calculator, given the initial positions, velocities, and the law
of acceleration of the molecules ;
but no mathematician could
calculate the orbit of a common house-fly. A physicist into
whose galvanometer a spider had crept would be liable to get
phenomena of a kind quite inexplicable, until he discovered
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov.,1913.
the supernatural, i.e. literally superphysical, cause. I will
risk the assertion that Life introduces something incalculable
and powerful amid the laws of physics ;
it thus distinctly supple-
ments those laws, though it leaves them otherwise precisely
as they were and obeys them all. We see only its effect, we
do not see Life itself. Conversion of Inorganic into Organic
is effected always by living organisms. The conversion under
those conditions certainly occurs, and the process may be
studied.
What appears to be quite certain is that there can be no
terrestrial manifestation of life without matter. Hence naturally
people say, or they approve such sayings as,
"
I discern in
matter the promise and potency of all forms of life." Of
all terrestrial manifestations of life, certainly. How else
could it manifest itself save through matter ?
"
I detect
nothing in the organism but the laws of Chemistry and
Physics," it is said. Very well :
naturally enough. That is
what they are after ; they are studying the physical and
chemical aspects or manifestations of life. But life itself
life and mind and consciousness they are not studying, and
they exclude them from their purview. Matter is what
appeals to our senses here and now ;
Materialism is appropriate
to the material world ;
not as a philosophy but as a working
creed, as a proximate and immediate formula for guiding research.
Everything beyond that belongs to another region, and must
be reached by other methods. To explain the Psychical in
terms of Physics and Chemistry is simply impossible ;
hence
there is a tendency to deny its existence, save as an epiphe-
nomenon. But all such philosophising is unjustified, and is
really bad Metaphysics.
How consciousness became associated with matter, how life
exerts guidance over chemical and physical forces, how mechanical
motions are translated into sensations, all these things are
puzzling, and demand long study. But the fact that these
things are so admits of no doubt ;
and difficulty of explanation
is no argument against them. The blind man restored to
sight had no opinion as to how he was healed, nor could
he vouch for the moral character of the Healer, but he
plainly knew that whereas he was blind now he saw. About
that fact he was the best possible judge. So it is also with
Nov., 1913. Sir Oliver Lo<l<i<<' Presidential Addr 141
"this main miracle that thou art thoti, With power on thine
own act and on the world."
To understand the action of life itself, the simplest plan
is not to think of a microscopic organism, or any unfamiliar
animal, but to make use of our own experience as living
beings. Any positive instance serves to stem a comprehensive
denial ;
and if the reality of mind and guidance and plan
is denied because they make no appeal to sense, then think
how the world would appear to an observer to whom the
existence of men was unknown and undiscoverable, while yet
all the laws and activities of nature went on as they do now.
If he looked at the Firth of Forth, for instance, he would
see piers arising in the water, beginning to sprout, reaching
across in strange manner till they actually join or are joined
by pieces attracted up from below to complete the circuit
(a solid circuit round the current). He would see a sort of
bridge or filament thus constructed, from one shore to the
other, and across this bridge insect-like things crawling and
returning for no very obvious reason.
And note that what we observe, in such understood cases,
is an Interaction of Mind and Matter ;
not Parallelism nor
Epiphenomenalism nor anything strained or difficult, but a
straightforward utilisation of the properties of matter and
energy for purposes conceived in the mind, and executed by
muscles guided by acts of will.
Superficially and physically we are very limited. Our sense
organs are adapted to the observation of matter ;
and nothing
else directly appeals to us. Our nerve-muscle-system is adapted
to the production of motion in matter, in desired ways ;
and
nothing else in the material world can we accomplish. Our
brain and nerve systems connect us with the rest of the
physical world. Our senses give us information about the
movements and arrangements of matter. Our muscles enable
us to produce changes in those distributions. That is our
equipment for human life; and human history is a record of
what we have done with these parsimonious privileges.
Our brain, which by some means yet to be discovered con-
nects us with the rest of the material world, has been thought
partially to disconnect us from the mental and spiritual realm,
to which we really belong, but from which for a time and for
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1913.
practical purposes we are isolated. Our common or social
association with matter gives us certain opportunities and
facilities, combined with obstacles and difficulties which are
themselves opportunities for struggle and effort.
Through matter we become aware of each other, and can
communicate with those of our fellows who have ideas
sufficiently like our own for them to be stimulated into activity
by a merely physical process set in action by ourselves. By
a timed succession of vibratory movements (as in speech and
music), or by a static distribution of materials (as in writing,
painting, and sculpture), we can carry on intelligent intercourse
with our fellows ;
and we get so used to these ingenious and
roundabout methods, that we are apt to think of them and
their like as not only the natural but as the only possible
modes of communication, and that anything more direct would
disarrange the whole fabric of science.
It is clearly true that our bodies constitute the normal
means of manifesting ourselves to each other while on the
planet ;
and that if the physiological mechanism whereby we
accomplish material acts is injured, the conveyance of our
meaning and the display of our personality inevitably and
correspondingly suffer.
So conspicuously is this the case that it has been possible
to suppose that the communicating mechanism, formed and
worked by us, is the whole of our existence : and that we
are essentially nothing but the machinery by which we are
known. We find the machinery utilising nothing but well-
known forms of energy, and subject to all the laws of chemistry
and physics, it would be strange if it were not so, and from
that fact we try to draw valid deductions as to our nature,
and as to the impossibility of our existing apart from and
independent of these temporary modes of material activity
and manifestation. We so uniformly employ them, in our
present circumstances, that we should be on our guard against
deception due to this very uniformity. Material bodies are all
that we have any control over, are all that we are experi-
mentally aware of; anything that we can do with these is
open to us ; any conclusions we can draw about them may be
legitimate and true. But to step outside their province and
to deny the existence of any other region because we have
Kov.,1918. N/Y OUver /,<><
///<'* /V<NM//-///M// A</</re88.
no sense organ for its ap]in:dati"ii, or because (like the
it is too uniformly (Miinipresent I'or our ken, is to wrest our
advantages and privileges from their proper use and apply
them to our own misdirection.
We abstract from living moving Reality a certain static
aspect, and we call it Matter ;
we abstract the element of
progressiveness, and we call it Time. When these two abstrac-
tions combine, co-operate, interact, we get reality again. It
is like Poynting's theorem.
The only way to refute or confuse the theory of Evolution
is to introduce the subjectivity of time. That theory involves
the reality of time, and it is in this sense that Prof. Bergson
uses the great phrase
"
Creative Evolution."
I see the whole of material existence as a steady passage
from past to future, only the single instant which we call the
present being actual. The past is not non-existent, however, it is
stored in our memories, there is a record of it in matter, and
the present is based upon it ;
the future is the outcome of the
present, and is the product of evolution.
Existence is like the output from a loom. The pattern, the
design for the weaving, is in some sort
"
there
"
already ;
but
whereas our looms are mere machines, once the guiding cards
have been fed into them, the Loom of Time is complicated by
a multitude of free agents who can modify the web, making
the product more beautiful or more ugly according as they are
in harmony or disharmony with the general scheme. I
venture to maintain that manifest imperfections are thus
accounted for, and that freedom could be given on no other
terms, nor at any less cost.
Where inorganic matter alone is concerned, there everything
determined. Wherever full consciousness has entered, new
wers arise, and the faculties and desires of the conscious
parts of the scheme have an effect upon the whole. It is not
guided from outside but from within, and the guiding power
is immanent at every instant. Of this guiding power we are
a small but not wholly insignificant portion.
That evolutionary progress is real is a doctrine of profound
significance, and our efforts at social betterment are justified
because we are a part of the scheme, a part that has become
nscious, a part that realises, dimly at any rate, what it is
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1913.
doing and what it is
aiming at. Planning and aiming are
therefore not absent from the whole, for we are a part of the
whole, and are conscious of them in ourselves.
Although I am speaking ex cathedra, as one of the repre-
sentatives of orthodox science, I will not shrink from a personal
note summarising the result on my own mind of thirty years'
experience of psychical research, begun without predilection
indeed with the usual hostile prejudice. This is not the place
to enter into detail or to discuss facts scorned by orthodox
science, but I cannot help remembering that an utterance from
this chair is no ephemeral production, for it remains to be
criticised by generations yet unborn, whose knowledge must
inevitably be fuller and wider than our own. Your President
therefore should not be completely bound by the shackles of
present-day orthodoxy, nor limited to beliefs fashionable at the
time. In justice to myself and my co-workers I must risk
annoying my present hearers, not only by leaving on record
our conviction that occurrences now regarded as occult can be
examined and reduced to order by the methods of science
carefully and persistently applied, but by going further and
saying, with the utmost brevity, that already the facts so
examined have convinced me that memory and affection are
not limited to that association with matter by which alone
they can manifest themselves here and now, and that personality
persists beyond bodily death. The evidence nothing new or
sensational, but cumulative and demanding prolonged serious
study to my mind goes to prove that discarnate intelligence,
under certain conditions, may interact with us 011 the material
side, thus indirectly coming within our scientific ken; and
that gradually we may hope to attain some understanding of
the nature of a larger, perhaps etherial, existence, and of the
conditions regulating intercourse across the chasm. A body of
responsible investigators has even now landed on the treacherous
but promising shores of a new continent.
No. CCCIV.-VoL. XVI. MBER, 1913.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAOB
Obituary : Alfred Russel Wallace, 145
Professor Bergson and Mind. By P. C. Constable, - - 146
Cases, 149
Review, - 155
Personal Survival : the Form of Evidence. By F. C. Constable, 157
Notes on Current Periodicals, 159
OBITUARY.
ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE, O.M., F.R.S.
IT is with much regret that we record the loss of one of our
most distinguished Honorary Members, Alfred Russel "Wallace,
O.M., F.R.S., on November 7th, 1913, at the advanced age of
90 years. Dr. Wallace was elected an Honorary Member of
the Society in 1882. He has at various times contributed
to discussions in our Proceedings and Journal, but his chief work
in connection with psychical research was done long before the
Society was founded. He was one of the pioneers who, in
the early seventies, determined to investigate for themselves
in a region which at that time was very generally regarded as
beyond the pale of science, and the entrance to which was
)rohibited on pain of scorn and ridicule. His claim to fame
?sts of course on his wonderful work as a naturalist and on
lis having, almost at the same time as Darwin, but independently
of him, arrived at practically the same theory of the origin of
species through natural selection. It was characteristic of
Wallace that his chief book on this subject was entitled Dar-
winism, but his own name is one that will not be forgotten
while the history of the advancement of science in England
is remembered.
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1913.
PKOFESSOR BERGSON AND MIND.
BY F. C. CONSTABLE.
PROFESSOR BERGSON, in his admirable address to the S.P.E.,
said :
"
The brain simply extracts from the life of the mind
that which is capable of representation in movement. The
cerebral life is to the mental life what the movements of the
baton of a conductor are to the symphony. The brain, then,
is that which allows the mind to adjust itself exactly to
circumstances. It is the organ of attention to life. . . . But
from this it results that one of the roles of the brain is to limit
the vision of the mind, to render its action more efficacious."
Professor Bergson holds that the mind is distinct from mere
cerebral activity ;
cerebral activity is no more than a means
for the mind in limited action to
"
vision
"
our material universe.
This theory brings Professor Bergson into conflict with those
who do not distinguish between cerebral activity and mind ;
that is, with those who hold the theory of rigorous parallelism
between cerebral and mental activity : Professor Bergson is on
the side of the angels.
But have we any human evidence in support of or against
Professor Bergson's theory ? The professor's beauty of form in
language and his genius of imagination are perhaps scarcely in
agreement with the dry bones of bloodless argument. In spite
of this I would, in support of the angels, enter on the desert
of dry argument.
Men of science, at present, accept the theory of the conser-
vation of energy, and, if the theory be relied on, it assumes
energy to be, in itself, something unaffected by time and space,
as those terms were understood before the advent of Professor
Bergson. The manifestations of energy in protean form
gravity, electricity, etc. are manifestations in our universe of
time and space, but energy itself remains, by definition, noumenal.
These men of science place the foundation of our universe in
something which is not material, but which, changeless in time
and space, acts on the material, or possibly sets up the material.
One might therefore expect that they would treat mind
as something distinct from mere cerebral activity : would treat
it as something relatively noumenal which is partially manifest
in relation to our universe in or through cerebral activity.
Dec., 1913. Professor Bergson and Mi-mi. 147
But with profound respect for Professor Bergson the
strongest argument is to be found in Emanuel Kant's trans-
cendental philosophy. I have worried out this argument at
objectionable length in Pn-afmalil i/
<tnd Telepathy, and so here
give but a digest made as intelligible as possible.
Hume started with the assumption that there is no distinc-
tion between mental and cerebral activity, and was led, by
sound argument, to a conclusion
"
that all our distinct percep-
tions are distinct existences, and that the mind never perceives
any real connexion among distinct existences." If mental and
cerebral activity are not to be distinguished, Hume's conclusion
follows directly : for then human experience begins and ends
with the presentation of objects.
Then came Kant, and, with Hume, he makes human experi-
ence begin with the presentation of objects. But he does not make
it so end, for if he did, Hume's difficulty would not be overcome.
Kant introduces the
"
schematism of the understanding," and
lys :
"
In truth it is not images of objects, but schemata, which
lie at the foundation of our pure sensuous conceptions."
But how is this schematism possible ?
Through the power
imagination which is in man. And whence comes this
>wer ? From, Kant holds, the
"
soul of man."
For the
"
soul of man "
we may use the term "
intuitive self,"
I have done, or the transcendent or subliminal self, or we
iay use any term we please. But the point is that Kant
listinguished mind from cerebral activity, and produced cogent
juments in support of his contention.
Again, if mind be the same as cerebral activity, man cannot
>y any possibility think outside the limits of cerebral activity.
This argument, so far as I know, has never been replied to.
If man can only think or have "
awareness
"
in parallelism
cerebral activity, he cannot be
"
aware
"
that he is
thinking
dthin limits. The limits of his thought cannot, by himself,
recognized as limits. For, to determine his own thought
limited he must have an idea or an "
awareness
"
of thought
r
hich is not limited : he must have an idea or
"
awareness
"
>f
something outside his limits of thought, and this necessarily
implies an idea or
"
awareness
"
of something to be thought
mtside his limits of thought. This is impossible. It is a
latter of indifference what universe such a man might exist
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1913.
in : his power of thought would still be subject to his limits
of thought : all his thought in limits would be exhaustive,
to him, noumenal.
But what can man do ? He can and does determine his
thought as relative, that is, as limited. No human being has
ever been able to determine what form, size, substance, or colour
is. Man cannot even relate form to size, size to colour, for
instance ;
all he can do is to relate one form to another, one
size to another, and so determine relative definitions. So our
mind is
"
aware
"
that its knowledge is not knowledge : that
its knowledge is no more than relative knowledge. But it is
cerebral activity that conditions thought, so cerebral activity is
a subject of the
"
awareness
"
of the mind : the mind "
looks
down on
"
cerebral activity.
Man "
arrives at
"
vital knowledge of his own ignorance.
This would be impossible if he were but a personality of limited
cerebral thought, for, existing solely in such limits of thought,
there could, to him, be no possible field for thought or
"
aware-
ness
"
outside his own limits. There would be nothing of
"
awareness
"
in him to look down on cerebral activity.
Herein, I think, we find the strongest argument in support
of the theory of distinction between mind and cerebral activity.
Again, following Kant, what we know of mental "
operation
"
demands the presentation to the mind of the manifold of
intuition, and this cannot result from the mere presentation
of objects : the presentation can only exist if we assume what
Kant terms a soul in man. Neither this presentation nor its
reception is measurable ;
there is involved no more than what
may be termed a
"
condition precedent
"
necessary to explain
the observed
"
operation
"
of the mind. Cerebral activity is
related to
"
cerebral
"
facts, which, being in time and space (as
the terms are ordinarily understood), are measurable : the mind
"
measures
"
through cerebral activity, but the
"
measurement
"
would be useless for mental activity without the presentation
of the manifold of intuition.
I do not enter now on the question of what mind is, or
the distinction between time (as measurable in relation to space)
on the one hand and duration on the other. All attempted
is to show that there are strong, even scientifically strong,
arguments in support of Professor Bergson's assumption.
Dec., 1913. Cases. 149
CASES.
L. 1198. Vision.
THE following case of a telepathic impression was sent to us
by Mrs. A. K. Bulley, an Associate of the Society. The per-
cipient, whose real name we suppress by her own request, is
here called Miss Hartmann. She is a friencl of Mrs. Bulley's
iiiul was staying with her at the time of her experience,
which it will be noted occurred before any one in the house
knew of the illness with which it coincided.
Mrs. Bulley's account is as follows :
NESS, NESTON, CHESHIRE,
5.40 a.m., Nov. 14, 1913.
On Wednesday, Nov. 12th, my hand-bag was packed for me to
take the 10.16 [train] Burton Point Station for Chirk, via Wrexhaiu,
when I received a telephone message, sent by the landlady of a very
old family friend, a dressmaker,
" Miss Hyde is
seriously ill and needs
the care of some friend." I phoned back I would come at once.
I then wired to my friend in Wales that I was summoned to an old
friend very seriously ill, and might have to postpone my visit.
I caught the next train to Liverpool, 10.38 a.m.
Before I left, when I said good-bye to [Miss Hartmann] she said
with much feeling, "Poor Mum!" (my home name). "Why poor?
It's lucky it caught me in time so that I can help her." She said
again, "Poor Mum. She will die. Will you mind very much?" I
assured her there was no need to jump to the conclusion Miss Hyde
would die because she was ill, and I attached no importance to [Miss
Hartmann's] conviction.
The landlady explained she had sent for me [herself], Miss Hyde not
realising the seriousness of her case and always being anxious "not
to trouble any one." [It was a case of] stoppage of the bowels;
sickness and pain setting in the night before ;
the patient seventy
years old. . . .
Mrs. Bulley, after removing the patient to a Nursing Home,
where she left her comfortably settled, and "
enjoying a cup of
tea," returned home, and she states that Miss Hartmann, on seeing
her, immediately asked,
"
Is she dead ?
"
At about 9.45 p.m.,
on receiving a telephone message that Miss Hyde's condition was
serious and an operation necessary, Mrs. Bulley returned to
the Home. Her account continues as follows :
I was allowed to stay with the patient, who was absolutely
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec.,1913.
free from pain, and quite herself at first, till she died at 8.15 a.m.,
Nov. 13, 1913. While she dozed I thought much of my old nurse,
Edaw, whom I was to meet that very afternoon on her return from
Oxfordshire : what a shock it would be to her that her old friend of
forty-seven years' standing was gone (Edaw didn't even know Miss
Hyde was ill), how could I break it to her, etc. It was much on
my mind.
An hour before the patient died I was amazed by her temporary
extraordinary likeness, in the lower part of the face, to "
Gran," my
husband's old nurse, when she lay dying. It carried me back to that
death-bed in April, 1912, so vividly that I altered the position of
the lamp, and by and by drew up the blind ;
it was almost uncanny
that two mouths, utterly different when closed, should appear so
like then. Later the patient closed her mouth, and the likeness
vanished. . . .
Mrs. Bulley then relates that when she returned home in
the evening of the same day, Miss Hartmann told her that on
the night of Tuesday, Nov. llth, at about 11.45 p.m., she
had an impression of a dying woman, whose death would
cause pain to Mrs. Bulley ;
at first she thought it was Edaw,
then that it was "
Gran," who had died a year before, but, on
looking again, she saw it was a woman she did not know.
Her own full account of this is given below. Mrs. Bulley
continues :
I have often meant to note down somewhat similar telepathic
instances connected with [Miss Hartmann], but have let them slip.
Though now of no evidential value, to shew her type I may mention
that once when I called her in the morning she looked absent-minded,
and said in a puzzled voice,
" Now that's very unusual. Mother is
writing to me now. But she never does write letters before breakfast.
She is the first up, she attends to her flowers and does other things,
but never writes letters." So we noted the day the letter should
arrive, and it came. "What did I tell you," said [Miss Hartmann],
"listen to this," and she read how her mother said, "contrary to
my custom, I am writing to you before breakfast, etc.". . .
H. A. BULLEY.
The percipient's account, which she dictated to Mrs. Bulley,
and afterwards signed, is as follows :
Nov. 14, 1913, 10 a.m.
I didn't dream, I was awake. I found myself sitting up in bed
Dec., 1913. <''i#e8. 151
and lighting the candle. And then I saw an old woman in bed,
and I was quite conscious that she was dying. Then I felt that
horrible feeling that somebody else was going to suffer badly from
that death, that I had no personal feeling in the matter. Then I
thought it was Edaw. I think it was a light head, not grey, and
I think it was this made me think "No, it isn't Edaw, it's Gran."
Then I thought "It can't be Gran, because I know she's dead."
And then I thought, anyhow I won't tell Mum because she might
believe it was Edaw, and it certainly wasn't Edaw. When I lit
the candle I saw it was 10 minutes to 12, or 20 to, I forget which
now.
[The woman] was lying on her back, quite calm, but there was
something about the breathing like Gran. I saw her face ;
if I could
model, I could do it. I remember the shape, the colour, and the
line of nose rather a good nose from the tip.
I have had the above read over to me, and it is what I have
this moment dictated.
(Signed) M. M. HARTMANN.
Mrs. Bulley obtained the following independent statement
from Nellie, the housemaid, to whom Miss Hartmann related
her experience the morning after the occurrence :
8.15 a.m., Nov. 14, 1913.
[Miss Hartmann] told me she saw some old person, who she
thought was Edaw, who looked as if she was dying; it was
such a relief to her to find it was not. She told me this about
9.40, just as Mrs. Bulley had got the telephone message about
Miss Hyde.
E. DAVIES.
Mrs. Bulley wrote later:
November 16th, 1913.
I had told no one at all about the likeness to Gran until after
*I
heard [Miss Hartmann's] experience. We all knew the death would
hit Edaw hard ; [Miss Hartmann] would not need to be told that ;
but
when she had her experience there was this remarkable coincidence,
that she saw an old woman dying, that the thought of Edaw and Gran
was closely associated with it, and that the very next night I was
for hours watching an old woman dying, and thinking especially of
Edaw and Gran.
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1913.
G. 287. Apparition.
THE following account of an apparition was sent to Mr. G. W.
Balfour by a correspondent, Mr. F., who is well acquainted
with the percipient. The names and addresses of all the
persons concerned were given to us, but by special request
pseudonyms or initials have been substituted here.
The first written account of her experience was given by
Madame Marbot, as she is called here, in a letter to Mr. F. r
to whom she had described her experience verbally at an
earlier date. Her letter is as follows :
[June, 1913.]
You have asked me to write down for you what I saw at N., that
small village in the mountains of Savoy. Here it is :
'
You remember that I was laid up for some time below, near the
lake. It was thought that the pure fresh air of the heights would
do me good, and I was taken up in a sort of camp-bed. The only
inn of the village is at its entrance. Then comes a small restaurant,
and the ascending road turns round into the village, which one
cannot see from the hotel.
I was carried into my room, and for the next three weeks spent
my time in it and in a sitting-room next to it. Then I was able
to go down and sit in a meadow, some little distance from the
inn and to its left. At last, after another week, I thought I would
venture up to the right, into the village, which was unknown to
me, and there happened the strange thing which you asked me to
relate.
I said before there was a turn which led to the village. To the
right is a road leading up to the parish church, which is hidden by
a large rock ;
to the left, a house with a barn, and next to it a sort
of chalet with a pointed roof. As I looked up, attracted by its old
queer build, I saw behind the top of the roof, and seemingly resting
his hands on the other side, a Curate in Roman Catholic clothing
and with a strange sort of cap on his head, like those worn by
Curates in church, but with what seemed stripes of white and black.
The priest had a pale face with regular features and seemed to
look at me intently, not even turning off his eyes when I stared
back, wishing him to understand that I thought his manners
strange. In this way I had a very good sight of him, and, if an
artist, I could easily recall his features on paper. A stone, over
which I stumbled, made me look down instinctively. When I
Dec., 1913. Gases. l">-'i
turned my eyes again, the apparition was gone, and I went onwards
thinking to myself how the manners of those village priests wanted
improvement.
A few steps further I arrived at a sort of little square, where the
village fountain and the letter-box are, and after putting in a letter,
I sat on a stone staircase under it, and had ,'a good look at the
chalet, where I had seen the priest. It was uninhabited ;
its shutters
were shut, and the whole place had an air of abandonment and
desolation. I could not see what was on the other side of the roof,
where there must be a balcony, on which the Curate must have stood,,
so I moved on to the other side of the little square, from where I
would have a view of the back. To my intense astonishment there
was no balcony, nor anything but a roof as pointed as to the front,
nor ^ny means of getting to it in any way. Then the Curate
must have been an apparition, and this thought sent an unpleasant
sort of cold shiver through me, and I turned back home at once.
On my way I met my landlady's daughter, a girl of sixteen.
"What is that chalet there?" said I, "and why is it
unoccupied?"
"Oh, well," said the girl, "we don't like to speak of it, but ask my
mother, maybe she won't mind telling you." The good woman was
on her threshold, and of course I asked her at once, and then I
heard that the house was unoccupied, because no one could stay
in it. There were strange noises, knocks in fact, it was considered
haunted. " Years ago," said she,
" a Curate inhabited it, because he
had property here and also relations."
Madame Marbot here gives the landlady's account of the
general theory of the haunt, which was attributed to the fact
that the Priest's will could not be found, and that the next
of kin, who would not have benefitted by it, were suspected of
having destroyed it.
Madame Marbot continues :
I became convinced that I had seen the spirit of the Curate.
Many a time did I pass before that chalet, but he appeared no
more. Days passed, and I went back to my abode down near the
lake. One day, as I was coming out of a shop, a woman whom
I vaguely recognised as having seen her here before, came up to
me and then asked me if I would kindly receive her for a few
moments. She came home with me, and then asked me if it was
really true that I had seen the apparition of a Curate up in the
village of N. "
For," said she,
" I belong to the family to whom
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1913.
our relation, the Curate, left his property in a will, which could
not be found after his death." ... I naturally gave this woman the
assurance that it was perfectly true. I had seen that apparition.
" But what a strange headgear he had," said I,
"
Why were there
those unusual stripes of white and black ?
"
After a moment's
thought the woman said,
"
Well, 1 think I can account for them.
When our relation was put in his coffin, the women around him
passed a white ribbon between the cloth stripes of his cap." I
-cannot remember what reason the woman gave for it, or perhaps
she gave no reason, but it is strange I saw this detail, known by
none but the dead Priest's immediate attendants ! The woman
went away quite pleased, and I know no more, as I have left that
part of the country.". . .
[Signed] L. MARBOT.
The following questions were then put to Madame Marbot
through Mr. F. :
(1) Would it be possible to obtain corroboration of the story from
Madame Marbot's landlady, to whom apparently she related her
experience immediately after it occurred 1
(2) Would it be possible to obtain a first-hand account from the
relative of the Curate, with regard to her statement about the tying
of the white ribbon in the cap]
(3) Could any statement be obtained from people living in the
village as to the alleged haunting of the house 1 Is it certain that
Madame Marbot had never heard that the house was haunted 1
(4) What was the date of Madame Marbot's experience ?
In reply to these enquiries Madame Marbot wrote to Mr.
F. as follows :
July 31st, 1913.
I myself can only repeat that I had no idea there was such a
thing as a house reputed haunted in the village. It is impossible
for me to say the exact date [of my experience]. I never dreamt
any one would take an interest in it, and all I can tell is that it
was after the 15th of August, 1912; between the 15th and the 25th.
I am sorry not to be able to send you the evidence of the woman
about the white ribbon. She is no longer here, and as [the Priest's
death] happened some years ago, it is difficult to obtain evidence of
any value about it now.
[Signed] L. MARBOT.
Three corroborative statements in French were enclosed with
this letter. Translations of them are as follows :
Dec., 1!M3. Oa \~>~>
[.July, 1913.]
I certify by these lines that [Madame Marbot] told me last year
that she had seen the apparition of a Priest above a house of the
village of N. and that she had been told afterwards that the house
was considered haunted.
[Signed] ABB R., Vicar of St. G.
July 25, 1913.
Last year, in the month of August, [Madame Marbot] told me
that she had seen the ghost of a Priest, above a house where he
had formerly lived.
[Signed] CKLINE N.
July 30, 1913.
I remember perfectly that [Madame Marbot] told me last year
in the month of August that she had seen the apparition of a Priest
above a house in the village.
She did not know that this house was reputed to be haunted.
[Signed] MELANIE C., Innkeeper.
Madame C. is the landlady to whom Madame Marbot related
her experience immediately after its occurrence.
Subsequently Madame Marbot succeeded in finding the wit-
ness who had described the black cap that the priest was
wearing at the time of his burial.
Her testimony, which is in French, is translated as follows :
August, 1913.
I remember very well having talked with [Madame Marbot] of
the apparition which she saw last year in the month of August.
She spoke to me of the black and white headgear which surprised
her, and I told her that it might well be so, and I can corroborate
her as to the white, which was put in by my husband.
[Signed] MARIE C.
REVIEW.
IN the Century Magazine for September, 1913, there is an interesting
article by Maurice Maeterlinck called Life after Death. 1
Mr. Maeter-
linck declares that in his opinion there are only two modern theories
of personal survival which are worth serious discussion, "the
neotheosophical and neospiritualistic theories."
1
The article appears also in the Fortnightly Review for September and October,
1913.
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1913.
In discussing the neospiritualistic theory, Mr. Maeterlinck deals
chiefly with the evidence collected by the Society for Psychical
Research. With many of his conclusions most investigators will
agree, but on some points his arguments are open to objection.
He says that "supernormal manifestations" relating to "life beyond
the grave
"
can be divided into two categories : direct manifesta-
tions, that is to say, objective and spontaneous apparitions, and
manifestations obtained by the agency of mediums, e.g. by automatic
writing. In discussing the question of direct manifestations, Mr.
Maeterlinck says :
It appears, therefore, to be as well established as a fact can be that a
spiritual or nervous shape, an image, a belated reflection of life, is capable
of subsisting for some time, of releasing itself from the body, or surviving
it, ... of manifesting itself to the living, and, sometimes, of communi-
cating with them.
For the rest, we have to recognise that these apparitions are very
brief. They take place only at the precise moment of death, or follow
very shortly after.
Mr. Maeterlinck speaks of these apparitions as
"
objective," whereas
the evidence at present available points rather to their being
hallucinations, sometimes of telepathic origin.
1
If this view is
justified, then there is no such dividing line as Mr. Maeterlinck
draws between the phenomena of apparitions and those of automatic
writing. Both may be the result of a telepathic impression, whether
from the living or from the dead, which is expressed in one case
by a sensory hallucination, and in the other by a form of motor
automatism.
In regard to mediumistic communications, Mr. Maeterlinck rightly
observes that so long as it is possible to explain them by the
action of forces which we know to exist, e.g. living minds, we have
no right to ascribe them to forces which we do not know to exist.
He deals only briefly with the evidence recently obtained by cross-
correspondences, observing that he does not consider that the suspicion
of telepathy is here removed. He alleges the trivial nature of the com-
munications as a reason against supposing them to come from the dead :
Is it really worth while to have passed through the terrifying gorges
which open on the eternal fields in order to remember that we had a
great uncle called Peter, and that our cousin Paul was afflicted with
varicose veins or a gastric complaint ? . . . Do they [the dead] not yet
know that the sign which will prove to us that they survive is to be
found not with us but with them, on the other side of the grave ?
1
See Telepathic Hallucinations, by F. Podmore.
Dec., 1913. Review. 157
[In all these attempts] thru- is tin- sain.- .har.K-tt-i -j,ti,-
inability to bring
us the veri.-st particle of truth <T kimwl.-.!^-, <>f which no vestige can !.
found in a living brain, or in a book written on earth.
Mr. Maeterlinck does not make it clear how "truth" of this
kind is to be tested. He suggests that convincing evidence might be
given by means of "an astronomical or biological revelation." But
is it not likely that, following the course whicn Mr. Maeterlinck
himself prescribes, the majority of people would ascribe these
revelations, if they proved correct, to known causes, e.g. scientific
genius, or chance coincidence? But although the difficulties in the
way of obtaining evidence of this kind are very great, it must be
admitted that such evidence might conceivably be obtained. The
failure to obtain it does not, however, vitiate other kinds of
evidence, especially as we know almost nothing of the conditions
under which the supposed communications occur. Cross-correspond-
ences must be judged on their own merits, not in relation to the
kind of evidence we might hope or desire to get.
At the conclusion of his article Mr. Maeterlinck criticises Colonel
de Rochas's attempt to prove the transmigration of souls by the
recovery through hypnotism of the memory of former existences,
and points out that the experiments are vitiated by the fact that
the possibility of suggestion has not been eliminated.
Mr. Maeterlinck shows himself an open-minded critic of psychical
research, and it is a matter for congratulation that so distinguished
a writer should interest himself in this subject. H. DE G. V.
I
PERSONAL SURVIVAL: THE FORM OF EVIDENCE.
BY F. C. CONSTABLE.
POSSIBLY the suggestions herein made may be of more weight
because the writer, while accepting the evidence for personal
survival to be found in cross-correspondences, has not been
affected by it so strongly as many others have.
If we consider the form of evidence that can be adduced
towards proof of spiritual survival, it has to be admitted, at
the outset, that it must be anthropomorphic. For there is no
question of how the disembodied exist or what their form of
existence is : that cannot be known to us as subjects, it can
only be known to us as transcendent subjects. The question
is of how the disembodied can prove to the embodied that
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1913.
they, the disembodied, continue in existence. So the evidence
offered must be of such a nature that it appeals to the
embodied : it must in its nature be anthropomorphic.
Now for us, the embodied, what .do we know of one
another ? If I, for instance, could prove to any one of the
Council of the S'.P.K. that I knew him or her down to the
very depths of personality : knew his or her secret thoughts,
secret desires and ambitions, knew in fact his or her secret
life of personality, which I affirm is of more importance to
the great majority of us personally than that part of our
personality known to the world, what would be the result ?
I should be banned with horror ;
even the picked men and
women of the Council pass through life with their personalities
only manifest to their fellows in eating, drinking, talking and
writing on sublunary facts. A Marie Bashkirtseff or Benvenuto
Cellini is an abnormal human being. It is true there are
some human beings with the digestion of an ox and the skin
of a rhinoceros who pass through life as mindlessly as a
primordial lump of protoplasm. But, for the great majority,
personality in its fullness is found in imagination : we live
not in the is but in the might be.
Think for a moment : if you were faced by any one who
knew you to the depth of your soul, would you not retreat
in horror ? Ketreat, not in horror of revelation to others of
evil in yourself, but in sheer horror of being faced by such
abnormal knowledge.
If the above argument be sound, how then can the dis-
embodied prove their continuance in existence to the embodied ?
By evidence of their past or present spiritual state ? No.
For that, even when the disembodied were on earth, was
unknown to their fellows. How prove to a prisoner, who all
through life has been imprisoned in a narrow cell, the glories
of the open air ?
The only possible evidence of continuity any one of the
disembodied can offer to the embodied is evidence of the
former's past human life. And this evidence, too, must be
of that part of his past human life which was manifest to
his fellows.
What will be the nature of this evidence ? Concrete, simple
facts. We may, for analogy, consider the Tichborne case
Dec., 1913. Personal Survival: Form of Evidence. 159
where the claimant tried to prove his personality as Tichboru<-.
What was the form of evidence offered ? Of likeness in ab-
stract personality ? No. Personality was attempted to be
proved by the weight of knowledge of concrete facts. It
were more absurd for any one disembodied to try, by spiritual
evidence, to prove to us evidentially his continued existence
than it would have been for Orton to try to prove he was
Tichborne by evidence that he had the same dreams and
ambitions.
One objection to the above line of argument must be met.
There are some who know, by personal experience, that the
disembodied survive in personality. But this experience is
personal : it is evidential in no way. Many of us are con-
vinced in our inmost souls that we have had transcendent
communication with the disembodied : but this experience is
not evidential ;
it is of value only to the particular individual.
Put yourself in a room alone, unseen, unheard by any one
outside : assume you can only speak through the voice of
another. What would you say to prove your identity ?
Speak of your spiritual self ? Of your life of dreams ? No.
You would speak of simple, concrete facts of your life, which
would be likely to appeal to the anthropomorphic knowledge
of your listener.
The question of the value of the evidence forthcoming from
cross-correspondences is not now raised. All attempted is to
show that the argument preferred against the evidence because
its form is simply that of puerile, concrete, anthropomorphic
facts, is bad. That form of evidence is the only evidence
available. Personal proof is transcendent of human thought .
it is not evidential, has value only for the person concerned
NOTES ON CURRENT PERIODICALS.
The Archives de Psyrhologie. Number 50 (June 1913) of this
valuable periodical contains several matters of interest to psychical
researchers. (1) In Un Cas de Conviction Spontanee Dr. V. Demole
relates how one morning just after awaking he suddenly became
convinced that one of his patients in the hospital had died. He at
once took notes, and tried to analyse his state of mind. It turned
out that the patient had died some hours before, and that the
impression was therefore apparently "veridical." Dr. Demole,
1GO Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec., 1913.
however, proceeds to explain it by association of ideas and comparison
with another patient in the same ward in a very similar condition
who had died four days earlier. But, as Prof. Flournoy in his
comments on the case points out, this explanation ignores the
double coincidence that Dr. Demole had never had such an experi-
ence before, and that his train of thought in this case conducted
him to a veridical conclusion, which he could not have known by
normal means. Hence Prof. Flournoy holds that the possibility that
telepathy or clairvoyance was involved cannot be excluded. (2)
Dr. Burnand tells a story of a nervous patient who saw a friend
of hers who was in Russia coming out of a shop at Leysin and
disappearing when she tried to speak to him. Inquiries at the shop
confirmed the hallucinatory character of the apparition. She told
the doctor the same day, and he took notes. Two days later she
told him that her friend appeared to have had half his moustache
shaved off, and it was found that she had mentioned this detail
to her sister-in-law on the day of the apparition. On the next
day the lady received a letter informing her that her friend had
had a boil on his lip, and that in consequence half his moustache
had been shaved off. (3) Dr. Dunant relates a souvenir of his
childhood current in his family. When 19 months old he was
apparently dying of bronchial pneumonia. On the morning of the
night the doctor had said he would not survive, he awoke and
whispered to his mother, "Mamma, I have seen God." The mother
asked, "What was He like ?
"
"Very big and all white." "What did
He say to you?" "He has cured me." He then fell asleep again,
and when he awoke, the doctor found him free from fever, and
convalescing.
F. C. S. S.
The Revue de Psychotherapie for July and August, 1913, contains an
article by Dr. Bonjour of Lausanne on Miraculous Healings. He would
explain most of the reported and apparently non-hysterical cases on
the assumption that disease-processes are susceptible to considerable
control by the nervous system through the vasomotor and trophic
nerves, especially the processes concerned in the maintenance of
tuberculous and other chronic abscesses.
He quotes from his own practice a number of cases in which he
has cured warts and chronic corneal ulcers by suggestion, and one in
which he has employed the same means to bring about the birth
of a child, under hypnosis, three weeks before the normal time.
V. J. W.
No. CCCV.-VoL. XVI. .IXM-ARV, 1914.
JOURNAL
OF THK
Society for Psychical Research
CONTKNT8.
I'AOE
Now Members and Associates, 162
Meeting of the Council, 162
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, 163
Additional Office Room, 163
Report on some Experiments in Thought-transference. By the Hon. Everard
Feilding and Alice Johnson, l'4
Report on Experiments with "
Amy Joyce." By W. W. Baggally, - - - - 168
Note on the Experiments with "
Amy Joyce." By J. Arthur Hill,
- - -
173
Obituary : the Rev. J. W. Barlow, 175
Sir Oliver Lodge's Presidential Address to the British Association, - - - I7i>
Issue of Proceedings, 176
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE
(in the Robert Barnes Hall),
i WIMPOLE STREET, LONDON, W.,
On FRIDA Y, JANUARY 30^, 1914, at 3- 3O p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" On the Psychology of the Piper Trance Phenomena
"
WILL BE READ BY
MRS. HENRY SIDGWICK.
N.B. Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member
or Associate is allowed to invite ONE friend.
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1914.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Cole-Hamilton, Mrs., c/o Messrs. H. S. King <fc Co., 9 Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
Hutchison, Mrs,, 8 The Manor, Davies Street, London, W.
James, Miss S. Boucher, Hallsannery, Bideford, N. Devon.
Pulver, S. H., Dunedin House, Basinghall Avenue, London, E.G.
Sutro, Alfred, 31 Chester Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Tugwell, Mrs. Arthur, Hatley St. George, Torquay.
Westmorland, Brigadier-General C. H., C.B., c/o Messrs. H. S.
King & Co., 9 Pall Mall, London, S.W.
BLACK, MRS., 37 Rectory Place, Woolwich, London, S,E.
EDWARDS, JAMES H., Sutton Hall, Sutton, Thirsk, Yorks.
ERSKINE, MRS., The Buries, Bishopstrow, Warminster, Wilts.
FEILMANN, MRS., 4B Montagu Mansions, Baker Street, London, W.
FIRTH, COLONEL R. H., Peshawar, India.
FRAENKEL, DR. JOSEPH, 21 East 82nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
GOBEL, J. S., Fran9ois Valentijnstraat 199, The Hague, Holland.
HANNES, MRS. JULIUS, Woolley Firs, Maidenhead Thicket, Berks.
HARRISON, WILLIAM, Clovelly, Brighton Road, Redhill, Surrey.
HOLLWAY, C. R., Balliol College, Oxford.
BUTTON, MRS., St. Mary's Vicarage, Brighton, E.
JORDAN, H. W., 23 Station Road, Winchmore Hill, London, N.
KARMINSKI, MRS., 12 Lyndhurst Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
KING, W. A. H., Balliol College, Oxford.
MACKAY, N. DOUGLAS, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy, Perthshire.
MACKENZIE, H. GORDON, M.D., 74 Wimpole Street, London, W.
NEWBOLD, L. BOULTON, La Jolla, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
POND, GEORGE F., 816 Commonwealth Building, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
WADE, Miss FLORENCE, 52 Alexandra House, Judd Street, London,
W.C.
WALKER, Miss MAY C., Halcyon Club, 14 Cork Street, London, W.
WINGHAM, T. H., 174 Aberdeen Avenue, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 125th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, December llth, 1913, at
5.45 p.m. ;
MR. H. ARTHUR SMITH in the chair. There were
i.i n Meeting of the Council. 163
also present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William F. Barrett,
Tli.- Rev. M. A. Bayfield, The Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir
Lawrence Jones, Mr. W. M'Dougall, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr. S. C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
and Mrs. A. W. Verrall ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Kesearch
Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Seven new Members and twenty-one new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for November, 1913, were presented
and taken as read.
The seal of the Society was affixed to the lease of an
Iditional room which the Council had decided to take for office
irposes, their tenancy of which is to begin after Christmas,
13.
IIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 48th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, December llth, 1913, at
:>.4.~ p.m.; SIR LAWRENCE JONES in the chair.
DR. V. J. WOOLLEY read a paper on "
Some Auto-suggested
Visions as illustrating Dream-formation," which, it is hoped,
will be published later in the Proceedings.
MRS. CLAUDE ASKEW gave an account of "A Telepathic
Impression of the Voltumo Disaster," which will shortly appear
in the Journal.
ADDITIONAL OFFICE ROOM.
WE are glad to be able to announce to our Members and
Associates that an additional room adjoining our present rooms
on the top floor of 20 Hanover Square, has just been taken by
the Society, and is expected to be ready for occupation, after
being re-decorated, shortly after the beginning of the New Year.
It has been felt for some time that the room which contains the
main part of the Society's Library is inconveniently crowded
and that more use might be made of the Library if the accom-
modation for members who may wish to read or to consult
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1914.
the books there were less insufficient. The Council have con-
sequently been on the look-out for an opportunity of enlarging
their premises and have taken advantage of a vacancy which
has just occurred. The new room will be for the use of the
Assistant Eesearch Officer, who has hitherto had to work in
the Library, and it will give extra facilities for experiments, as
well as for the work of the Society in general.
EEPOET ON SOME EXPEEIMENTS IN THOUGHT-
TKANSFEEENCE.
BY THE HON. EVERARD FEILDING AND ALICE JOHNSON.
IN the Journal for July, 1913, appeared a preliminary report
by Sir Oliver Lodge of a case of telepathy, with the statement
that it was hoped to experiment further with the same subject
and to present a further report to the Society.
Further experiments have been carried out ;
but the results
are not sufficiently conclusive to justify anything in the nature
of a decisive report, whether favourable or unfavourable to the
claims of this subject to telepathic faculty. The subject, a
girl of fourteen, whom, because it is not her name, we will
call "Amy Joyce," spent a week from Oct. 18 to Oct. 25,
1913, at E. F.'s house in London, her*" -father, Mr. Joyce,
being there also from Oct. 18th to 20th. She spent the next
week-end, Oct. 25th to 27th, with Mr. Baggally in Brighton.
A large number of experiments were tried under conditions
at first somewhat lax, but subsequently more stringent, but
little or no evidence of telepathy was obtained, except in some
of Mr. Baggally's experiments which are separately reported
below.
One very definite conclusion was, however, reached by the
experimenters, namely, that in the experiments in question
Amy Joyce habitually and very cleverly availed herself of any
opportunity of normal vision which might present itself, and
also that she as habitually and as cleverly tried to conceal
the fact of her having done so.
One way of perceiving apparently hidden objects is, of course,
through getting a view of their reflections. If a person who
wears glasses holds some such object as a playing-card in
such a position that the light from it, whether artificial or
JAN., I!M. rtnt< Experiments in Thought-Transference. 165
daylight, falls on his glasses, another person facing him at a
distance of several feet can, if the angles are correct, easily
see its reflection in his glasses. All that is necessary is that
thr
"
agent
"
should have the light behind or above him. If
the angle is especially favourable, cards can be guessed by this
Mifiins in rapid succession; but even if it is not, and the
guesser has to depend on casual movements of the
"
agent's
"
head for catching the reflection, it is still possible to bring
oft" successes in a much higher ratio than chance would
account for, and in a way very puzzling to any one who
does not see how it is done.
It was evident, and Amy herself ultimately admitted it,
that she had discovered this method, and that she made use
>f it whenever she could in guessing cards held by her father,
wears thick glasses producing very clearly visible reflections,
mcl who was not accustomed to guard against her seeing them.
But this was by no means the only method used by Amy
in the course of our experiments. She appears in some
latters to be anything but an observant child, and, indeed, to
so little interested in things in general as at first to put
experimenters off their guard in dealing with her. But a
little experience shows that she is abnormally quick of vision
ind clever at seeing things without appearing to see them.
As already stated, the conditions of experimentation were
it first somewhat lax. One of several persons in the room
rould draw a diagram or picture, and Amy would try to
guess it. This method was deliberately, and, as we now think,
mistakenly, adopted at E. F.'s suggestion, in order to make
the proceedings seem like a game and not too much of an
ordeal for a child.
It followed, unfortunately, that as it was impossible strictly
to control all the experimenters, the evidence for telepathy in
the successful cases was inadequate. There were not many
successes, and most of them occurred after several wrong
guesses had been made and, the experiment being considered
over, the drawing was carelessly held or laid down and for-
)tten. It thus happened that chances were given Amy of
iing what the pictures were, and of these chances she very
fully availed herself.
A few successes, indeed, occurred when it was thought that
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN.,1914.
the precautions against normal vision were adequate, though
the proceedings were still somewhat informal in character.
But these successes were not numerous enough, nor was our
confidence in the precautions taken strong enough, to warrant
any clear conclusions in favour of telepathy.
Still more discouraging was it to observe that as the con-
ditions became more strict, the successes diminished. Amy
showed herself very unwilling to submit to the conditions
proposed ;
she would not, for instance, sit still, but was con-
stantly finding excuses to get up and walk about the room,
which made it more difficult to keep the drawings hidden
from her. After four days' experiments, during which a number
of cases of cheating had been actually observed, besides those
in which there was ground for suspecting cheating ;
after also
it had been made abundantly clear that Amy was deliber-
ately and constantly trying to circumvent all precautions that
were taken against such cheating ;
and after E. F. had carefully
indicated to Amy his suspicions suspicions of which she then
flatly denied the justification and begged her to amend her
ways ;
a single series of experiments, at which E. F. himself was
not present, were tried, in some of which opportunities were
purposely given her for seeing the drawings used, whilst in
others they were carefully guarded, in order to see whether
any correct impressions would be obtained otherwise than by
normal vision.
When a drawing is held up with its back to an observer,
there are two possible ways of his seeing it :
(a) by reflection,
as mentioned above ; (b) by the transparency of the paper.
Most white paper, though it looks opaque, can be seen through
more or less easily from behind if held up with a fairly
bright light in front of it ;
and it had been noticed several
times that Amy had guessed a drawing inadvertently held up
in this way with its back to her.
Two sets of drawings, accordingly, were used, one on white
paper and the other on black paper, which is absolutely
opaque to light rays. With these two sets a series of forty
experiments were tried under varying conditions. In some
cases the paper, whether black or white, was completely
screened from Amy's view ;
in other cases a drawing on
black paper was held up in such a way that, though ostensibly
.j\.\., 1914. Some Experiment* i />
ThougJtirTransference.
screened, she could see the back of it; and in the remaining
cases, a drawing on white paper was similarly held up.
In order to give a chance for telepathic percipience on her
part, the persons chosen for agents were Mr. Baggally, who
had previously had some success with her, and Miss Newton,
who has sometimes been successful with other percipients. In
this series, not a single success was obtained except when the
lira
wings on white paper were held up so that she could see
through them, and in almost every case she gave these correctly.
When asked whether she could see anything of them, she
declared positively that she could not. Later on, when E. R
again told her that we had found her cheating, she at first
denied it, but afterwards confessed that she had done so, and
that she had been in the habit of doing it for, she stated,
about a month before she came to London.
Subsequently to this, yet another series of experiments was
conducted by E. F. under the conditions which Amy said she
preferred, namely, an informal gathering of many persons, each
making drawings, with, however, careful supervision to ensure
that she could get no normal vision of any of these, and not
one single success was obtained.
In regard to the bearing of the London experiments on
previous ones, it is to be noted that Sir Oliver Lodge, in his
own experiments recorded in the Journal for July, 1913,
thought not only of spectacles, but even of the cornea as a
reflecting agent, and he himself does not wear glasses, so that
Amy's successes with him could not be due to her seeing
reflections. He also, of course, guarded against other normal
means of seeing, such as she contrived to use in the London
experiments, and nevertheless had a considerable amount of
success.
The history as a whole suggests that Amy had, and perhaps
still has, some genuine telepathic faculty ;
but that the desire
to appear interesting and important, encouraged by the loose
methods of experimenting used in her own home, led to a habit
of cheating and general untruthfulness, which probably tends to
inhibit the telepathic power. In view, however, of the suc-
cesses of Sir Oliver Lodge and Mr. Baggally, it is hoped that
opportunities of further experiments with her may be found
later.
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1914.
REPORT ON EXPERIMENTS WITH "AMY JOYCE."
BY W. W. BAGGALLY.
SIR OLIVER LODGE sent me a preliminary Report of some
experiments in telepathy which he had tried with "
Amy
Joyce," an account of which subsequently appeared in the
Journal for July, 1913. I had an interview with Sir Oliver
respecting these experiments, and I expressed a wish to see
the child myself. Sir Oliver kindly wrote to her father who
consented that I should test his daughter's telepathic powers.
I therefore on July 27, 1913, went to Mr. Joyce's house
and stayed there two days. On Oct. 21, 1913, I paid a
visit to Mr. Feilding in London and remained at his house
four days while Amy Joyce was there. During this time I
practically had charge of the girl, as Mr. Feilding, owing to
business engagements, was frequently absent from home. After
my visit to Mr. Feilding, I brought the girl to Brighton
and she stayed in my home three days. I therefore had a
good opportunity of studying her character, and of trying
experiments with her. I found that she took every opportunity
of gaining knowledge of the object experimented with by normal
means, such as by reflection from the surface of spectacles
worn by the agent (as when her father tried the experiments
which I witnessed), or from the surface of the glass of a window
behind the agent, or from any reflecting surface ;
or by a rapid
glance at the number, diagram, or card used for the experiment,
when such number, diagram or card, was momentarily visible
to her through being inadvertently held partly sideways by the
agent, or through being placed on the table at the con-
clusion of an experiment (in which case Amy would, apparently,
get a good result in
"
deferred telepathy ") ;
or through
the number, diagram, or nature of the card being seen trans-
parently when the agent sat with his back to a window through
which light was shining.
Notwithstanding that in many of the experiments that I
witnessed the girl resorted to the above means of gaining
normal knowledge of the object experimented with, I am of
opinion that in some experiments which I personally conducted,
and in which I took precautions that she should not be able
to resort to the above methods, there were indications that
JAN., 1914.
Report on Experiments with "Amy Juf/<'<.
she possessed telepathic powers. I may say that I do not
wear spectacles, and that in some of my experiments I wore
a felt hat which covered my eyes, so that there should not be
any reflection in the cornea of my eyes. I also took the
precaution, when trying experiments with cards, that the whole
pack should be behind the card chosen by me so that it
could not be seen transparently ;
and I took care that no
window or reflecting surface should be behind me. The cards
that I used (my own pack) were exceptionally thick, so that
their nature could not be seen transparently.
I will proceed to give an account of some of my experi-
ments. On the occasion which I now describe, and which took
place at Mr. Feilding's house on Oct. 23, 1913, Amy sat at
one end of the room and I at the other. Mr. Murray Davey,
a friend of Mr. Feilding's, who had not met Amy before, sat at
the other side of the room from me, but not close to her.
Neither he nor Amy could see my cards. The day was dark ;
the window of the room was on my right side (not behind me);
I held the pack of cards close to me ;
therefore each of the
cards in front of the pack with which I experimented was
badly illumined.
The whole series of experiments with cards tried by me on
this occasion was as follows :
Cards chosen
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN., 1914.
I here asked Mr. Murray Davey to try to impress Amy
simultaneously with me. The card was chosen by me and
held by me, Mr. Murray Davey coming to my side to look
at it, with the following results :
Card chosen
JAK., 1914. Report on Experiment* with "Amy Joyce." 171
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1914.
she had hit on two of the numbers, but I did nob tell
her which they were, nor in what position. The gradual
approach to correctness in her guesses seemed to me
curious ;
her last figure, 6, had some resemblance to my
last figure, 0.
(2) I then asked her to go into the dining-room, while I
remained in the drawing-room. Under these conditions,
while she was out of sight :
I wrote down the number 333 ; Amy guessed (a) 94*7 ;
(&) 642.
(3) Under the same conditions as above :
I wrote down the number 532 ; Amy guessed 432.
Then she called out from the dining-room that she found
the experiment difficult under these conditions, and returned to
the drawing-room.
The following experiments with numbers, which I carried
out in Mr. Feilding's house, appear to indicate deferred tele-
pathy. Amy had asked me previously the number of digits I
was to experiment with. I replied, one digit. Lucky chance
guessing cannot therefore be eliminated. A deferred success
for purposes of chance calculation was in this case equivalent
to a second guess, i.e. it gave a double chance of guessing
right. The double chance was 2 in 9, whereas we have here
3 successes in 6. The result, to say the least, was curious.
I drew the numbers in a thick pocket-book held vertically
with its back to Amy, taking care that the movement of my
hand should not indicate what I was drawing. There were
no reflecting surfaces behind me, and the girl was on one
side of the room and I on the other.
Numbers drawn
JAN., 1914. Report on Experiment* with "
Amy Joyce" I.-!
drawn at my house in Brighton a series of numbers of several
digits in a pocket-book which I kept in my breast-pocket.
The leaf on which I had drawn the numbers was folded over
several times, so that if, by mischance, I should open the
pocket-book at this page in the presence of any one close to
me, the numbers could not be seen.
I asked Amy if she could get one of the numbers which
I had written in this pocket-book. She said she would try.
I thereupon retired to a distance from her, unfolded the page
with the numbers, and told her I had chosen one. She
asked me the number of digits. I replied, three. I took care
that the book was held by me so that it was not possible
for her to see what the number was, and there was na
reflecting surface behind me. The window of the room (the
dining-room) was behind her.
The number I looked at and which I endeavoured to
impress telepathically on her was 681.
She asked,
"
Does it start with 5 ? Does it start with
1 ?
"
I said to her that she was not trying the experiment
properly, but merely guessing. She then said she would try
to get the number by deferred telepathy. I then put the
pocket-book in my breast-pocket, where it remained, and we
proceeded to try other experiments.
In about an hour's time, Amy said the number I had
chosen was 684, then that it was 681.
As the pocket-book had remained the whole time in my
pocket, I am of opinion that this was a case of genuine
telepathy. I think it desirable that further experiments should
be carried out with Amy Joyce.
i
NOTE ON THE EXPERIMENTS WITH "AMY JOYCE."
BY J. ARTHUR HILL.
MY knowledge of the "Amy Joyce" case began in March, 1913,
when I replied on Sir Oliver Lodge's behalf to a letter sent
him by Mr. Joyce, describing his daughter's apparent powers.
A good deal of correspondence resulted, and on April 5, 1913,
my friend, Mr. Percy Lund, kindly went to the Joyces', at their
invitation, for an afternoon's experimentation. Before going,
he discussed with me various evidential requirements, and I
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1914.
particularly emphasized the possibilities of reflections of various
kinds, which of course may be observed subliminally and
without any conscious attempt at deception on the part of the
percipient.
Mr. Lurid found that Mr. Joyce wore spectacles, in which
reflections were visible ;
and he demonstrated this to Mr.
Joyce by
"
guessing" several cards held by the latter, to his
great astonishment. (Amy, however, continued to do equally
well when Mr. Joyce took his glasses off.) Mr. Lund found
that he could see enough of the reflections, from a distance-
of a few feet, to enable him to name about three out of four
correctly. He explained this to Mr. Joyce, who, however,
apparently forgot about it before the London experiments
began.
Mr. Lund (who does not wear glasses) found that Amy
correctly named cards held by himself, and not seen by
Mr. Joyce, to an extent far beyond what chance would account
for ;
sometimes she would name six or seven successively,
with the greatest rapidity ;
then she would seem at a loss, the
power coming in bursts, so to speak. She was also extremely
successful in reproducing drawings a square, a circle, a
six-pointed star, a Maltese and an ordinary cross, and a triangle
which he drew at one end of the room, while she remained
at the other. He is quite sure that she had no normal
vision either of the drawings or of the movements of his hand,
either directly or in reflections. To him, therefore, these
reproductions, added to those card-readings which were done
under good conditions, with his own pack of cards, seemed
conclusive evidence for some supernormal faculty on the
part of Amy Joyce.
Mr. Lund's report, from which I copy most of the above
details, was sent to Sir Oliver Lodge, and I also informed him
fully of what Mr. Lund told me verbally about the reflections.
To this statement Mr. Lund adds the following note :
"
The above, so far as it concerns me, is correct."
(Signed) PERCY LUND.
57 Southfield Square, Manningham, Bradford.
[Note. It was subsequent to receiving this information
that Sir Oliver Lodge went to for his interview with
JAN., UU4. Note on Experiments with "Amy Joyce" 175
Mi. Joyce and the child. I have seen a letter from Mr. Hill
to Sir Oliver, dated April 29, 1913, in which he explains the
precautions taken by Mr. Lund against reflections, as stated
above. It was on May 17, 1913, that Sir Oliver Lodge
conducted his experiments at ,
as reported in the July
Journal. He is satisfied that successes were obtained without
normal seeing of any kind. A. J.]
OBITUAKV.
THE REV. J. W. BARLOW, S.F. T.C.D.
WE regret that, owing to the intervention of the summer
holidays, a notice of the death of a distinguished member of our
Society, the Rev. J. W. Barlow, Senior Fellow of Trinity College,
Dublin, has not hitherto appeared in the Journal. James
William Barlow was born October 21, 1826, and died
July 4, 1913; he became a Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin,
in 1850, and was Vice-Provost at the time of his resignation
in 1908. His earliest studies were chiefly mathematical, and
Sir William Rowan Hamilton taught him his famous theory of
quaternions ;
but he was widely read in both Ancient and
Modern Literature, and deeply interested in various branches of
Science. The range and depth of his knowledge were indeed
prodigious, and it is no small tribute to the work of Psychical
Research that so profound and acute a thinker should have
become a warm adherent of our Society ; nearly twenty years ago
he became a member, and was elected the h'rst Vice-President
of the Dublin section of the S.P.R., a position he retained to
the time of his death. In this he was warmly supported by
his distinguished daughter, Miss Jane Barlow, D.Litt., whose
literary eminence is so widely recognized. Mr. Myers's great
work on Human Personality deeply impressed Mr. Barlow, and
he brought it under the notice of Dr. J. P. Mahaffy, who
included a considerable portion of this work in the Dublin
University Fellowship Course the earliest official recognition by a
famous, and indeed conservative, University of Psychical Research
as a branch of science. In this connection we may here record
the interesting fact that Dr. J. P. Mahafty, S.F. T.C.D., the present
Vice-Provost of Trinity College, Dublin, has consented to take
Mr. Barlow's place as Vice-President of the Dublin section of
our Society.
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JAN., 1914.
For many years Professor Barlow occupied the chair of
Modern History in the University of Dublin, and he published
several philosophical and historical works. Among others
were his lectures on Mediaeval Italy and The Normans in
Italy, and a brilliant and learned work on The Ultimatum of
Pessimism, an ethical study which is widely known. Earlier
in life he incurred much ecclesiastical censure for his fearless
advocacy of broader theological views. His volume on Escha-
tology, published in 1865, excited much controversy at the time
for its bold denial of the current, and as he maintained, unscrip-
tural doctrine of eternal punishment. His latest work was a
remarkable little philosophical romance called The Immortal's
Quest, at first printed for private circulation, but afterwards
published with the author's name.
Like Edmund Gurney in his wide range of learning, Mr.
Barlow also resembled Gurney in his fondness for music, and
found his chief recreation in the organ, on which he was a
skilful performer, enjoying especially Handel's music.
It would be a great gain to Psychical Eesearch if Miss Jane
Barlow, who is a valued member of our Committee of Refer-
ence and Publication, and who had the most intimate knowledge
of her father's views, were to give us the results of the
critical study which both she and her father made of the
Proceedings of our Society.
W. F. B.
SIR OLIVER LODGE'S PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
TO THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION.
WE think that many of our members may like to know
that Sir Oliver Lodge's Presidential Address, selections from
which appeared in the Journal for November, 1913, has now
been published in full by Messrs. Dent & Sons (Aldine House,
Bedford and Chandos Streets, London, W.C.) in a convenient
little volume, price Is. net. The interest of the Address is
heightened by the addition of 14 pp. of explanatory notes.
ISSUE OF PROCEEDINGS.
PART LXVIIL of the Proceedings is now nearly ready to appear
and will be issued with the February Journal.
N... UCCVL VOL. XVI. ,, 1914.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CONTENTS.
PAGE
A Telepathic Impression of the "Volturno" Disaster, - -
177
\. .to nn Current Periodicals, 192
A TELEPATHIC IMPRESSION OF THE "
VOLTURXO "
DISASTER.
SINCE the evidence in this case is somewhat voluminous, it is
prefaced, for the convenience of the reader, by a brief account
of the
"
Volturno
"
disaster, summarised from the reports that
appeared in the daily papers from October 11 to October 17,
1913, and the subsequent Board of Trade enquiry.
The steamship
"
Volturno
"
was a British-owned boat, let on
charter to the Uranium Steamship Company, of Rotterdam,
which was carrying passengers, mostly emigrants in the steerage,
from Rotterdam to New York via Halifax, with 657 persons
on board. It caught tire in mid-Atlantic at about 6.30 on
Thursday morning, October 9, 1913, and three explosions
shortly followed. Wireless messages sent out for help were
received by the Cunard liner
"
Carmania
"
at 10 A.M. on
Thursday. The "
Carmania," steaming at full speed to the
scene, arrived at 2.30 P.M., and put out a boat, which tried
in vain for two hours to get alongside of the
"
Volturno,"
being prevented by the gale and terrific sea. The "
Volturno
"
had already lowered two boats, carrying about 100 passengers,
which had been lost. Later in the afternoon other liners who
had received the wireless calls arrived, and also made a
number of vain attempts, by putting off boats, to rescue the
passengers. At about 9 P.M. the flames on the
"
Volturno
"
burst through amidships and there was another big explosion.
The fire went on raging all through the night, several members
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1914.
of the crew being, as was stated in the first reports, burnt
alive. Fortunately the gale gradually went down, and early
in the morning of Friday it became possible for the ships
which had been standing by all night to launch their boats
again and take off the survivors. The "
Volturno
"
was aban-
doned at 10.44 A.M. on Friday. Some of the earlier messages
stated that as many as 80 or 90 persons had been burnt
alive ;
but this was clearly a great exaggeration, since the
total death-roll was about 136, of whom it seems probable
that at least 100 were drowned. At the Board of Trade
enquiry, it was said that four men were burnt in the fore-
castle.
The disaster took place in lat. 4 8 '2 5, long. 34'33. The
time at this longitude is about 2 hrs. 20 mins. earlier than
Greenwich time.
The news was sent to England by wireless messages, which
reached the station at Fishguard at 5.50 A.M.1
on Saturday,
October 11, was re-telegraphed over the Post Office wires to
the G.P.O., and then sent to the press. Consequently it was
not received in time to appear in any of the morning papers,
but appeared first in the early afternoon papers of October 11,
1913.
It happened that on the evening of Thursday, October 9,
Mrs. Claude Askew, who is an Associate of the S.P.E., was
having a seance with some friends who were staying at
her house, and two days later she wrote to Mr. Feilding as
follows :
BOTCHES, WIVELSFIELD GREEN,
HAYWARDS HEATH, October llth, [1913].
. . . Last Thursday night Miss Watson, Miss Scott, Miss Gibbons,
Claude, and myself sat in my bedroom. We had a most interesting
seance. Knocks came freely, also a loud whistle, and feet could be
seen passing outside the door; in fact, the whole seance was so
good that we all arranged to meet here again on Saturday week
and ask you down. But in the middle of the seance a strange
thing happened ;
we heard the sound of dripping water, followed
by the smell of burning. We can all swear to this, and Miss Scott
suddenly exclaimed that a ship was burning on the sea, and pas-
sengers getting burnt and drowned. This we can all testify to.
J
See The Evening News of Saturday, Oct. 11, 1913.
i KI , 1914.
Telepathic Impression of" Voltumo" Disaster. I , :
She was most positive that a ship was on fire, and the smell of
burning in the room was horrible, and now we learn that the poor
" Volturno
"
must have been on fire at that time. The whole seance
was most nerve-racking. Can you come down on Saturday, the
2/ith, for our next stance? The same people will sit again, for
we never had one like it before. I enclose you [Miss Scott's] tele-
gram just received. I expect she feels as upset as I do, for the
coincidence was extraordinary, if it was only a coincidence. I
am writing straight to you, for I know how interested you will
be. ... ALICE ASKEW.
The telegram, which is now iii our possession, was as
follows :
WATERLOO. Handed in at 12.57 p.m. Received here at 1.56 p.m.
Office stamp,
" Wivelsfield Green, Oc. 11, '13."
To Askew, Wivelsfield Green, Sussex.
Fire on liner with loss life just reported remember seance.
JOSE.
Mrs. Askew wrote later to Mr. Feilding :
BOTCHES, WIVELSFIELD GREEN,
HAYWARDS HEATH, October 13th, 1913.
. . . The more I think over our experience of Thursday night,
the more impressed I feel. It was really most extraordinary, wasn't
First of all the manifestations had never been so loud or so
violent, [or] so distinct; also the sound of dripping water was un-
listakeable, and the smell of burning was so bad that we really
lought there must be something on fire downstairs ;
the whole
>om was full of it. We all smelt fire except Claude, but then he
no nose and can't even smell a lamp when it is turned up too
ligh.
Miss Scott, Miss Watson, Miss Gibbons and myself all smelt what
jemed like charred wood, and also heard the water dripping, and
>ur times during the seance Miss Scott exclaimed that a ship was
burning at sea and that people were being drowned. She declared
that she could see hands stretched out imploring help, and at last
re all cried out that the smell was like that of burning flesh, and
re felt quite sick, I can assure you. ... It was profoundly in-
teresting at the time, but now it seems simply extraordinary, for
ist at the time that Miss Scott was exclaiming that a ship was
m fire and people being drowned, the unfortunate people must
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1914.
have been flinging themselves into the water. We sat from half
past nine till about ten minutes past twelve. . . .
Mr. Feilding then sent a series of questions to Mrs. Askew,
asking that she and Mr. Askew should write answers to
them without comparing notes, and send him their independent
statements. In accordance with this request, they wrote to
him :
(Statement by Mrs. Askew.)
October 16th, 1913.
(1) As far as I can recollect, I was the first person to detect a
disagreeable smell in the room in which we were all sitting Miss
Watson, Miss Jose Scott, Miss Beryl Gibbons, myself and my
husband. As the smell grew stronger we all decided that it was
unquestionably the smell of something burning. It appeared to be
all over the room, and it was so acute that we decided in the
middle of the seance that before going to bed my husband must
make a thorough investigation in the rooms downstairs, in case
anything should be on fire.
(2) I heard a curious little sound like the loud ticking of a watch
first of all, and called the attention of the sitters to the sound, and
presently the sound seemed to grow louder and was like the
dripping of water. We all heard this.
(3) The sounds which appeared to be abnormal which we heard
during the seance came in the following order. A loud pop which
sounded like a cork going off. But this might have been a bottle
exploding, for I afterwards found a shattered bottle in my bathroom,
but the cork was still in the bottle, it had only fallen to the ground.
A distinct and heavy crash downstairs in the kitchen (no servants
were there, for they had all gone to bed) a crash which was not
unlike a heavy clap of thunder; also a loud whistle. Various raps,
more or less distinct, in various parts of the room, also on the
table. Curious floating lights, the apparent appearance of a small
dog, the heavy shaking of the folds of a cover on a sofa, this was
observed several times by Miss Jose Scott and myself. Feet were
distinctly seen under the chink of the door, passing backwards and
forwards outside. We also heard the sound of some one coming
heavily upstairs and entering my husband's dressing-room, at a time
when he himself was downstairs. This we all heard, and Miss
Beryl Gibbons got up from her seat and walked into my husband's
dressing-room to see if he was there, but found no one. In the
1914.
Telepathic Impression of" Volturno" Disaster. l>sl
middle of the seance I left the circle and walked down a long
passage to enquire how a friend of ours was who was sleeping in
the house, and as I came back I could distinctly hear footsteps
following me, and I also smelt the smell of burning more acutely
than ever. When I entered the room in which we were sitting,
Miss Beryl Gibbons told me that she thought she saw some one
standing behind me, a tali figure dressed in black. During the
whole of the seance I was conscious, for my part, of the acute
smell of burning and the sound of dripping water.
(4) During the middle of the stance Miss Jose' Scott suddenly
exclaimed with great agitation that she was convinced that a ship
was on fire and that a number of people were being drowned.
She said she could see hands held up the hands of drowning
people. The smell of burning was peculiarly strong in the room
whilst she said this, and so was the sound of the lapping water,
and she repeated the statement again a little later on, asserting that
she was positive that a ship was on fire at that very moment and
that we should soon hear of some colossal disaster at sea. No state-
ment could have been made more positively. There was no hesitation
about it; Miss Jos6 Scott affirmed it as a fact.
(5) We sat from half past ten at night till about a quarter past
twelve. ALICE ASKEW.
(Statement by Mr. Askew.)
BOTCHES, WIVELSFIELD GREEN,
SUSSEX, October 16th, 1913.
Here are my answers to the questions you put. It was certainly
a curious experience, as I take it the ship was burning all that
Thursday night, and Miss Scott certainly did foretell a disaster at
sea by fire and drowning. I am not so sure that Alice spoke of a
ship, but she smelt the burning and heard the water. They were
all agreed as to the burning and the water, except myself, who did
not get either of these impressions. The whistle I have spoken
>ut was really rather curious, as it sounded in the room, and at
that time of night there was nobody about to make such a noise.
However, of course, that is a detail in comparison to the fore-
telling of the wreck !
(1) and (2) Personally, I cannot say that I either smelt burning
or heard the dripping of water. I think Alice and Miss Scott were
the first to refer to these sensations. They said it was 'something
nasty
'
burning. I suggested that what they took for the dripping
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1914.
of water was the noise of the petrol air-gas machine, but they said
it was something quite different. So strong was the impression of
burning that I was requested to go round the house to see that
there was nothing amiss. I did so, and found nothing to account
for any smell of burning.
(3) The impression of water and burning went on more or less
all the while we were sitting, and other things happened in the
intervals of remarks upon these two subjects. The table was very
active, and we got some fairly well-defined knocks. We asked for
manifestations apart from the table and were asked to wait, sitting
quietly. We did so, and presently there came a sound like a cork
being blown out of a bottle : it seemed to come from the yard and
I believe it was a normal sound, though I failed to find any cause
for it on a later inspection of the kitchen, etc. We then asked for
another manifestation, and after a minute or two several of us,
myself included, distinctly heard a light whistle, which seemed to
come from somewhere within the room. I thought this curious, and
we could not account for it. Another thing was that I heard the
ticking of a watch on the dressing table, though there was no watch
there. When I sat upright at the seance table I could no longer
hear it. I was wearing a watch on my left wrist, but the sound
came when I leaned far over to the right. The whistle, however,
was certainly the most curious impression that I personally received.
(4) I think Miss Scott was the first to speak of a ship on fire;
my wife may have done so as well. They both agreed they could
see people drowning, "the tips of their fingers sticking out of the
water." Then Miss Scott said :
"
We shall hear of a disaster at sea."
I am certain that she made use of words to this effect, and that she
implied the disaster would be through fire and water. . . .
Other sitters may have had other impressions, but these are all
that I can personally answer for. CLAUDE ASKEW.
In answer to further questions from Miss Johnson, in par-
ticular whether any incident had ever happened before at any
of their sittings which they thought at the time, or had
reason to think afterwards, was connected with any contem-
porary event, Mrs. Askew wrote :
October 20, 1913.
All the ladies who sat with us on Thursday night were personal
friends of mine ;
it was the first time Miss Beryl Gibbons had ever
sat at a seance. We have no particular form of procedure at any
an
wi
Al
KKI; ,
p.m. Ti'lt
/mthic Impression of" Volturno" Disaster.
of the seances we have at home. We just sit round a small table,
joining hands. Sometimes there is a light in the room, sometimes
there is no light.
We have never before had reason to think that any incident
happening at our seances has been connected with some contem-
porary event.
On the evening of Thursday, October 9th, we were sitting in my
bedroom, and there was a fire in the room, so we were not in the
dark. I may as well add here, in case any one should fancy that
the smell of burning came from the fire, that when we entered the
room at the beginning of the seance and proceeded to take our
places round the table, there was no smell of burning of any sort
in the room, nor did we smell burning for at least a quarter of an
hour, and nothing was put on the fire from the beginning of the
2ance till the end.
The door of my bedroom is a very old-fashioned one, for Botches
was originally a sixteenth century farmhouse, which we have very
much enlarged and built on to, and there is quite a wide chink at
the bottom of the door. My husband was not in the room during
the time we all saw the feet passing backwards and forwards. He
had gone downstairs to see if there was anything on fire that might
possibly account for the strong smell of burning, or if any of our
old beams were smouldering, and Miss Gibbons got up and opened
the door to see if any person was walking about, but found no
one.
The friend who was sleeping in the house does not walk in his
sleep. He was awake during the earlier part of the seance reading,
and when I went to his room to ask him if he had heard any
sounds I found him fast asleep. The servants sleeping in the house
were my maid, our cook and kitchenmaid, the housemaid and parlour-
maid. My maid sleeps in the room next to my small daughter, and
the other servants sleep upstairs. It would have been impossible for
y of the servants sleeping upstairs to have descended the stairs
without our hearing them, for the staircase is
very old and creaky.
Also my parlourmaid, who has been with me for over eleven years,
assures me that no one left their bedrooms. All the servants were
exceedingly tired, owing to the fact that we had been having a
large party the night before, and they had no reason to suppose
that we were sitting that night. My maid could not have left her
room without our hearing her, and my little daughter, who is a very
light sleeper, would have woke up at once. My maid has been with
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1914.
us for over twelve years, and she is a person in whom one can place
the utmost reliance.
As far as I know, none of our party had ever been in a shipping
accident or taken any interest in such, nor had we any friends or
relatives upon the seas. The question of a voyage had not been
mentioned that evening by any one, as far as I can remember, nor
had we been discussing accidents or shipwrecks. Till we went up
to sit in my bedroom we were talking principally about the enter-
tainment we had given the night before in aid of the funds of the
Village Hall, which has recently been erected in Wivelsfield village,
and the party at our house that had followed the entertainment on
Wednesday evening, so our thoughts had been directed the whole
of that evening far from shipwrecks or any sort of calamity. We
had been laughing over the various incidents connected with the
entertainment.
ALICE ASKEW.
Mr. Feilding's questions had meanwhile been sent to Miss
Gibbons, who wrote to him as follows :
October 17th, [1913].
I will try and write exactly what happened at the seance we had
at the As"kews' last Thursday night. I don't think any one smelt
burning for about half an hour after we started sitting, then Mrs.
Askew asked us if we noticed it, and we all had ;
it was not an
ordinary burning smell, but very strong and disagreeable ;
at least,
I thought so. I couldn't say where it came from, but it seemed
strongest in the Askews' room, although it was quite noticeable in
the passage outside.
I don't remember who first heard the water running ;
it sounded
like a river to me, not water dripping. Sometimes it seemed quite
loud and then almost died away. I don't know where it came
from; it was all over the Askews' room, but I didn't hear it
outside.
We all heard it, and felt gusts of cold air, and several times I
felt something touch my neck and hands. The table kept tapping;
so we asked for some outward sign, which it tapped it would give
us. We waited for about a minute and there was a noise outside
like a bottle bursting, and a door downstairs slammed. There was
no bottle outside and all the servants had gone to bed. We asked
for another sign, and about a minute afterwards we all heard two
distinct whistles, which seemed to come from the fireplace. After
inn. Tt'l'-i'nthti- /nijyressionof" Volturno" Disaster. 185
that Mr. Askew went downstairs to see if something was on fire,
as the smell of burning was so strong, and the rest of us all saw
feet walking up and down outside the door, and we all saw blue
lights which lasted for about two or three minutes. Then we turned
the lights on and waited for Mr. Askew, whom we thought we
heard coming upstairs twice before he really did. When he did
come we sat again, and Miss Scott went off into a trance ; when
she came round she said, "There is a ship burning, and people are
holding out their hands for help." She said she could see the
hands over the Askews' bed, but while she was in the trance she
never spoke.
After that we ended, and Mr. and Mrs. Askew went downstairs
to fetch drinks and biscuits. Again we heard footsteps coming
upstairs twice before they really came. When Mrs. Askew walked
upstairs, I was standing at her door, and I distinctly saw [some one]
whom I thought to be her maid ;
in fact, I was just going to speak
to her, but there was no one there. . . . BERYL GIBBONS.
In reply to a request from Mr. Feilding, Miss Scott sent
him the following account, adding
"
Here is my account as
accurately as I can remember, but the fire scene took up my
attention so much that I cannot be certain that everything
else is in its right order."
IARDELEY
BURY, STEVENAGE,
Monday, Oct. 20th [1913].
ccount of Stance at Botches on Thursday night, Oct. 9th [1913]
The seance took place in Mrs. Askew's bedroom between about 11
and 1 on Thursday night. There were five of us Mrs. Askew,
Miss Watson, Miss Gibbons, Mr. Askew and myself. We used a
small round table to start things with, and very quickly got it
moving. It said it had a message for Miss Gibbons, and then gave
"
Warning Low "
and refused to continue. I think we all felt very
strong currents of icy air, though a fire was burning directly behind us.
Miss Watson then said she noticed a strong smell of burning, and
we all did too. It became stronger, and I said it was burning paint
and wood the same smell that I had once before smelt, when I
had been by a burnt stable and cottage the smell of burning human
belongings. I can't describe it better than that. Then I heard
water, most distinctly, and the others heard it, though no two of
heard it in the same way. One said it was water dripping,
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB.,1914.
another rushing like a river, and Miss Watson said that she thought
perhaps the house had once been burned and we heard the water
poured on to it. I did not hear it like that, however; I heard the
sea, very stormy, beating against something, ceaselessly, and I said
so. I think I said then that it was a ship on fire in a storm.
Meanwhile the table began moving again, and it promised to give
us a definite manifestation that we could all hear outside the room,
before midnight. At two minutes to 12 we all heard a loud report
more like a very large cork being drawn out of a very large
bottle than anything. Then four of us heard a short loud peal of
thunder, and three of them heard a low distinct whistle, two
short sounds, they said.
The smell of burning had become so strong that Mr. Askew went
down to see if anything was burning. He was away some minutes,
the lights being full on in the room meanwhile. We all heard
steps coming upstairs twice, and thought it was him returning, but
at neither time did he come. Then Mrs. Askew went out of the
room to take one of the dogs away for the night.
When we heard her coming back Miss Gibbons went to the door
to see if it really was some one this time, and saw Mrs. Askew
coming, followed by a tall woman in black. Thinking it was Mrs.
Askew's maid, she was about to speak to her, when she realised
that no one was really there except Mrs. Askew. Mr. Askew then
<:ame back, and we sat round the table again. I don't remember
much of what happened then, as I think I went into a short
trance, or sleep. Anyway, I had a very vivid impression of a
burning ship in a storm, and a great crowd of people, all stretching
out their hands for help. And I knew that there was help near,
though for some reason or other it could not reach them. I think
I described this quite fully to them ;
and evidently insisted on the
hands stretched out for help, because Miss Watson kept saying :
" How horrible ! Don't go on saying that." All the time I saw
fire, and heard the sea dashing against the ship, and I saw hands
everywhere, especially vividly. I don't remember much else, except
that before we broke up I said :
" I am quite certain that we shall
hear of a burning ship, and great loss of life during the next few
days."
I went to London on Friday; and on Saturday morning I went
out in a great hurry, not having seen the paper, and saw on a
newsboard outside Baron's Court Station :
"
Liner on fire in storm.
Great loss of life."
FKI:., 1914.
Telepathic Impression of" Voltumo" Disaster. 187
I was on my way to Waterloo then, and I wired to Mrs. Askew
at about 1 o'clock, just before my train left :
"
Reported liner on
fire. Loss of life. Remember seance. Jose."
I think this is correct in the main facts, though I may have put
the details in the wrong order; but latterly I did not notice
much ;
the smell of burning, the dashing of waves, and the hands
asking for help filled my attention completely, and the trance made
me very sleepy. JOSEPHINE SCOTT.
P.S. We all saw lights at various times, but there was a fire
in the room, though very low burning.
I wired to Mrs. Askew about the fire, because I saw the placard
on an Evening News board, and not having seen the morning paper, did
not realise that it would have been in that. 1
I thought it had only
just been wired in. I know about the Evening News, because I
know the man who held the board well, and he is the man who
sells only the Evening News.
The remaining witness, Miss Watson, gave a detailed verbal
account of the stance to Miss Johnson and Mr. Feilding on
the morning of October 19, 1913, and afterwards wrote it
out, as follows :
LYCEUM CLUB, November 20th, 1913.
t(The
following is based on notes taken down in shorthand by
e Hon. Everard Feilding's secretary, on October 19th, when the
story of the seance was being narrated by me to Miss Johnson
and Mr. Feilding. I am not certain as to the exact sequence of
the events.)
On October 9th [1913] I was staying with Mr. and Mrs. Claude
Askew in their house at Wivelsfield Green. It was suggested that
we should try and hold a seance. As nearly as I can remember,
at about 11 p.m., Mr. and Mrs. Askew, Miss Scott, Miss Gibbons,
and I went into Mrs. Askew's bedroom, and sat round, with our
hands on, a small table. There was a fire in the room but no
other light. The fire was low.
Shortly after we sat down the table started tilting. Mr. Askew
asked if there was a message for any one present, and spelt the
alphabet. I think the table replied by tilts that the message was
for Miss Gibbons, but the letters which followed did not seem to
spell any sense, so Mr. Askew ceased saying the alphabet.
*As a matter of fact, the first news appeared in the evening papers of that
day. ED.
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1914.
Presently there was a strong and most disagreeable smell of burn-
ing in the room. I believe I was the first person who noticed and
mentioned it. Then there came a distinct sound of water ;
to me it
sounded like water continually dripping. I think we all smelt the
burning and heard the water. Mr. Askew suggested the latter
might be the noise of the petrol gas. The rest of us did not agree,,
but said we would listen to the gas when the seance was over and
see if the noise was the same, which we did, and all agreed that
it was utterly different.
There came flashes of light in the room ;
those which I saw were
against the door, and appeared as if a candle or a match with
a very long flame had suddenly been lit. I should think the
streaks of light were about 2 ft. in length ; they were not per-
pendicular, but horizontal, going across the door. I had my back
to the fire, so each time I saw the flash I turned to see if it
could be the fire flickering, but it was not, the fire was very low,
almost embers. Mr. Askew had his back to the door, and I am
not sure that he saw any lights. The others did, but I do not
think we all saw the same lights, or at the same time, as we
exclaimed at different times and did not describe what we were
seeing in exactly the same way.
I also saw a different sort of light upon the wall, but I am not
sure that this was not a reflection from the gas in the passage
outside coming through the crack under the door. It was impossible
that the lights which I have described above could have been this,
as I saw them upon the door.
The smell of burning became stronger. I said it smelt like
burnt leather, when Miss Scott suddenly exclaimed,
"
It's nothing
of the sort, it is
burning flesh, it is a ship on fire at sea; I
can see the whole thing, and the people holding up their hands
trying to be saved." She asked Mrs. Askew to look towards the
end of the bed and see if she could not also see it. Mrs. Askew
looked, but I do not think saw anything. From that moment
Miss Scott persisted that she saw a ship on fire, and that was the
cause of the burning and the sound of the water. She said she
was certain we would hear of a liner being on fire. At last I
begged her to desist, it was becoming so horrible.
The table had been tilting and rapping, but nothing further.
Mr. Askew asked if we could have some other phenomenon. It
answered " Yes
"
(by three tilts) ;
it was asked where this would
take place, and I think it answered, "Outside." It was asked
FEB., ion. Telepathic Impression of" Volturno" Disaster. 1 v.
whether it wished us to change our conditions of sitting, and it
replied that it wished us to take our hands off the table. These
replies were given in answer to suggestions from Mr. Askew.
Immediately we had removed our hands there was a kud bang
just outside the window ;
it sounded as if a champagne cork had
flown out of a bottle. Shortly after there was another more
distant noise, as if
something had stumbled or fallen in another
part of the house.
The smell of the burning was so vivid, it was decided we had
better leave oft* the seance, while Mr. Askew went downstairs to
discover if
anything was on fire, and also if there was any reason
for the noise.
The lights were then turned on in the room ;
the door was wide
open, and there was a light in the passage outside. While Mr.
Askew was downstairs we distinctly heard some one or something
in the passage; we thought it was Mr. Askew returning, but when
we went to look he was not there. We heard the noise twice.
Mrs. Askew went out of the room to see if all was well, and on
her return she said something had followed her down the passage,
and Miss Gibbons said she saw a dark figure come into the room
after Mrs. Askew. Mr. Askew was still downstairs, and every one
^Ise in the house was in bed.
We turned out the lights and again sat, with a repetition of
what we had had before, the smell of burning, sound of water,
lights, etc. Mrs. Askew, Miss Scott, and Miss Gibbons all said
that underneath the door, where the light in the passage could be
seen, they saw some one passing to and fro. I looked, but there
was a chair with bars down the back between me and the door,
and anything that I saw might have been caused by the bars. I
don't think the chair was in the same position with regard to the
view of the others.
Miss Scott was still persisting in her description of the ship.
She said she thought that she could go into a trance, and when
Mr. Askew returned and sat with us, she tried to do so. She
appeared to fall asleep but did not speak, and when she recovered
could say no more than as before, that she had seen a liner
on fire.
The only fresh phenomenon was the ticking of a watch, which
we all heard, but could not account for.
I think it must have been past one o'clock before we broke up
the seance. MILDRED WATSON.
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1914.
Two more items of testimony remain to be given. Mrs.
Askew, in a letter to Miss Johnson, dated Oct. 28, 1913,
wrote :
Some friends with whom I was motoring back from Kempton
remember that I had been telling them about the seance as we
motored down to the races, and I got very excited on seeing some
posters, as we drove away from Kempton, announcing that there
was a fire raging on the "Volturno," and reminded them of what I
had told them about the seance earlier in the day. . . . Mr. and
Mrs. Penton are the names of the friends with whom I was
motoring to Kempton, and their address is Hillside, Lindfield, near
Hayward's Heath.
Miss Johnson then wrote to Mrs. Penton, asking if she
would give her recollections of the conversation, and received the
following reply in a letter bearing the postmark, Nov. 7, 1913 :
Mrs. Askew did not mention anything about [the] seance, which
she had on the night of the "Volturno" disaster at sea, until we
had arrived at Kempton Park, and she had bought a paper. On
looking at the paper, she saw the announcement of the disaster to
the "Volturno," and seemed much astonished, and then said, "How
extraordinary," and told Mr. Penton and myself of the seance and
of how Miss Scott had seen the ship on fire, etc., etc.
This is all I can tell you, as at the time I was busy racing, and
did not pay much attention to what she was saying; but on our
drive home, she gave me a thorough account of her stance, and all
the details as to how they smelt the fire and heard the water, and
of how Miss Scott saw it all. G. L. PENTON.
Miss Watson told Miss Johnson that she was staying with
a friend for the week-end, Oct. 11-13, and heard nothing
about the
"
Volturno
"
disaster till she read of it in the
morning papers of Oct. 13. She had before this told her
friend about the sitting, and thought that she would, at all
events, remember how much upset she was on seeing the
paper next day. In reply to a request from Miss Johnson,
this friend, Mrs. Dymond, wrote to her as follows :
HAMPTON GRANGE, HEREFORD,
Nov. 11, 1913.
Miss Watson has asked me to send you my recollections of her
story about the seance at which she was present. I am sorry I have
MI.
Telepathic Impression of
"
Voltwno
"
Disa*i< / . I ! I
not been able to do it sooner, but I have been away from home and
very busy, and thought it better to wait till I had more leisure to
throw my mind back. I was going in and out of the room while
she was telling it, so I missed some of the beginning, but this is as
much as I can remember clearly.
She said they were sitting in a bedroom upstairs in the dark.
Lights began to Hash about, and they heard the sound of running
water. Mr. Askew went downstairs, and also into the bathroom to
see if the bathroom tap had been left running. While he was
downstairs they heard steps in the passage outside, and thought it
was Mr. Askew returning. He did not come in, so they went to
see, and found no one there. I cannot absolutely remember whether
Miss Watson told us that evening that they smelt burning, though
a friend who was present tells me she did. Perhaps I was out of
the room when she said it. That was on Sunday evening. The
next morning I came in and found Miss Watson reading the news-
paper account of the "Volturno" disaster. She was very much
distressed, and said they had smelt the burning and heard the water
dripping. She said the smell was like burning leather or flesh,
and that one of the people present at the stance had seen hands
coming up out of the flames, which apparently they all saw.
This is all that I can remember clearly, and I am afraid it is rather
vague and not much use to you. DOROTHY DYMOND.
In regard to the supposed abnormal noises heard during the
sitting, it seems not improbable that these were ordinary sounds
isinterpreted, especially as the house is an old one, in which
noises are likely to occur. It is also possible that the smell of
burning was due to some real smell, the origin of which was
not detected. But in that case, the natural interpretation to
put on it would be that something in the JIOUM was on fire
(as the sitters feared) : it would not naturally suggest that a
ship was on fire.
The evidence that this latter idea occurred to them at the
time would, of course, have been stronger if it had been recorded
before anything was known of the disaster. But from Mrs.
Askew's statement, in reply to Miss Johnson's question, that
nothing had ever happened before at their sittings which the
sitters thought at the time, or had reason to think afterwards,
was connected with any contemporary external event, it seems
that this was not a single correct impression out of a number
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. FEB., 1914.
of incorrect ones, in which case it might be regarded as nothing
more than an accidental coincidence. It was, on the contrary,
something unique in their experience.
Again, impressions that are not recorded until after they
are found to correspond with external events may sometimes
be explained as illusions of memory. No doubt there are people
who sometimes imagine, after an event has happened, that they
had some supernormal impression about it beforehand. But
if this case is to be thus explained, we should have to suppose
that three different persons in three different places (for it is
to be noted that the party had by that time broken up) had
the same illusion of memory independently of each other, since
there is clear evidence that they were all struck by the corre-
spondence between the events of the sitting and the disaster
to the ship, as soon as they heard of the latter. Miss Scott,
on hearing of it, telegraphed to Mrs. Askew ;
Mrs. Askew, on
hearing of it, told Mr. and Mrs. Penton of the coincidence,
and on the same day wrote to Mr. Eeilding; Miss Watson, on
hearing of it, remarked on the coincidence to Mrs. Dymond.
Independent evidence from all these persons has, it will be
seen, been obtained, as well as independent statements from all
the witnesses of the actual events of the sitting.
NOTES ON CURRENT PERIODICALS.
Archives de Psychologie, No. 51 (Sept. 1913). This number is
occupied by two long articles, both of them of interest to psychical
researchers. The first describes the calculating powers of Mile.
Urania Diamandi, a younger sister of the noted calculator, Pericles
Diamandi. It appears that she is a visualizer and has arrived at
her present proficiency by voluntary effort and her desire to rival
her brother. Secondly, Prof. Claparede has a further account of
" the thinking horses of Elberfeld," in which he describes further
experiments with them and discusses the theories about them. The
experiments, which were intended to test whether the horses could
add figures which no one present had looked at, failed ;
but as the
horses were generally in bad form and usually answered wrong
anyhow, it is held that nothing can be concluded from them. Of
the theories discussed, Prof. Claparede seems to incline most to
that of obedience to a telepathically received signal to stop tapping;
but he admits that the mystery is as yet unsolved. He also makes
excellent fun of a protest signed by a number of German professors
who thought they could settle a scientific question a priori by their
authority, and without investigation. F. C. S. S.
No. CCCVIL VOL. XVI. MARCH, 1914.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
OONTKNT8.
PAOE
New Members and Associates, 194
Annual General Meeting of McmlKTs, ... -
194
Meeting of the Council, - I'.i.i
General Meeting,
'
- -
196
Report of the Council for the year 11'13,
- - 196
Account of Receipts and Expenditure for 1913, -
,200
Kndowment Fund for Psychical Research, Account for 1013, -J01
Cases, -_-03
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On FRIDA Y, MARCH 2-jth, 1914, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
" Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence
of Personal Survival,"
WILL BE READ BY
THE RIGHT HON. GERALD W. BALFOUR.
N.B. No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be asked to sign their names on entering.
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1914.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Milward, Graham, 77 Colmore Row, Birmingham.
Proctor, G. Norman, Tullydoey, Moy, Co. Tyrone, Ireland.
Rampling-Rose, W,, 10 Dee Hills Park, Chester.
Salm and Dyck, H. S. H. Christine, Princess, Grand Hotel,
Torquay.
Scowcroft, Heber, Ogden, Utah, U.S.A.
ATKINSON, HENRY, Rokeby, Green Lane, Northwood, Middlesex.
BENNETT, COLIN N., Escot, Penzance, Cornwall.
BLACKBURN, ARTHUR J., 22 Cromwell Street, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
CORNELSON, REV. GEORGE H., JUNR., D.D., 1912 State Street,
New Orleans, La., U.S.A.
CROFT, MRS. H. PAGE, 53 Onslow Gardens, London, S.W.
DODDS, E. R., University College, Oxford.
DOUGLAS, REV. J. A., 13 Commercial Road, Peckham, London, S.E.
HALDAR, PROFESSOR HIRALAL, City College, Calcutta, India.
HAMILTON, MRS, VERA, 22 Hornsey Lane, Highgate, London, N.
HARRIS, MRS. LEVERTON, 70 Grosvenor Street, London, W.
LAW, A. H., 16 Manor House Road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
LIBRARIAN, THE JOHN CRERAR LIBRARY, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
LOWREY, GROSVENOR, M.D. (U.S.A.), 34 Albert Road, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
MOULTON, MRS. F. A., 7 rue de Chaillot, Paris, France.
NOEL, J. B. L., c/o Messrs. Cox and Co., 16 Charing Cross,
London, S.W.
NORMAN, H. J., M.B., Camberwell House, Peckham Road, London,
S.E.
OLDHAM, GEORGE S., 87 Whalley Road, Accrington, Lanes.
RITCHIE, A. J., 20 Kensington Mansions, Earl's Court, London,
S.W.
SCHILLING, BARONESS, Lowenwolde Str., Rakke, Estland, Russia.
SOMERVILLE-LARGE, LIEUT.-COLONEL B. W., R.A.M.C., Carnalway,
Kilcullen, Co. Kildare, Ireland.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
THE Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Friday, January
30th, 1914, at 6 p.m.; THE RIGHT HON. GERALD W. BALFOUR
I'.'ii. Annual General Meetvny of Members. \ '.'.">
in the chair. There were also present: Mr. W. W. Baggally,
the Rev. M. A. Baytield, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence J.
Jones, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G.
L. Fox Pitt, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and
Mr. H. Arthur Smith ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Research
Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Report of the Council for the year 1913 was read,
and is printed below. The audited account of income and
expenditure for the year 1913 was presented and taken as
read, and is also printed below.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members
of the Council offered themselves for re-election. No other
nominations having been received, the following were declared
to be duly elected Members of the Council : Sir William F.
Barrett, Dr. J. Milne Bramwell, the Hon. Everard Feilding,
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mrs. A. W.
Verrall.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 126th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, January 30th, 1914, at 5.30
p.m. ;
THE RIGHT HON. GERALD W. BALFOUR in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, The Rev.
M. A. Bayfield, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence J. Jones,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox
Pitt, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Mr. H.
Arthur Smith ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Research Officer, and
Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
After considering their Report for the year 1913, the
Council adjourned for the Annual General Meeting of Members
of the Society, and re-assembled at the conclusion of that
meeting.
The proceedings of the Annual General Meeting were reported.
DR. F. C. S. SCHILLER was elected President of the Society
for the year 1914.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ;
Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick and the Hon. Everard Feilding, Hon. Secre-
taries ;
and Mr. Arthur Miall, Auditor for the current year.
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1914.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1914: the Eev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. G. Lowes
Dickinson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Professor
Gilbert Murray, Mr. A. F. Shand, Dr. V. J. Woolley, and Dr.
M. B. Wright.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication-. The Eight Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Miss Jane Barlow, Sir William F. Barrett,
Sir William Crookes, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. W. Leaf,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Lord Kayleigh, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, and Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
Library Committee : The Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
House and Finance Committee: Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, and Mr. H. Arthur Smith.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected
for the year 1914.
Five new Members and twenty new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
GENEEAL MEETING.
THE 141st General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Kobert Barnes Hall of the Eoyal Society of Medicine, 1
Wimpole Street, London, W., on Friday, January 30th, 1914,
at 3.30 p.m., LORD EAYLEIGH in the chair.
MRS. HENRY SIDGWICK read a paper entitled
"
On the Psycho-
logy of the Piper Trance Phenomena," which will be published
later in the Proceedings.
EEPOET OF THE COUNCIL FOE THE YEAE 1913.
THE membership of the Society has increased considerably during
the year. 2] new Members were elected and 2 Associates
became Members; 108 new Associates (including one Hon.
Associate) were elected, and 3 Members became Associates.
On the other hand, the total loss in numbers from deaths,
resignations, and other causes, was 19 Members and 85
Associates; leaving a net gain of 30.
The total membership is now 1243, the numbers being
MAIL, 1914.
Report of the Council for ttie Year 1913. 107
distributed as follows :
Members, 290 (including 27 Honorary
and Corresponding Members); Associates, 953 (including 11
Honorary Associates).
The growth in membership is especially satisfactory because,
as announced in the January Jouriud, it has recently been
decided to add to the office accommodation, which naturally
involves an increase in rent and in other general expenses. It
has long been felt that the room which contains most of the
books belonging to the Library is inconveniently small and
crowded, so that it has been difficult to offer readers proper
facilities for making use of the books, especially since the
appointment of the Assistant Research Officer (Miss Verrall),
as both she and the Assistant Secretary have had to work
in the Library. The Council have therefore been on the
look-out for another room, and have taken advantage of
a vacancy that occurred at Christmas, on the top-floor of
20 Hanover Square. The new room, which is next to Miss
Johnson's, is pleasant, airy, and well lighted. It will be used
by the Assistant Research Officer, and, if necessary, part of the
Library will be housed there. It will be a great advantage
to have this extra room for experiments and also for personal
interviews ;
and it is hoped that, now there is more space,
more members will avail themselves of the opportunity of reading
in the Library. The books can be borrowed and taken away
from the office by Members only ;
but Associates have an equal
right to come and read them in the office, and the Secretary
is always glad to give visitors information and guidance in
their reading, if desired. The Library contains all the standard
books relating to the various departments of psychical research,
with many rare and valuable ones that are not to be met with
elsewhere, as well as an unrivalled collection of works, both
English and foreign, on hypnotism and suggestion. It contains
also all the important foreign journals dealing with psychical
research, and is constantly being added to and kept up to
date.
It would be possible for more persons to do independent
work in psychical research if those that had leisure and inclina-
tion to do so would make a point of acquainting themselves
thoroughly with the work that has been done by the Society
in the past, the principles that have guided it, and the methods
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAK., 1914.
that have been followed. This becomes more and more essential
as time goes on and as advances are made in the subject, so
that more knowledge and experience are constantly required
to carry it on further.
Some years ago, as a help to readers, a Combined Index was
printed, covering the first fifteen volumes of the Proceedings,
the first nine volumes of the Journal, the Proceedings of the
first American Society for Psychical Research, and Phantasms
of the Living. A supplementary Combined Index is now being
prepared to the Proceedings, Vols. XVL-XXVL, and the Journal
Vols. X.-XV. The whole of this is already in type, and.it will,
we hope, be published before long, and be found useful to many
readers.
This year has been marked by the Presidency of Professor
Henri Bergson, who is our third President from abroad, the
other two being Professor William James and Professor Charles
Richet. Professor Bergson's Presidential Address roused so
much interest that it has been thought desirable to publish
in the Proceedings, Part LXVIII, an authorised English translation
of it
(by Dr. Wildon Carr), as well as the original, which
appeared in Part LXVII ;
while a German translation has, by
permission of the Council, appeared in the Zeitschrift filr Patho-
psychologie, the Editor of which was anxious to interest the
educated German public in the subject. It is, of course,
appropriate that a Society which counts its members in almost
all the civilised countries of the world should occasionally have
foreign Presidents. A considerably larger number of foreigners
than usual have joined this year.
Another circumstance which aroused much interest in the
general public this year was the reference to psychical research
in Sir Oliver Lodge's Presidential Address to the British
Association at Birmingham, which has since been published in
book form with explanatory notes.
1
To members of the Society
it was an event of special interest that the greatest living
veteran in psychical research, and one who had been, their
own President Sir William Crookes was elected President of
the Royal Society.
The Society has to regret the loss by death during the year
1
Published by Dent & Sons (Aldine House, Bedford and Chandos Streets,
London, W.C.) under the title Continuity, price Is. net.
MAU., inn. Report of the Council for the )'<"/ I'M.; 199
of two of its oldest and most distinguished supporters, Dr.
A. E. Wallace, O.M., and the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres.
The general work of the Society has been going on steadily
throughout the year, but it happens that there are few special
incidents to record. As usual, a large number of experiments
of various kinds have been carried on at the Rooms. Those
who have had most experience of such work will best under-
stand how long a time has generally to be spent before results
sufficiently conclusive to be worth publishing are obtained ;
but
we may mention in particular a promising series of experiments
in thought-transference, in all of which the agent and percipient
were in two different rooms, begun several months ago and
still being continued.
We wish especially to impress on experimenters the desira-
bility of trying experiments in thought-transference in this way.
lere is no reason to think that distance need be a bar to
jlepathy, and the advantage of having the agent and percipient
different rooms is twofold: First, because, if success is obtained,
he evidence for telepathy is much stronger, since it is difficult,
not impossible, so long as both experimenters are in the
same room, to make quite certain that indications as to the
subject of experiment have not been unconsciously given by the
agent, or unconsciously perceived by the percipient. Secondly,
even if no such flaw in experimentation has occurred, so many
precautions are necessary to prevent it that it is practically
ipossible to record them completely, so as to give a reader
rho has not been present the opportunity of judging for himself
whether the precautions taken have been sufficient. But if
le agent and percipient are in different rooms, both the con-
litions and the record may be greatly simplified ;
and it should
len be possible, by taking sufficient care, to make such a
record as, to a reader assuming the bona fides of the experi-
menters, may carry almost the same weight as if he himself
had been present at the experiments.
Considerable progress has been made in dealing with the
automatic writings by various automatists, which also continue
to be produced in abundance. Some of the results were given
in a paper read by Miss Johnson at a meeting held early in the
year, and these will appear in full in Part LXVIII of the Proceed-
ings, to be published immediately.
1
Another contribution to the
t
1
This Part was published in February, 1914.
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1914.
s I
^ I
I?
b
1
000
000
0000
00
s
t~O
0000
0000
g8i
-H <M t- LO 00 CO <* CC TJ. 05 in (N
>COOOOCOCOrH^IC
0<N
00"
r^CO
cS"
5 .
!!.!.
I
I SPl!
.3o:4.i,il
3 lillliiik-g.
SOOmOrH
CO O O o: O
!>OvO COO
rH
OOrHO l>0
3IS3
o o o o irt o cocoes
I
I>CO0
rH rH
rHCOCO flH
'M'.
K|
.
.UK
:ii
J-2 g ^ a" .1
* fl
fl W
ll^Bfc
Sill';
H^Cl-^C/JC
Sl
|g
is!
mil. Accounts of <md Expenditure. 201
8g
111
g^-rt go 2
S"* 3 -J C
OOOOOr-JO
0000000
2
2* e
1 5
S t
1 !
i :-
3 i
i
II
II
^J
1!
02JM "Si s
-g^o S2 4
S gcc .J 5 .
3 "S i ?
'
in
I''
|l|| B||I||1I ?i^
-.Ids
~ -? 3
OO D
Gil
fe)
1
CO
I
o oeo
8 g
1 ' '
~ -
'
2
* 3 5 S
(^ h K ,
"
IS ^
I! I
$O '
Q
J""
(M c
2 I
s 3
fri PQ
OOrHO
cieo o d
Us
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAM., 1914.
subject was made in a paper by Miss Verrall at a later meeting,
and this will also be published at an early date. In connection
with the same subject may be mentioned an important theo-
retical paper by Mr. G. W. Balfour, entitled
"
Telepathy and
Metaphysics," which appeared in the Hibbert Journal for
April, 1913.
In the spring an interesting series of experiments with the
.so-called
"
thinking
"
horses of Herr Krall was carried out by
Dr. Woolley and Mr. Bullough at Elberfeld. These horses have
been trained to spell out words and perform arithmetical
operations, and there are differences of opinion as to whether
their actions are guided by signals given unconsciously by
the experimenters, or by memory of what they have been
taught to do, or whether any real intelligence is involved. Dr.
Woolley and Mr. Bullough convinced themselves of the bona
fide character of the experiments, and though they were not satis-
fied that all possibility of unconscious signalling was excluded,
they failed to detect any, and thought it improbable that it
was used. The performances of the horses were interesting
.and remarkable, but did not seem to go beyond what might
be effected by well-trained memory. It turned out that the
'time of year was an unfavourable one for getting the best
.results, and further experiments were to have been made in the
autumn, but these were unfortunately prevented by the illness
of Herr Krall.
Miss Verrall has during the year lectured twice to debating
societies, at Lewisham and St. Albans, and she has recently
accepted the position of Honorary Assistant Demonstrator in
Psychology at King's College, London, a post involving one
evening's work a week, with a view to keeping in touch with
modern developments in Psychology which may bear on psychical
research.
On the psychological side of our work this year may be
mentioned Dr. van Eeden's paper on Dreams, which included
a provisional scheme of classification, founded on records of a
large number of his own dreams; and Dr. Woolley's paper on some
experiments made by a member of the Society, on the production
of hallucinations by self-suggestion. In this paper Dr. Woolley
discussed a number of the cases from a psycho-analytic point of
-view, showing how they illustrated some of the normal processes
M AH., 1914.
Report of tke Council fo* thi >V//- 1913, 208
of dream-formation. A sixth edition of Dr. Lloyd Tuckey's
Treatment by Hypnotism and Suggestion has come out during the
year, with much new material, including a chapter on Psycho-
Analysis; and a book by Dr. Mitchell on Personality and Hyp-
notism is in preparation, and will shortly be published in a
Psychological series issued by the Cambridge University Press.
Six Meetings of the Society were held during the year. The
dates and subjects of the papers read were as follows :
March 13th.
"
Cross- Correspondences relating to Works
of Art," by Miss Alice Johnson.
April 22nd. "A Study of Dreams," by Dr. Frederik
van Eeden.
May 28th. "Presidential Address," by Professor Henri
Bergson.
July 3rd. "The 'Thinking' Horses of Elberfeld," by
Mr. E. Bullough and Dr. V. J. Woolley.
November 5th.
"
Some further Cross-Correspondences
between Scripts," by Miss Helen de G. Verrall.
December llth. "Some Auto-suggested Visions as illus-
trating Dream-Formation," by Dr. V. J. Woolley :
and "
A Telepathic Impression of the Volturno Dis-
aster," by Mrs. Claude Askew.
CASES.
L. 1199. Telepathic Impression.
THE following case was sent to Mrs. Sidgwick through a friend
of hers, Mr. F. E. Kitchener. The names and addresses of all
the persons concerned have been communicated to us, but by
request pseudonyms or initials are here substituted. The per-
cipient, Mr. Parker, who is a clergyman, describes his experience
as follows in a letter, a copy of which was received by Mrs.
Sidgwick from Mr. Kitchener on December 16th, 1913:
On Sunday evening, Dec. 7th, 1913, I explained to my niece and
companion, M. W., that thoughts of two friends in whose house I
had lived for 12 months, 44 years ago, for the purposes of com-
pleting my education after leaving school, had occupied my mind
during the day in a most unaccountable manner. I had not seen
Mr. and Mrs. C. for 28 years, and had long since ceased to cor-
respond with them. The last time I had heard of them they were
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR. ,
1914.
living in retirement at D . I added that I was so much
impressed by the frequent recurrence of these thoughts that, had
there been any tendency to superstition about me, I should probably
have expected to hear that something had happened to one or both
of them. My niece and I smiled at the very suggestion !
On the following Friday, to my surprise, I received a copy of the
D Daily Telegraph in which was the account of the tragic death
of Mrs. C. from burning, which occurred early in the morning of
Sunday, Dec. 7th. Her nightdress caught fire as she was lighting
a candle to ascertain the time by her watch. The doctor at the
inquest reported that death had ensued very shortly after the
accident, and was mainly due to shock.
Mr. and Mrs. C. were 86 years of age.
[Signed] T. PARKER.
Miss W. corroborates Mr. Parker's statement as follows in a
letter received by Mr. Kitchener on January 5th, 1914 :
On Sunday, Dec. 7th, [1913], at lunch time, my uncle spoke to
me about a Mr. and Mrs. C., saying he had been thinking all the
morning about them. I had never heard him mention them before,
and did not know of their existence.
Then again at supper time he spoke of them and said that, if he
had been of at all a superstitious nature, he supposed he should
have expected to hear something about them within the next few
days.
On the following Friday he received a cutting from a D news-
paper with an account of Mrs. C.'s accident and death.
Before telling me that he had received the paper, he asked me
on which day it was that he had spoken to me about Mr. and Mrs.
C. This he did to make sure that it was the day of the accident.
[Signed] M. W.
Mr. Parker sent us the cutting from the D Daily
Telegraph above referred to. It is dated Monday, December 8,
1913, and contains the following account of Mrs. C.'s death:
A distressing accident occurred early on Sunday morning by
which an old lady named Mrs. H C lost her life. She was
the wife of Mr. E C ,
a retired land agent, and they have been
residing together for some months past at a boarding-house. . . .
Mr. and Mrs. C were eighty-six years of age. . . .
The old couple, who occupy apartments on the ground floor,
MAK , 1914. Cases.
retired to rest on Saturday night at about half-past ten. The
boarding-house really consists of three houses, Nos. 48, 49, and 50,
which have been so altered internally as to allow of communication
between one and the other. On Sunday morning, at about a
quarter-past six, several members of the Borough Police Force were
going off duty when they heard cries of "Fire!" proceeding from
No. 48. The party consisted of Sergeant Jones and Constables
Hill and Jennings, and when they reached the door of the
house it was opened by Mr. C ,
who led them into a bedroom,
from which smoke was issuing. Mrs. C was found lying behind
the door with her nightdress, in which she was attired, smoulder-
ing, and she was at once carried out into the passage, but she was
pronounced to be dead by Dr. John A. W ,
one of the medical
officers of the County Council, who resides at the same house.
In regard to Mr. Parker's statement, Mr. Kitchener writes :
To the facts as stated by Mr. [Parker] I may add the following :
(1) [Mr. Parker] is a man I have known for years, accurate and
business-like. He has hitherto had no sympathy with any investiga-
tion of such cases, as I know from his reception of one or two
personal experiences of my own communicated by me to him.
(2) I never heard him mention Mr. and Mrs. C., though he has
told me many details of his boyhood and young-manhood. I under-
stand his niece had never heard him mention them either.
(3) [Mr. Parker] performed three full services on Sunday, Dec. 7,
(1913], so that there was much to divert him throughout the day
from the thought of Mr. and Mrs. C., which, he says nevertheless
occupied his mind during the day.
[Signed] F. E. KITCHENER.
L. 1200. Apparition.
THE following case of an apparently telepathic hallucination,
in which both sight and hearing were affected, was sent to
us by Mr. H. Arthur Smith, to whom all the witnesses con-
cerned are intimately known.
The percipient, Mr. Laurence Orchard, has never had any
other experience of a psychical kind. His mother, whose
phantasm he saw, was in Canada at the time that is on
Christmas Day, 1913 and though naturally her absence from
home at that season would remind him constantly of her,
he had no reason for any anxiety about her. On the other
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1914.
hand, the evidence shows that his mother's thoughts were
strongly directed to her family in England, from whom she
had never before been absent at Christmas time ;
and Mis&
Gertrude Orchard explained in a conversation with Miss John-
son on January 15th, 1914, that her brother Laurence was
likely to have been specially in her mother's mind, as he had
met with an accident some months ago in the far west, and
on his way home had stayed in Canada at his brother's house,
where his mother was staying, when he was still suffering from
the effects of the accident, from which he had not recovered
when he reached home.
Mr. Orchard's own account of his experience is given in a
letter to Mr. Smith as follows :
December '29th, 1913.
On Christmas Day at 12.50 p.m. I was in the bathroom, when I
heard footsteps and doors being opened and closed quite distinctly,
and as I was the only one in the house it surprised me, so [I] opened
the door and looked out, and to my astonishment I saw Mother (or
thought I did) in a black dress at her bedroom door and her arms
full of parcels. I made an exclamation "
Mother," I think and
I think there was some sort of response, but I forget now, and then
all disappeared suddenly. I then left the house, and told Gerty
what a vision I had had, when I saw her at E 's.
I suppose Mother having been so much in all our minds, and no
doubt we in hers, made me see "things," but it was the noise that
attracted my notice first.
"
E." was a married sister, whose family gathering, in another
part of London, they joined on Christmas Day.
Miss Gertrude Orchard writes to Mr. Smith as follows :
December 30th, 1913.
Laurie tells me you want a report from me of his interesting
experience on Christmas Day. As you may have heard, we all
went over to E 's
(where we spent the rest of the day) soon
after 12 o'clock. We had been waiting for the postman to arrive,
but as he was so late, Laurie suggested waiting a few minutes
longer while we went on. The house had previously been locked
and bolted, excepting, of course, the hall door, so we all departed,
leaving Laurie quite alone. He didn't arrive at E 's until after
1 o'clock, and I noticed that he looked rather pale and tired, but
made no remark, as he is still feeling the result of his accident..
MAI:.. I'.ll I. <'<lSe8. 207
I saw nothing of him during the afternoon till we all met at tea,
when we were quite a party. He was sitting opposite me when
In-
suddenly said, looking at me, "I had a vision this morning."
I said, "Did you
1
?" and laughed, thinking he only meant to be
funny. But he said quite seriously, "I did I saw Mother," and
then he proceeded to tell me how he heard all the bedroom doors
open and shut, and quick footsteps down the little corridor. At
first he took no notice, forgetting he was alone in the house, then
it dawned on him, and he went to see who it could be. I'm not
quite clear whether he said he was already upstairs preparing to
leave, or whether he only went up at that moment, but I understood
he was in the bathroom, and went to the door, when he saw Mother
walk from her bedroom towards him, and when she reached the top
of the two little stairs he exclaimed, "Good heavens." Then, I
understood, she said something about being here and vanished.
He then realized what had happened and it unnerved him, so he
immediately ran downstairs, put on his hat and coat and left the
house. After tea I got him to repeat what he had said, which he
did in much the same words, adding that Mother was dressed in
her ordinary black attire, with her arms full of little parcels, and
she looked bright and like herself. She spoke, but he only had a
sense of what she said, hardly hearing words. But she was so
natural that he was only surprised at her being there, not frightened,
till she vanished, but it was all over in a moment. The' footsteps
that he heard before looking were unmistakably Mother's quick, firm,
short steps, and the opening and shutting of the bedroom doors quite
in her manner.
It was a wonderful experience, and startled him very much, as it
did me when he told me ;
in fact, I can't get it out of my mind
It haunts me night and day; but each day, now, I feel happier
about it, as [my brother] G would surely have cabled by this time
if anything serious had happened. . . .
[Signed] GERTRUDE ORCHARD.
These letters were sent to us by Mr. Smith on Dec. 31,
1913, before any news had been received by the family from
Canada. On Jan. 8, 1914, Miss Orchard wrote to him again
as follows :
Lc^te last night a letter came from Mother written on the 27th
Dec. . . . Mother writes a long detailed account of all their Christmas
doings [and says how greatly she missed being with us at home]. . . .
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAR., 1914.
When we left Laurie he was reading G. A. Birmingham's Spanish
Gold, and in less than an hour afterwards he was at E's. So there was
no idea of his sleeping ; besides, he was upstairs getting ready. . . .
After receiving this letter, Miss Orchard wrote to her mother,
asking her to send a detailed account of her actions and thoughts
at the time of getting up on Christmas morning (8.10 A.M.
in that part of Canada corresponding approximately to 12.50
P.M. in London, the time when Mr. Orchard saw the apparition).
Miss Orchard said nothing about her brother's experience in this
letter, but told her mother that she would explain later why
she had asked her these questions.
Mrs. Orchard's reply was sent to us on Feb. 14, 1914, and
from it we extract the following :
R came in about 7.30, blowing a trumpet and beating his
dram, with a "Merry Christmas, Grandma, dear." After a few
minutes I rose and dressed, but did not go to early service with
the others, preferring to go later with G to the parish church. . . .
I went on dressing and thinking about you all at home and wondering
what was being done. Then G came in from Chapel wishing me
a Happy Xmas, and asking if I was going down to breakfast,
but just then Alicia brought in my breakfast tray, so I slipped on
my dressing-gown and had it, afterwards putting on my best black
dress, and finished by putting on my hat, and going down into
the dining-room. . . .
My joy of thought was in quietly picturing you all, which I did
hour by hour as I measured the distance and difference in time ;
so I saw you all quite plainly, and fancied I saw you and heard
you speaking, So my Christmas was spent with my dear ones at
home, with very anxious thoughts between of my one dear one
here, and the other in far-off Australia.
N... CCCVIII.-VoL. XVI. APRIL, 1914.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTKNTS.
PAOB
The Phenomena of Frieda Gentes. By Emil Mattiesen, Ph.D., - - 210
Supplementary Library Catalogue, 223
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On FRIDA Y, APRIL 24th, 1914, at 8.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
" Certain Spiritistic Phenomena and
Subconscious Activities,"
t^^fl
WILL BE READ BY
DR. MORTON PRINCE (OF BOSTON, U.S.A.)
N.B. Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member
or Associate is allowed to invite ONE friend.
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1914.
THE PHENOMENA OF FKIEDA GENTES.
BY EMIL MATTIESEN, Ph.D.
BEFORE entering upon the phenomena presented by Miss
Frieda Gentes, it is necessary to say a few words on the
question of Miss Gentes being a professional medium. I
think it may be said with certainty that all her mediumistic
gifts were fully developed before she made any money out of
them. When her trance-painting was in full bloom, she was
told by her "guide" to produce it publicly, and consequently
exhibitions were arranged in Berlin and other German towns,
for which admission fees were charged Her private circum-
stances seem to have been such as to induce her not to refuse
the advantages offered by her newly discovered gifts. How-
ever, there is, I think, no valid reason to deny her, on this
score, a serious scientific interest. Her drawing trances have
been closely investigated by medical authorities and found to
be genuine. The cases of supernormal knowledge, referred to
in this Eeport, were not connected with any professional
interest. It may be added, that all observers concur in
attesting her personal integrity and truthfulness, and I may
say that my own observations, as far as they go, lead me
very sincerely to endorse this opinion. So far her real gains
have been very small, and her travels, she asserts, have not
paid her expenses.
By personal enquiries I learnt the following facts about the
medium's personality: Miss Frieda Gentes was born in 1880.
Her parents, she avers, were healthy people ;
at least, with-
out nervous complaints of any sort. The medium herself,
however, appears to be of a very delicate constitution, pale
and transparent, not reaching above 4 feet, her back curved
and her finger-joints swollen. Her heart also causes her
trouble.
Three years before her drawing powers developed (which
was in January, 1910), she had sometimes practised auto-
matic writing as a sort of
"
social game," as it then appeared
to her, but under the guidance of a decided
"
spiritist."
Furthermore she has been able to make tables rap and tilt,
but the raps she curiously avers have disappeared since
the development of her trances. Once, she reports, when
A i i ; 1 1
,, 191 4. 7 'A >
Phenomena of Frieda Gentes. 211
she was alone, a picture rose from the wall, floated through the
room and lodged itself under a bed : the nail and cord being
intact and the dust on the frame untouched. She also reports
having heard noises as of
"
peas
"
being thrown on the floor
about her, but "
not rolling away."
Her automatic drawing started abruptly
1
one evening towards
the end of January, 1910, when she was bedridden with
rheumatism. During the preceding night Miss Gentes had
twice, on awaking, found her hands bathed in perspiration.
Next evening, while she was noting down the press-marks
of some books her sister was to fetch for her from the Public
Library, the pencil suddenly drew a horizontal line across the
paper (this sheet has been shown to me) and below that a
flowery design of the type developed later on in her more
elaborate pictures. She had been reading and was u
wide-
awake
"
during the whole process, which was repeated next
night, rather late. This time she used a blue pencil, and a
flower was drawn upside-down. She was still
"
wide-awake,"
and able to converse during the drawing. The new faculty
developed rapidly, but remained dormant during the ensuing
summer. Then very soon she began to fall into trance during
the drawing, possibly in consequence of using a greater number
of coloured pencils and thus complicating the process.
The character, bringing on, and other details of her trances
are thus described in a
"
Medical Eeport," by Dr. A. Meier,
of Munich, written on March 18, 1913:
"On March 17, 1913, Miss Frieda Gentes gave a special
exhibition of her peculiar drawing work in a state of auto-
hypnosis to a private circle of members of the Society for
Scientific Psychology [in Munich], at which some medical men
and an experienced practical hypnotist were present. Miss
Gentes, by concentration of thought, by inducing inward and
downward convergence of the eyes, and by a peculiar modifica-
tion of her breathing, auto-hypnotically induces a state of uncon-
sciousness [in which she produces her drawings]. The state
of unconsciousness comes on after scarcely 3 minutes ;
the
pulse, in the beginning 120 in a minute, first rises to 132,
iMr. H. Freimark, author of a book on Mediumistic Art (to be published
shortly) thinks that Miss Gentes' automatism has been instigated by her know
ledge of the work of another drawing medium, Mrs. Assmann.
212 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1914.
and after some 10 minutes again returns to 120; the colour
of the face in this condition of total unconsciousness and
anaesthesia is pale, the eyelids are nearly closed, leaving only
a narrow chink, the eyes slightly converge, the pupils are of
mean size, and not reacting upon light, unless rather strong.
When the state of unconsciousness began, the left arm was
slowly bent at the elbow-joint into a right angle, raised up to
the level of the eyes, the fingers of this hand being abnormally
extended, and arm and head remained in this cataleptic state
without any change during the whole performance, which
lasted nearly an hour and three-quarters. The right hand
chooses, evidently without being controlled by the eye, out of
a great number of coloured crayons lying on one side, those
which fit the drawing, and with them traces the drawing with
moderate speed on a sheet lying in front of the lady. In this
work the eye undoubtedly exercises some control, for as soon
as the eyes are covered by a piece of paper held in front of
them, a noticeable unsteadiness sets in and the contours of
the drawing are no longer adhered to with the previous exact-
ness. In this state Miss Gentes, when called or spoken to,
does not react at all, or, at times, very feebly.
"
If the drawing material is removed, the left arm soon sinks
back into the lap, breathing becomes deeper, often resembling
convulsive sobbing (similar to what is observed in people coming-
to after narcotics), the mimic muscles twitch and are distorted
as in suppressed weeping, and after one more vehement twitch,
along with a little shriek, Miss Gentes again awakes. The
process of awaking, too, lasted about two and a half to three
minutes. Pulse 120. For some minutes Miss Gentes is some-
what at sea, like a sleeper suddenly awakened; then perfect
mental clearness again is established. Miss Gentes denies any
fatigue even in the left arm, held up for so long (which, by
the way, is slightly colder to the touch than the right arm),
and indeed none can be proved objectively to exist. Of hys-
terical stigmata I have noticed nothing in particular. After
awaking there is total amnesia. During the whole perform-
ance it was not permitted to step behind the back of the
lady, as this would give her a headache after coming-to."
I had an opportunity closely to watch Miss Gentes' trance
on June 4, 1913, and my observations, such as they are, bear
AIM: 1
1., 1914. The Phenomena of Frieda (rentes. 213
out the foregoing statement almost in every detail. The trance
seemed to be brought about chiefly by expectation.
Work began about five minutes after
"
expectation
"
had set
in. There were some sixty crayons on the table, well mixed-
up, on the right side of the medium. Miss Gentes certainly
does not choose those she wants to employ by her eyesight
(she at times distinctly looks away from them), but by very
prolonged
"
fingering." The crayons are all of one "
set," and
perfectly resemble each other in shape, smoothness, etc.; but
I got no proof at that sitting of her
"
fingering-out
"
a special
crayon she had been searching for. Those she employed fitted
the drawing, but others would have fitted as well. I also
made the experiment of the
"
screen," which left no doubt
of the eyes being used in some dreamy fashion : the hand at
once began to
"
search
"
on the sheet, wandering all about
it, and finally settling in an appropriate place, to be sure, but
still mixing up the design and misplacing details in an obvious
fashion. I got the impression that the hand, when bereft of
the guidance of the eyes, was directed by recollections of the
drawing achieved so far, recollections, however, of insufficient
"
localisation." Miss Gentes told me, that for some ten minutes
after the conclusion of the trance, her eyesight was greatly
impaired.
The trance at times comes on spontaneously, when not
expected, but she can resist its coming on. It is preceded
by a certain feeling of restlessness and oppression, which seems
to radiate from the
"
heart
"
or the
"
solar plexus," as Miss
Gentes puts it. She feels sick, the twitching sets in (she has
no special sensations in the arm), and she quickly loses con-
sciousness. Her visual power, I am inclined to think, is rather
cnhaiwed during the trance (possibly the fatigue of the eyes,
observed after coming-to, is due to an overexertion of the
visual apparatus during the trance). Thus, as Mr. Kampfer
1
tells me, Miss Gentes is able to work out a contour very
slightly pencilled and quite invisible to ordinary eyes in the
little light sometimes allowed. She has never worked in total
darkness. Her friends aver that she always gets the crayon
she wants at the time (which obviously may have to be a
i Mr. Kampfer has been in charge of the public performances given by Miss
Gentes. Ed.
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APEIL, 1914.
special one) when she continues work at a drawing which was
begun in a former trance (some of her drawings taking twenty-
five or even fifty hours to finish, while her trance has never
exceeded eight hours). The trance personality has repeatedly
promised by automatic writing (I have seen the originals) that
it would finally succeed in entirely closing the
"
windows
"
(i.e. eyes) of the
"
hut
"
(i.e. the medium), when, after working
more with her, it would have obtained full power over her. But
so far the eyes, though closed more and more, have never yet
been closed entirely. A mental (subconscious) origin of the
catalepsy of the left arm is suggested by the fact that it has
been interrupted repeatedly by the will of the trance personality.
On such occasions it has declared that the catalepsy is. intended
to prove the genuineness of the trance, and has challenged
bystanders to imitate the feat, which they, of course, have been
unable to do, exhaustion of the limb very soon forcing them
to drop it, while the medium was holding up her arm for hours
at a stretch without any fatigue being noticeable.
As to the intrinsic
"
value" of the drawings, everybody has, of
course, to judge for himself. The effect of the originals is
largely due to their gorgeous and not disharmonious colouring.
Very tiny circles, put closely together in great numbers, like
"
pearls
"
in old-fashioned needlework, make up a great part
of the designs, and form the
"
ground
"
in some of them, while
in others great areas of even colouring, smoothed to a perfect
polish, are introduced. The trance-personality claimed to have
used some fifty to sixty thousand "
circles
"
in one drawing,
which it is not hard to accept as true.
As to the medium's professed inability to draw or paint in
her normal condition, it is, of course, difficult to obtain absolute
certainty. I have no doubt, however, of her good faith in
asserting it. She and her friends concur in stating that she
has never drawn or painted in any way seriously before her
trances began ;
and that at school she was dispensed most of the
time if not always from drawing lessons on account of her
feeble health : her mark in that subject consequently was
"
very poor." Stress might, perhaps, be laid on her assertion,
that when she tries, while awake, to work at some painting
begun in a trance, she finds herself totally at sea, not knowing
what to put in or how to go on. Her first automatic draw-
A i
-KM., iiM4. The Phenomena of Frieda Gentes. 215
ings, it is true, were primitive when compared with her later
achievements ; still, they distinctly show the same characteristics,
and are, as it were, the germ of what succeeded them.
The pictures are usually signed
"
C. v. Rainsavi," or,
"C. v. II 1806-1910 "
(or 1911, etc.). This trance-personality
pretends its real name to be Louis Berlamottes, and to have
been born on August 2, 1780, in Paris. I see no reason
to suppose him to be a
"
spirit," as Miss Gentes' friends (but
not she herself) seem to think. It is to be noted, that while
Ramsavi pretends the aim of his posthumous paintings to be
to convince humanity of the reality of a future life, he
obviously evades statements which could lead to researches
concerning the reality of his earthly life. He, e.g. refused to
name the university where he had studied medicine, pretend-
ing that thus certain small peccadillos of his youth might get
revealed. He has been spoken to in French, but his use of
that language,
"
in which the medium has never been instructed,"
appears to be limited to a very few common phrases, as, e.g.
"je comprends bien, mon frere." But it seems most destructive
of his claims, that his pseudonym obviously originated in some
suggestions of Miss Gentes' friends. Search in this direction
revealed the following facts : Mr. Weingartner (Miss Gentes'
fiance') thought to have observed in the corners of each of a
series of early drawings some single letters, which, on being
put together in the order in which they appeared, gave the
word "
Ramsa," which he thereupon took to be the name of a
spirit-artist. I was shown one of these
"
letters," which quite
obviously was merely a part of the ornamentation, gratuitously
read into a letter. This pseudonym, then, once adopted by the
trance-personality, seems to have been the germ which led, later
on, to the elaboration of a whole life-story.
As will be seen, Miss Gentes conforms, not only in general,
but in every detail, to well-established types of
"
automatic
"
mental activity. Her interest to Psychical Research, there-
fore, seems to me to lie far less in these feats of her
"
medium-
ship
"
(which have, in fact, brought her most before the public
eye), than in an element of supernormal knowledge which
primd facie very noticeably tinges her automatic messages.
These messages come to her in several ways. Sometimes
she writes them down automatically, mostly during her drawing
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1914.
seances, interrupting the painting for the while. Dreams hardly
seem to figure in her supernormal life, she mostly being able,
she says, to trace them to some natural origin, and thus to exclude
any supernormal element. More frequently she has waking
visions, which confer to her a special meaning. Thus she
claims to see small shapes as of imps ;
or human figures,
which form out of clouds, and grow until they finally dissolve :
these always announce some impending misfortune.
Very frequently she gets her messages through voices, which
sometimes seem to speak right into her ear, sometimes to come
from afar, or, as it were,
"
through a telephone
"
types of
auditory hallucinations well known to the psychologist. She
soon forgets these messages, unless she speaks of them at once to
other people.
There is a considerable mass of testimony bearing on Miss
Gentes' ability to divine the thoughts of people present with her,
to get their names, unknown to her, to tell them their past
lives or distant doings, correctly to foresee future events, etc.
But most of this testimony (contained in diary-notes, or letters
addressed to the medium) does not go beyond fairly vague
assertions as to feats of this sort having been witnessed, and
cannot now be brought up to the desirable standard of evidence.
A few of these documents, however, seemed to invite investi-
gation, and the remainder of this Eeport consists of two of
these
"
cases."
(i)
An apparent instance of telepathy is described in the fol-
lowing testimonial by Mr. Georg Korf:
MOZART STRASSE, 3, HAMBURG,
April 7, 1911.
While present last night at your sitting for trance-painting,
this idea suddenly occurred to me :
"
If Miss Gentes is clair-
audient and clairvoyant, or even clair-sentient in this peculiar
state, then I should like to get an answer to a question put."
I then wrote a test-word on a card, which I hid in my waist-
coat-pocket. A few seconds later Miss Gentes paused in her
painting-work and wrote on a sheet of paper put ready to her
hand :
"
The wings you may construct ; you yourself will live
to fly ;
much else besides, but not here." Only then I showed
I'.MI. The Phenomena of Frieda Genie*. 217
those present the test-word I had written down, without their
seeing it. The word I had written was "
wings," and I had
asked mentally :
"
Shall I attain my purpose with my wings
(living-machine)?" I thus got an exact [and] apposite reply to
a question mentally put, which I herewith truthfully testify to.
[Signed] GEORG KORF.
Upon application Mr. Korf kindly sent me the original sheet
with Miss Gentes' automatic writing in green pencil, obviously
of one kind with the many samples of her automatic writing
I had seen,, and in an accompanying letter, dated May 10,
1913, wrote as follows: "... The. original scrap of paper
bearing the test-word I no longer possess; but I have enclosed
a copy of it. As it is my habit to carry [in my pocket]
one half or a quarter of a post-card for making short
notes, the copy enclosed resembles the original exactly.
The thing happened thus : Miss Gentes was in trance. [To
try her telepathic faculty] I directed my glance on to Miss
Gentes' forehead and th&ught intensely of a flying-machine I
had ordered to be constructed, which is an imitation of a pair
of wings. Then I mentally put the question to the [medium]
in about these terms :
'
Dear Conrad von Bamsavi, please, answer
my question : Shall I achieve flying with rny apparatus ?
'
Before trying this telepathic experiment, I wrote the word
'
Fliigel
'
on the slip of paper which I had been carrying about
me, after first making sure that no one present could see what
I was writing, and then again concealed it in my waistcoat-pocket;
besides, I stood apart at a distance of about four steps from
the drawing desk, and nobody was paying any attention to me,
since everybody was intently watching Miss Geutes' drawing.
A few seconds after I had despatched my mental
'
telegram/
Miss Gentes stopped her drawing, raised the arm with the green
crayon it was just holding, which apparently was a signal 1'or
Mr. Kiimpfer, that she wanted a clean sheet of paper, and
this being put to her hand, she wrote down an exact reply
to my mental query. ..."
(2)
This case of precognition referring to an accident is
perhaps
the most remarkable of all, and, happily, evidentially fairly
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1914.
strong. I first give, for convenience' sake, Mr. Kampfer's
written resume".
During a sitting towards the end of 1907, "the deceased
brother Richard [Gentes] manifested. Miss Gentes' mother,
who was present, said she should like to be with him, where-
upon the reply came through [automatic] writing, that the
mother would remain longer with Frieda than with her sister
Elsa. ... On Sept. 26, 1908, about 10 a.m. Miss Gentes'
hairdresser was with her, and to her Miss Gentes suddenly
said, without any external reason, 'my sister dies/ wherewith
a condition similar to intoxication came over her, which con-
tinued till about 4 p.m. She then read the extra-gazettes
published by the papers about the horrible disaster on the
Underground Railway and said :
'
My sister is dead.' They
tried to reassure her, and to persuade her out of it, but in
vain. She sent out her brother to make enquiries. Towards
evening he came back and reported that his sister really had been
involved in the disaster and he had seen her in the morgue."
This resume is correct as far as it goes, but rather incom-
plete. The knowledge came to Miss Gentes, as she told me
during a careful examination on May 8, 1913, through a
vision, just after the hairdresser had called.
"
I suddenly saw
my sister [Elsa] standing before me, one half of her face being
blue." This, in her visions, is a standing symbol of a death
near at hand, while people already dead appear to her with a
face entirely blue.
"
After that I was for some time as one
intoxicated, and have no very clear recollection of what happened
during that time." As to the vision itself she is as positive
as possible, and its time may be fixed with fair approximation
by the fact that the hairdresser used to call daily between
9.30 and 10 a.m. It can hardly have happened after 10.15.
On that day the woman called twice again before noon, but
was sent away each time on account of Miss Gentes' excited
condition. She had, she also told me, intended to bake a cake,
but gave it up for the same reason. Elsa Gentes, I was further
told, was then employed in the
"
Kaufhaus des Westens," a
well-known department-store, as a saleswoman. She was living
with her mother and step-sister, Emmi Scholz, at 23, Bliicher
Str., and used to come home for dinner during her midday
recess. On that day early her mother and step-sister had
APRIL, 1914. The Phenomena of Frieda Gentes.
called on her at the Kaufhaus to tell her not to come home
for dinner, but to dine in the Kaufhaus, there being a special
sale on, which Mrs. Scholz, the mother, wanted to visit. Her
not appearing early in the afternoon could not, therefore, add
in the least to any apprehensions in her family. It was only
Miss Frieda Gentes' persistent excitement and dread which
caused her mother to drive a second time to the Kaufhaus
(some two miles distant from Bliicher Str.), to enquire after her
daughter. She did not find her, and her brother, who wanted
to enquire by telephone, did not, Miss Gentes told me, get
connected. After the disaster got rumoured about, Mr. Wein-
giirtner went to the scene of it, but not having been admitted,
went home and again tried to persuade Miss Gentes out of
her fears, which he thought groundless.
The disaster, well known to everybody in Berlin, had happened
at 2 p.m., and Miss Elsa Gentes had been involved in it, because,
contrary to arrangements, she had started for Blucher Str. by the
Underground, the quickest way to get there. The corpse could
not get identified before evening, as the girl had no "
Legitimation"
on her. The disaster was caused by one train hitting another on
its side at the so-called Gleis-Dreieck, on an "elevated" section of
the route, and pushing one car from the bridge down into the
street. A great number of people were killed.
Apart from the medium herself there are five possible wit-
nesses for the fact of this prediction having been uttered before
its fulfilment. Mr. Weingartner's testimony, given to me orally,
I have incorporated in the foregoing enlarged statement. As
to the hairdresser-woman, she has been lost sight of since, and
has become, I am told, an abandoned character, hardly worth
applying to. Her name being Schulz, the most common in
Germany, and in Berlin especially, she is practically ititrouvdble.
There remain Miss Gentes' mother, her sister Emmi Scholz,
married since ;
and her step-brother, Hermann Scholz. The
testimonies of these three are subjoined.
Mrs. Emmi Stammer, nee Scholz, wrote to me as follows:
"May 20, 1913.
"
In reply to your letter I will willingly describe to you,
to the best of my recollection, what happened in connection
with the death of my sister Elsa
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1914.
"
At that time I was engaged as a clerk in the offices of
H. Tietz in Leipziger Str. [another well-known and very large
department-store]. September 26, 1908, [being] a Saturday,
was a Jewish holiday, on which Tietz' establishment was closed.
I therefore was free for the day and able to spend it in my
sister's [Frieda Gentes'] shop in Alexander Str. We were very
jolly and decided to bake a plum-cake. I had fetched every-
thing necessary for it, and we started to unstone the plums,
when my sister Frieda grew very restless.
1
After we had been
chatting together for another while it may have been between
10 and 11 o'clock, she became quite excited and said: 'Our
Elsa dies, I have just seen her ;
one half of the face was blue ;
she dies.' As my sister Elsa was not ill, I reassured my sister,
and told her she was nervous. Meanwhile it had got to noon.
My brother [Hermann Scholz] now came, who at that time
was employed in A. Samulon's linen-factory in Magazine Str.
We told him of the vision, but he laughed at us. When he
came again after [his] closing time at 4 p.m., we had in the
interim heard of the disaster on the Underground Railway.
My sister now charged my brother to telephone to the Kauf-
haus des Westens, where my sister [Elsa] was employed at that
time. He returned and said he did not get connected. In
truth he had been told that my sister had not returned from
her dinner-recess. I reassured my sister Frieda, for I took it
for certain that my sister could not have used the Underground,
since my mother had intended to drive about noon to the
Kaufhaus des Westens, to buy linen, and besides was busy
packing for [our] moving. Yet my sister insisted :
'
Elsa is
dead, I have seen her.' Now she sent me home to fetch my
mother. The latter drove with me to the Kaufhaus des Westens,
to convince herself whether my sister was in the house. Not
having found her there, we drove to the scene of the disaster
and from there to the [various] hospitals. Thence we were sent
to the morgue, and there we found my sister, about 7 p.m.,
dead. Thus this prevision, so tragic for us, had been fulfilled.
This occurrence, it will readily be understood, has deeply
engraved itself on my recollection.
[Signed]
"
E. STAMMER."
1
Mrs. Stammer does not mention the episode of the hairdresser's entrance.
But the omission is not important evidentially.
APRIL, nil i. The Phenomena of Frieda Gentes. 221
I called on Mr. Hermann Scholz, Miss Gentes' step- brother,
on May 13, 1913, to obtain an account of his part in the
doings of September 26, 1908. He impressed me as a very
decent and orderly young man, and though his recollection
of details was not quite as clear as might have been desired,
he obviously was most careful to state nothing but what he
wus quite certain of. To make sure of the independent quality
of his testimony I enquired, before saying anything about my
errand, when he had last seen his step-sister, to which he
replied :
"
Four weeks ago." He knew nothing of my investiga-
tion as yet. To save time, I took down his statements from
his lips, and here give them practically verbatim, merely
arranging them into a continuous narrative and omitting my
questions.
"At that time" Mr. Scholz told me "I lived in Alexander
Str., two doors from my sister
[Frieda], and daily used to dine
with her. I was employed as a lift-man at Arthur Samulon's
linen-factory. Dinner-time was from 12-1, or 1.30, certainly
not later than that [Mr. Scholz, as a matter of fact, was not
quite certain on this point, and even consulted his wife, before
making his statement], and this time was adhered to punctually.
But on Saturdays [September 26, 1908, was a Saturday]
we were free only half-an-hour, because work then stopped at
4 p.m. On that day [Sept. 26, 1908] I, therefore, must
have returned to work at 12.30. [Mr. Scholz, in a later letter,
admitted this to be incorrect. See below.] When I went to
dinner, at 12, or immediately after 12 noon, I found my sister
terribly distracted. She was too restless to sit down for a
moment, but was rushing about in and out of the shop all
the time, the perspiration running down her face. She wept,
and told me to go home [i.e. to Mrs. Scholz, at 23, Bliicher Str.]
and see what had happened :
'
I am so restless, she said,
[it is] as if
something is going to happen in our family.'
[He does not, however, remember whether she told him of
any vision seen by her.] At 4 p.m. [when work was finished]
I again went to No. 10, Alexander Str. [the sister's shop].
I don't know whether she had already seen any
*
Extrablatt.'
But talk of the disaster may have reached her. She said :
'
Elsa has been involved in that ;
see whether you can find
out.' I marvelled at that, for I knew that Elsa had intended
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1914.
to dine at the Kaufhaus that day [and therefore had no
reason to use the Underground], but she said,
'
you just be
off/ while she stood in the street, wailing. So I went, first
to the scene of the disaster, where, however, no one was
admitted ;
then to a restaurant, where I enquired by telephone
at the Kaufhaus des Westens, whether my sister had returned
from dinner. I was told that she had not. Then I went to
the life-saving station on the Tempelhofer Ufer, from there to
the Women's Hospital in Gitschiner Str., and thence to the
Hospital on the Urban, always running. From the Urban I
went to the morgue. There I saw her, about 6 p.m. Then
I took a cab and went to my mother, and there, after closing
her shop, Frieda Gentes also came."
I wrote to Mr. A. Samulon, enquiring about the hour of
his lift-men's dinner-recess in 1908, and the regularity with
which it was kept, not mentioning, in my letter, Mr. Scholz'
statement. In reply Mr. Samulon wrote as follows :
May 21, 1913.
"
To the questions contained in your letter of May 19 I
reply as follows :
"
My staff gets one hour for dinner on week days, except on
Saturdays, viz. from 1-2 p.m. On Saturdays dinner-time is
limited to half-an-hour, viz. from 1-1.30 p.m., as on those
days we close at 4 p.m. Exceptions from this rule are only
made in case of sickness or of special permission, but I know
nothing of the lift-man Scholz on the day in question having
had an exceptional permission with regard to
[his]
dinner-
time-
[Signed]
"
ARTHUR SAMULON."
Being told of this letter, Mr. Scholz admitted the error in
his first statement. The fact, then, remains practically certain,
that his observation of Miss Gentes'
"
terribly distracted
"
state
refers to a time nearly one hour before the moment of the
disaster.
Mrs. Scholz (Miss Gentes' mother) told me that for some
days previous to the accident Miss Elsa Gentes had not been
coming home for dinner regularly, as the family were preparing
to move, and the household somewhat in a muddle. On the
morning of Sept. 26, 1908, Mrs. Scholz again told her daughter,
A i
-KII., 1914. Tin- Phenomena of Frieda Genten. 223
before she went out to her work, not to come home during
the midday-pause, as she (Mrs. S.) intended to go to some sale,
and this she repeated, when she saw her daughter, about noon
in the Kaufhaus, giving the additional reason that carpets
were to be beaten at home. Of Frieda Gentes' prediction and
excitement she heard between 4 and 4.30 (when Miss Emmi
Scholz came home from her visit at 10, Alexander Street),
and at first laughed at the idea, but after a while went out
to enquire.
I have seen the
"
Third Extra-Gazette
"
of the
"
Berliner
Lokal-Anzeiger," quite the
"
quickest
"
local paper, published
about 3.45, and dated "Saturday, September 26, 1908, evening,"
in which only 2 dead are given, of which one "male unknown."
The regular "Evening edition" mentions "13 dead," but gives
no more names than the
"
Extrablatt." The "
shutting off of the
whole locality by the police
"
is mentioned. The accident is
timed "
gegen 2 uhr," i.e.
"
shortly before, or about 2 p.m."
The first list of the dead sixteen in all was published in
the Sunday morning papers. I have seen it in the
"
Morgenpost,"
dated Sunday, Sept. 27, 1908: where "No. 3" of the list reads
"Elsa Gentes, genannt [called] Scholz, Bliicher Str. 23."
There are a few slight discrepancies between the various
statements given above. But they refer chiefly to the time
after 2 p.m., and hardly touch the main points to be settled.
They are, furthermore, easily accounted for by the facts reported
lying back more than four years.
SUPPLEMENTAKY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Books added to the Library since the last list, JOURNAL, December, 1912.
tt, Sir W. F., F.R.S., Swedenborg : The Savant and the Seer.
London, 1912.
n, Henri, An Introduction to Metaphysics. Authorised Trans-
lation by T. E. Hulme. London, 1913.
Bramwell, J. Milne, M.B., Hypnotism ;
its History, Practice, and Theory.
3rd edition. London, 1913.
Bisson, Madame Juliette, Les Phgnomenes dits de Materialisation.
Paris, 1914.
Bridger, A. E., M.D., Minds in Distress. London, 1913.
Carrington, Hereward, Personal Experiences in Spiritualism.
London, 1913.
- Handcuff Tricks. Kansas, U.S.A., 1913.
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. APRIL, 1914.
Carrington, Hereward, Side-Show and Animal Tricks. Kansas, U.S.A., 1913.
Dallas, H. A., Across the Barrier. London, 1913.
Dugas, L., and Moutier, F., La Depersonnalisation. Paris, 1911.
Fox, Charles D., M.D., The Psychopathology of Hysteria.
Boston, U.S.A., 1914.
Freud, Prof. Sigm., LL.D., The Interpretation of Dreams. Authorised
Translation by A. A. Brill, M.D. London, 1913.
Haynes, E. S. P., The Belief in Personal Immortality. London, 1913.
Hill, J. Arthur, Spiritualism. (The People's Books Series.)
London and Edinburgh, 1913.
tHude, Mrs. Anna, The Evidence for Communication with the Dead.
London, 1913.
Hiigel, Baron F. von, Eternal Life : a Study of its Implications and
Applications. Edinburgh, 1912.
*Hyslop, Prof. J. H., Psychical Eesearch and Survival. London, 1913.
*Jones, Dr. Ernest, Papers on Psycho-Analysis. London, 1913.
Krall, Karl, Denkende Tiere. Leipzig, 1912.
Lelut, L. F., Le Genie, la Eaison et la Folie. Le Demon de Socrate.
Paris, 1855.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Continuity. (Presidential Address to the British
Association.) London, 1913.
**Mackenzie, Dr. William, Alle Fonti della Vita. Genoa, 1912.
tMaskelyne, J. N., The Fraud of Modern "Theosophy" Exposed.
London, 1912.
tMoore, Vice-Admiral W. Usborne, The Voices. London, 1913.
Pitt, St. G. L. Fox, The Purpose of Education. Cambridge, 1913.
Robertson, Wm. P., Immortality and Life Eternal. London, 1913.
tSchrenck-Notzing, Dr. Freiherr von, Materialisations-Phanomene.
Munich, 1914.
^Seymour, St. John D., Irish Witchcraft and Demonology.
Dublin and London, 1913.
*Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., Hypnotism and Suggestion. 6th edition.
London, 1913.
Weston, Jessie L., The Quest of the Holy Grail. London, 1913.
* Presented by the Publishers. t presented b>
T
the Author.
** Presented by the Countess Martinengo Cesaresco.
No. CCCIX. VOL. XVI. MAY, 1914.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
A Case of Stigniatism ?
Fever Visions and Auditions. By J. Arthur Hill,
- 23.5
Note, J40
A CASE OF STIGMATISM?
THE following case was sent to us by a gentleman here called
Mr. B. Walker, the subject being his wife. Mr. Walker, who
lives in Spain, is a brother of an Associate of the S.P.R., and is
well known to us by correspondence. His true name and
address have been withheld at his request.
Mr. Walker's original statement of the case was as follows :
December 25, 1913.
To explain this case, which looks like one of stigmatism by auto-
suggestion, I must begin by relating a little of our family history.
In the spring and summer of 1911 I was suffering from gangrene
in the right leg, brought on, although this was not known at the
time, by arterio-sclerosis. The illness was a long one, lasting twelve
weeks, during the whole of which, since for various reasons it seemed
unwise to attempt amputation, not the slightest hope was enter-
tained for my life, the only question being how long I should hold
out. At the end of that time came a curious and inexplicable
improvement in my condition, in consequence of which the doctors
decided to amputate. The operation was successful, and after about
two months of convalescence I was comparatively well again. At
the time of the operation the doctors warned my wife and me that
there was always a possibility, not to say more, that the disease
might appear at some later date. Last July, two years after the
operation, I began to have some trouble with the great toe [of my
left
foot], into the details of which it is not necessary to enter. No
one seemed to know exactly what was the matter, but about the
middle of November both my wife and I thought it
practically
certain that gangrene would ensue.
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1914.
My wife is not what is usually called a psychic : she does not
write automatically, and can very rarely see anything in the crystal.
But she is very sensitive to mental impressions of all kinds, and with
the memory of my long and painful illness present to her, naturally
dwelt a good deal on the possibility of its repetition, and in spite
of every effort was unable to dismiss it from her mind. About three
weeks ago, while she had this fear always present to her, her
attention, while taking her bath, was attracted by something odd
about her toes, and she found that between each toe of the left foot
there was a patch of a bright blue-green colour of a pretty but
peculiar shade. Some much smaller and slighter patches also appeared
between the toes of the right foot. It should be borne in mind
that my trouble is with the great toe of the left foot. These
patches gave her no inconvenience of any kind, but soap and hot
water made no impression on them. The next time our doctor
came to see me, she expressed fear that gangrene was setting in in
my toe, after which she showed him the green patches and asked
whether there could be anything in a medicine she had been lately
taking that could produce such a result. He said certainly not, and
added that he had never seen any skin affection in the least
like it. She also has never had or seen anything like it before.
What makes us think that it may possibly be a case of auto-
suggestion is that, although she is of course perfectly aware that
gangrene is not green in colour, she always sub-consciously associates
it with that hue. She visualises very strongly, and often during the
last six weeks or so, on waking suddenly in the night, has seen the
word "gangrene" written up, always in green letters. The colour
of the patches is the same tone as that of a rug I use both night
and day, but much more vivid in shade.
She has had no opportunity of showing her toes to any medical
man other than Dr. K., a German M.D. who always attends us.
But he and I and our adopted daughter, Miss 0., who lives with
us, can testify to the facts. I also mentioned them in a letter I
wrote to my sister, Miss [Walker], when the colouring first appeared.
Our prognostications about the recurrence of the gangrene have
proved correct, and the toe is to be amputated in a couple of days.
The patches, which as I have said appeared about three weeks
ago, became somewhat fainter on Dec. 22nd, the day after the
amputation was decided on, possibly because my wife had been
increasingly anxious that the operation should not be delayed too
long, and her mind was somewhat relieved by the decision come to
at the consultation on Dec. 21st. But as the operation, which is
MAY, 1914. A Case of Stigmatism ? 227
attended by some risk on account of the condition of my arteries,
draws nearer, the colour has become as vivid as before, and has very
slightly extended in area.
[Signed] B. WALKER.
In reply to this statement, we wrote asking for corroborative
accounts from Mrs. Walker and Dr. K. Mrs. Walker wrote
as follows :
January 13, 1914.
On Thursday, December llth, 1913, I was expecting Dr. K. to
examine my husband's left foot, which was threatened with gangrene.
The active fear of this disease in that limb had been present in my
mind from about July 14th last, when a sudden attack of pain
under the knee, followed by other uncomfortable symptoms, had
warned me that mischief was going on. In July, 1911, when the
right leg was amputated for gangrene arising from arterio-sclerosis,
the doctors had told me there was reason to fear a recurrence of
the gangrene at some future date. Thus when I saw in July last
that the circulation had suddenly become impeded, I felt a con-
viction that sooner or later gangrene must appear and another
operation become inevitable. At that time Dr. K. was away on his
holiday, as were also Drs. [Y.] and M., the surgeons who have
been in consultation with Dr. K. at intervals since the first operation
in July, 1911, which Dr. M. performed. My husband did not
wish to call in any other medical man, as those mentioned were the
only ones here who were conversant with his case. I therefore had
the responsibility of treatment as well as of nursing during the three
weeks that my husband kept his bed and until Dr. K. returned
about six weeks later. On visiting my husband he found his general
condition good. There was no pain in the foot, but only excessive
coldness and a dark bluish appearance. He was then leading his
normal life, and Dr. K. thought I might safely go away for a
month's holiday, as I was suffering from severe neurasthenia, the
result of anxiety and too much writing, my right hand having been
for years past partly crippled by writer's cramp. When I returned
I felt dissatisfied with my husband's condition, and on November 14th,
at my request, Dr. K. held a consultation with Dr. M. I was then
told that the condition was grave owing to the advance of arterio-
sclerosis, that various complications might ensue, and that gangrene
beginning in the great toe was the most probable. Treatment with
a view to improving the circulation was ordered, and for the first
fortnight it seemed successful so much so that Dr. [Y.], who called
on November 29th, expressed hopes that the threatened gangrene
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1914.
might yet be staved off. After this, however, acute pain set in,
and on December 7th Dr. M., having again met Dr. K. in consultation,
told me that owing to the state of the arteries the case was very
grave indeed, although at the moment there was nothing to indicate
the need of amputation.
From November 14th I had been in a state of growing anxiety,
and had been up from two to five times every night, so that, being
unable to sleep in the day time, I was going very short of sleep,
while the daily dressing of the foot kept its condition continually
before my mind. During the night of December 10-1 1th I had resolved
to ask for another consultation, although I knew that both my hus-
band and Dr. K. thought my anxieties exaggerated and would oppose
it. I was in continual dread lest gangrene should set in and spread
as rapidly as it had done in the right leg in 1911, when there had
been over two months of intense suffering, during which it had
seemed that amputation would not save life. My husband in his
letter to the S.P.R. mentioned how an extraordinary improvement
in his general condition took place in the tenth week of that illness,
in consequence of which amputation was successfully performed and
he regained a certain degree of health. My reason for wishing to
have a consultation on Dec. llth was that Drs. [Y.] and M. only come
to [A ]
from H. for consultations on Thursday and Friday in
each week, so that it would be at least a week before they would be
in [A ] again. Thus Thursday, Dec. llth, was, I felt, a critical
day for me. I woke with a start in the night of the lOth-llth
and saw the word "
gangrene
"
in very large bright green letters
on the mosquito net at the foot of my bed. I had been doing this
occasionally (waking suddenly and seeing the word as described)
since July 14th and constantly since November 14th, and each time
there had been some fresh development of the illness. I therefore
determined again to make every effort to secure the consultation,
with a view to amputation the moment gangrene should declare
itself. Of course I know only too well what gangrene looks like,
and that it is not green; but some reminiscence of Shakespeare's
"green wounds" has always made me visualise the word as green
in these half-waking visions.
That morning on getting out of my bath I noticed something
odd about the small toe of my left foot, and found that there was a
vivid green stain on the inside of every toe, which no amount of
rubbing would remove. Similar stains, but lighter in colour and
smaller in area, also appeared on the right foot. The stains are
as nearly as may be described the colour of verdigris, and are
, 1914. A Case of Stigmatism? 229
between the toes. Only on the small toe of the left foot does the
stain run up far enough to be visible above.
I assumed that something in a Spanish syrup of liquorice which
I had been taking for a cold might be the cause, acting perhaps
on uric acid in a rheumatic constitution, although I had taken very
little of the medicine. Of course I at once eliminated the possi-
bility of dye from stockings. Before December llth I had been
wearing brown stockings, new but already washed ;
while some
new black ones of the same set, put on afterwards by mistake
without previous washing, dyed the soles of my feet slightly black
without a tinge of green. Moreover, that dye was immediately
removed by washing, whereas up to the date of writing (Jan. 13th)
no amount of soap and hot water has made the slightest impression
on the green stains. It may be worth mentioning that the rug
which my husband has used over his foot night and day for many
weeks past is of a peculiar blue-green colour, much the same tone
as the stains on my toes, but a good deal faded by the sun.
On December llth I found it impossible to persuade either my
husband or Dr. K. that another consultation was immediately neces-
sary. The foot was then warm and red, and it certainly seemed
absurd to talk of amputating a toe which appeared still quite alive.
Nevertheless I was convinced that if we did not have the consulta-
tion we should regret it, and I was so unhappy at the decision
not to call in Dr. [Y.] that week (Dr. M. was away from Spain)
that I submitted with a bad grace to showing Dr. K. at my
husband's request the green stains, which interested him more than
his own ailment. Dr. K. said he had never seen anything like
them, that nothing in any medicine he had prescribed for me could
have produced them, that the stains were under the skin (the
condition of which was otherwise quite normal), and thus could not
have been produced by any outside agency, and he said that he
would like Dr. [Y.] to see them if it became necessary to have
another consultation in the following week.
A day or two later my husband's foot had become so very much
worse that Dr. K. was obliged to order injections of morphia, and
from then to Dec. 18th, when we expected Dr. [Y.] to come to
A ,
the disease advanced with the rapidity that I had feared.
When we sent to his consulting room on Dec. 18th we found
that Dr. [Y.] was not expected again till
January 8th, by which
time I felt assured that my husband's life would be imperilled, not
only by the increasing pain and want of sleep, but by the quantity
of morphia he was compelled to take to get any ease at all.
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1914.
On Dec. 20th, however, much against my will owing to my great
anxiety, I went to play for the service at the English Church, the
organist having been suddenly called away and no one but myself
being available to take his place. To my surprise our Chaplain
told me that Dr. [Y.] was in A , having made a special journey
to see another patient, and a few minutes later he came into the
church. As soon as the service was over he came to see my
husband, and said that gangrene had set in, and the sooner an
operation could be performed the better. For various reasons this
had to be postponed until the following Saturday, December 27th,
and then it was found necessary to amputate the leg above the
knee. I was aware that there was an element of danger in giving
the chloroform, owing to the general condition of the arteries, and
for nearly a week after the operation certain symptoms kept me in
a state of continual nervousness as to what might happen.
At my husband's particular request, made two days before the opera-
tion, when he was writing to the S.P.R., I looked at the stains on my
toes as often as I could remember to do so during the following
week, and found them as vivid as ever. A few nights after the opera-
tion, when symptoms of heart trouble -made me especially nervous, I
woke and saw the word "gangrene" again, but this time it was a
long way off, not as before hung up like a sky sign at the foot of
my bed, and it was in small black print like the leaders in the Times.
Since then my husband has ,made steady progress, and I have
not visualised the word again at night. The green stains are,
however, as vivid as ever on the left foot, though they have almost
disappeared on the right. I am inclined to think that the six
months' anxiety about my husband's left foot has so deeply impressed
itself on my sub-consciousness that it
may be some time before this
apparently auto-suggested evidence of it disappears from my left
foot, although my waking self knows that in all human probability
no recurrence of the gangrene is possible.
I am a practical woman with a good head for business, but I have
always been extremely sensitive to mental impressions, visualise
with intense distinctness, and have had some previous psychical
experiences. [Signed] E. M. WALKER.
The following statement from Dr. K. was enclosed :
January 18, 1914.
I herewith certify that Mrs. B. [Walker] has shown me some
green patches between the toes of her feet, of which I am unable
to explain the cause for the moment. [Signed in full]
C. K.
MAY, 1914. A Case of Stic/matism ? 231
A medical man to whom we showed the preceding reports
suggested that the case might be one of chromidrosis (coloured
sweating), and we thereupon wrote again to Mr. Walker, telling
him of this suggestion and asking whether it was possible that
the marks on Mrs. Walker's toes had been there for some time
before they were discovered. He replied as follows :
February 16, 1914.
Your Doctor's suggestion of chromidrosis is
very interesting, and I
will take the first opportunity of speaking to Dr. K. about it. I
may say at once, however, that it is impossible that the stains can
have existed for any length of time without my wife seeing them :
she could not help noticing them when she washed her feet. It is
true that when the toes were in their natural position only one of
the marks was visible, but when they were pushed apart as they
must be for washing, they would all be seen immediately. They
extend from the junction of the toes nearly up to the lower joint, so
that their size and bright colour makes them conspicuous.
[Signed] B. WALKER.
A few days later we received through Mr. Walker the follow-
ing statement from Dr. K. :
February 23, 1914.
Chromidrosis, the suggested explanation of Mrs. W.'s skin trouble,
means a coloured discharge of the sweat glands. I know the name
from my studies at the University, but I have never met with a
case of it. The affection of the skin of Mrs. W.'s toes is not an
abnormal perspiration, but some green mark under the skin subcu-
taneous or hypodermic. If it was a trouble of the sweating glands
it should have disappeared with all the washing and scratching
*
Mrs. W. has applied at the beginning. [Signed] C. K.
Subsequently we received a further statement from Mrs.
Walker, as follows :
March 1, 1914.
I do not much care to write about the green stains on my feet,
as it seems to me such a ridiculous form of auto-suggestion. But
as you say you are interested I write to say that at last the marks
are diminishing.
I have been in constant anxiety about my husband since as well
as before his operation, for until the last week he was not regaining
strength as we had hoped, and was suffering a great deal from
neuralgic pains in both the amputated feet. So that, if the stains
were connected with that, I have not yet had much chance of
getting rid of them. But in the last week or so a marked change
iMr. Walker notes that Dr. K. means "rubbing." There has been no
scratching of the marks.
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1914.
for the better has set in. He is rapidly gaining strength, and the
alarming collapses mainly nervous, I think which made us so
anxious, seem to have disappeared ;
and the neuralgia is steadily
decreasing. And the marks on my feet are certainly decreasing
pari passu with my causes for anxiety. To-day I noticed that the
stains on my left foot are now only to be seen by pulling the toes
apart, whereas until lately they showed above them. Those on the
right foot are very much fainter and seem to be disappearing
altogether.
I don't know whether chromidrosis affects all the sweat glands or
whether it is local : but there has never been the slightest trace of
discoloration on any other part of my body. In the winter I per-
spire very little; but two days ago I got heated in the sun, and
my feet perspired in the ordinary way ; nevertheless, as I say, the
discoloration has diminished. In the left foot the decrease is in
the area alone ;
the colour is as bright as ever.
[Signed] E. M. WALKER.
As further evidence suggesting that the marks on Mrs.
Walker's feet are directly affected by her mental condition, Mr.
Walker writes :
March 17, 1914.
On the morning of March 10th my wife told me that she had
been rather worried last night by matters unconnected with the
state of my health nothing of great moment, but small worries
always bulk large during a sleepless night and in the morning the
green stains, which had almost disappeared, were again as bright as
ever, although the area of them had not increased. I made a note
of this at the time. To-day she said that the marks had almost
disappeared, though in what remains of them the colour is un-
changed. [Signed] B. WALKER.
In reply to a question regarding Mrs. Walker's general health,
Mr. Walker wrote :
March 30, 1914.
For the last six months my wife's health has been exceptionally
good, in spite of broken nights and a period of great anxiety while
I was ill. Since October she has been better and stronger than
at any time during the twenty-eight years that we have been
married. I forget if I told you her age : it was 57 last month.
I enclose her report on a slight recrudescence of the marks,
which took place about a fortnight ago.
[Signed] B. WALKER.
Mrs, Walker's report is as follows :
March 30, 1914.
My husband has been steadily improving in health for the last
month, and is now stronger in every way than we ever hoped he
could be again. In proportion as I have been growing more and
more free from anxiety the green marks have lessened, and now only
one faint shadow remains on the big toe of the left foot.
MAY, I'.MI. A Case of Sticpmatism? 233
A fortnight ago, owing to a change in his regimen, my husband
had a sudden set-back, which lasted about 24 hours. On the
morning after the attack I noticed a small spot [about the size of
a small pea] of vivid green on the top of the small toe of my
right foot, wnere no mark has ever appeared before. Next day my
husband returned to his former regimen, and his circulation again
became normal. The new spot, like all the other marks, has now
disappeared. [Signed] E. M. WALKER.
With regard to the suggestion that the case is one of
chromidrosis, it does not seem to be at all easy to form a
definite conclusion. Chromidrosis is a very rare disease, and
the information to be obtained about it is scanty and not
very definite. The symptoms described by Mr. and Mrs.
Walker (confirmed by Dr. K.) do not correspond to those
usually associated with chromidrosis. In Segueira's Diseases
of the Skin (p. 490) we find the following brief description:
Many of the recorded cases of coloured sweating are doubtless
impostures, but there are a few authentic instances. The face,
eyelids, cheeks, forehead, and (rarely) the hands and feet are
affected. The sweat may be dark brown or black. . . . Blue
sweating from pyocyanin and green, yellow and red varieties have
been recorded.
Kaposi (Diseases of the Skin, p. 117) says :
The term chromidrosis is applied by writers to those cases in
which the sweat has a yellow, green, black or blue colour. The blue
colour has been attributed to a cyanate combination analogous to
Fordos' pyocyanin, to a microscopic fungus whose gonidiae nuclei
have a blue colour, also to Indian and Berlin blue.
In the Dublin Quarterly Journal of Medical Science, 1869,.
there is an account by Dr. Foot of a case of chromidrosis
which came under his observation, the patient being a young
girl. Dr. Foot thus defines chromidrosis :
The term chromidrosis is a general one, comprehending any dis-
colouration of any part of the external skin, which is due to the
exudation of a special pigment, black, brown, blue, or yellow pro-
vided that the discolouration be on the outer surface of the skin,
susceptible of removal by friction and of being reproduced after a
variable interval of time.
All the published reports that we have seen speak of the
pigment being exuded from the skin ;
it is confined in most
cases to the face, especially the eyelids ;
the subjects are
usually quite young women, and the disease is frequently
accompanied by hysterical symptoms of various kinds.
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1914.
These reports, it will be observed, differ in one important
particular from the account given above of Mrs. Walker's
symptoms. They speak of the pigment being
"
exuded from
the skin,"
"
susceptible of removal by friction," whereas in the
case of the marks on Mrs. Walker's feet it is said that
"
soap and hot water made no impression on them
"
and "
no
amount of rubbing would remove them." Dr. K. confirms
this in his statement that the green marks are
"
under the
.skin."
But evidently the above statements about chromidrosis are
not exhaustive. Dr. Agnes Savill, whose opinion we asked on
the case, writes as follows :
March 9, 1914.
... It [chromidrosis] is a very rare condition I have only once
seen a case, a blue green colour about the toes. It may last
months and disappear of its own accord. It is
usually met with in
nervous women, the type who could develop stigmata. Its cause is
obscure. Sometimes it can be seen as a powdery deposit on the
skin ;
sometimes no amount of rubbing and washing can remove it.
Some authorities hold that it is the sebaceous gland's oily secretion;
others the majority that it is the sweat. Yet it does not occur
in markedly perspiring patients ;
so that it is no ordinary perspira-
tion complication.
The fact that it occurs usually in nervous women who are in a
depressed or nervous state, may perhaps point to its being dependent
on the state of the nerves, and it may have a similar origin to that
of stigmata. It is too rare for much to be known about it. ...
[Signed] AGNES SAVILL, M.D.
It will be observed that the case of chromidrosis which
has come under Dr. Savill's observation, corresponds in general
appearance to Mrs. Walker's symptoms, and Dr. Savill notes
that there may be cases of chromidrosis which no amount of
rubbing or washing will remove. On the other hand, Dr.
Savill's concluding remarks suggest that perhaps the two explana-
tions of this case which have been put forward, chromidrosis
and "
stigmatism by auto-suggestion/' are not mutually exclu-
sive. If chromidrosis is
"
dependent on the state of the
nerves
"
and "
may have a similar origin to that of stigmata,"
is it not possible that we have in Mrs. Walker's case an
instance of chromidrosis precipitated, so to speak, and localised
by her mental preoccupation at the time ? It is noteworthy
that whereas in chromidrosis the pigment may be of several
different colours and may appear in various parts of the body
ui. A Case of Stigmatism? 235
(usually the face), in Mrs. Walker's case both the colour and
the area affected were such as auto-suggestion might, under
the circumstances, be expected to produce.
The case raises several questions of interest, and we print
it in the hope that some of the medical members of the
Society may be inclined to consider it and give us the advan-
tage of their opinions on it.
FEVER VISIONS AND AUDITIONS.
BY J. ARTHUR HILL.
SCIENCE supposes all careful records of facts to be important,
if the proper connections can be discovered. And the way to
discover them is to have plenty of records, so that gaps shall
be narrowed, and continuity approached. In psychology, many
facts are still anomalous, apparently chaotic and with no dis-
coverable meaning, e.g.
the ordinary dream. It is therefore
to be wished that prolific dreamers who remember their dreams
and can record them accurately along with comments on possible
predisposing causes, etc., should follow the excellent example
set by Dr. van Eeden, who gave an interesting report in
Part LXVIL of our Proceedings.
Similarly with waking hallucinations. These rarer experiences
must have some sort of scientific interest, even though we
cannot at present see any use in the contemplation of them.
It is a matter of faith, faith in science, in the rationality and
meaning-fulness of all facts. This faith induces me not without
hesitancy, though to contribute the following record.
In June, 1913, I had a sharp attack of Eussian influenza.
There were no symptoms of cold no catarrh, sore throat,
cough and the whole thing was fever pure and simple. The
temperature began to run up about midnight on May 31-
June 1, and was 102 about eight hours later, when the
doctor began to dose me with "salicylate of soda. At 10 a.m.,
June 2, it was 103'S, and the next morning 104'5. After
this it came down, with various oscillations ;
not only the usual
"
evening up and morning down," but also fluctuations which
seemed to be a kind of rhythmic pulse of the fever itself.
At the top of each of these waves there was a drench of
sudden perspiration and a drop of temperature almost like a
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1914.
pneumonia crisis, then a gradual climb up again. After a day
or two of salicylate, I was put on quinine, and this may
account partly for the noises, though I never had any
"
ringing
"
in the ears ;
whether the headache and woolly feeling were
due to the fever or the quinine, or both, I do not know. The
temperature touched normal on June 5 ;
remained so a few
hours, and began to climb again. A relapse followed, and
five weeks in bed ;
but though the temperature again approached
105, I had no more hallucinations. Those were chiefly on
June 3 and 4. In the relapse-period I had no quinine or
salicylate. I copy the following from pencil notes made June 5,
as soon as I was able to write. During the hallucination
period, I tried to fix on my memory everything I saw, with
a view to making a record as soon as strength permitted. I
never lost consciousness, and was not delirious. My nurses
say that I always seemed quite rational. But I did not tell
them about the busy time I was having subjectively !
Vague floating half-human faces emerged from nowhere and
advanced upon me : one of them with three eyes and no nose,
others with queerly bulging and hillocky foreheads and sunken
cheeks. None of them recalled any face that I had ever seen.
They seemed to advance until quite close to me, then vanished
or melted into something else. Once, and once only, a face
that was beautiful appeared. None of them spoke. Indeed
they seemed sluggish and half-alive creatures, with no "
specu-
lation
"
in their eyes. They did not cause anything approaching
horror, certainly no fear. I knew they were hallucinatory, for
they appeared only when my eyes were shut, and even then
I could to some extent control and even dismiss them,
temporarily, by an effort of will. My feeling was one of mild
curiosity, with slight repulsion when the face was deformed.
They did not seem malevolent.
Then I saw great book-cases. These mighty structures arose
somewhere afar off, loomed up and advanced upon me, then
slid smoothly away to the left, one after the other, scores of
them. The majority had cupboards in their lower portion,
and on the doors were sometimes words, or hieroglyphics of
some sort. In one case they looked like a series of Hebrew
letters, but I could not read them. (I never had more than
the merest smattering of Hebrew, and I have now forgotten
even most of the alphabet.) On one panel I saw the word
MAY, 1914. Fever Visions and Auditions. 237
Key, in English, and I thought that the cupboard or book-
case contained the key of some locked mystery of cipher
writing or what not a Kosetta stone interpreting ancient and
hidden records.
All were seen with shut eyes. I never saw anything with
open eyes except a few times when they were not widely
open, the lids thus shutting out part of the room and lessening
my awareness of locality. In these conditions a hallucination
would build itself up on a basis of half-perceived reality, being
thus illusion rather than hallucination, though the perception
was abnormal in that the object would not have produced the
illusion in my normal consciousness. For instance, the bars
in the back of a chair would become a gate, and a green
cushion beyond, seen between the bars, became a meadow.
My liveliest time was through the ears. The racket was
not really disturbing, for I was not forced to attend to it, but
whenever I liked to listen the entertainment was always in
full swing. First, there was always a barrel-organ which
usually played God be with you till we meet again, and as I
do not know it very well though I did, fifteen years ago
it often played several lines before I recognised the tune.
There was another instrument, I couldn't tell what, which
obligingly played anything I wanted. Then there were people
always talking, never to me but to each other, and I could
overhear their conversation if I liked. But it wasn't very
interesting. They were English, always, and did not seem very
original did not present any new points of view. However,
they were always cheerful, in a quiet way. This quietness
was a peculiar and striking feature. There was a sort of sub-
duedness about all these auditory phenomena which I clearly
noted at the time. It was a racket, as I have said ;
but rather
because of its medley than because of the noise. In most
cases, this curious muffled or muted quality of the sounds would
have been enough to differentiate them from real sounds, but
in other cases there was a close approach to reality. For
instance, I heard a lot of imaginary trains, also winds. Non-
existent trains ran into stations, by thousands ;
non-existent
winds rushed and blew and swished, now rising and now falling,
round the house. These trains and winds were so real to me
that I repeatedly asked if it was windy outside, but was told
that it was not. I also asked if extra trains were running
g
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1914.
(a railway line is near, and trains audible), but it was not so.
The trains on the near-by branch line are infrequent, sometimes
two hours between ;
but I heard a train every few minutes.
I could always hear people talking in other rooms of the
house. Sometimes I knew it was hallucinatory, knowing that
the room in question was empty, but sometimes I didn't.
E.g. my nurse said one night :
"
I'll give you your medicine
now." She went out. I then heard her talking to my sister,
the latter replying. I could not make out the words, but the
tones of their voices were clearly recognisable. I thought,
angrily, "Why has she gone into my sister's room, waking
her up like this ? She must have failed to get full instruc-
tions before the household settled for the night, as she ought
to have done." I was very angry. As a matter of fact, the
nurse had not been into the room in question at all ;
she only
went just outside my own, to a little table where the
medicines, etc., were ranged.
To some extent the sounds could be influenced. E.g. if I
expected to hear something, I heard it.
Evidently there was
greatly increased suggestibility," for I am not normally a
suggestible subject. One morning I awoke, and said to
myself :
"
It will be about six o'clock." At that time a local
mill-whistle goes. I thought :
"
The mill- whistle will be going
soon." Almost at once I heard it, three times.
"
Just
guessed !
"
I said to myself. Then I looked at my watch. It
was 4.30 ! No local whistles go at that time.
Two of the talking people who were always there had very
strong baritone voices, and were always quarrelling and
shouting, though the noise was as if dulled by some muting
substance, as if I had had cotton wool in my ears. I think
this was a reminiscence of the response-chanting of two priests
or alternate verse-reading heard at High Mass in Notre
Dame many years ago ;
I have a good memory for voices,
and have a keen appreciation of quality in the tones of ordinary
speech, and these two priests' voices dwell in my normal
memory still. Sometimes the two hallucinatory voices turned
into a hollow baritone rattling as of a nutmeg in a dry cocoa-
nut shell, greatly magnified.
One curious experience was the vision of a man and woman
queerly dressed, standing in front of me, the man making
rhythmic motions with his hands near my head, which was
MAY, 1914. Fever Visions and Auditions. 239
aching badly. The couple wore feather headdresses, and colours
of barbaric vividness in their clothes. The man had some sort
of leather jerkin on, elaborately ornamented. I had the
impression that they were Aztecs or Incas, and that the man
was making magnetic passes to relieve my headache. I thanked
them cordially (mentally only, of course). I don't remember
whether the headache was relieved or not.
P.S. Reading the account now, as I copy it (January, 1914),
I am impressed by the obvious abnormality of everything, a fact
which bears out Mr. Piddington's conclusions regarding the
generic difference between "
visceral
"
and psychical hallucina-
tions (Proceedings, Vol. XIX., p. 267 and foil). In all or
nearly all the experiences, there was something which would
have served to distinguish the perception from reality, even if
the hallucination had involved other senses. If the creatures
seen had become visible to the open eye, externalised in space
and even apparently bearing special relation to external objects,
and if they had spoken and touched me, I should still have
been aware at least I think I should of their subjective
nature. As long as any reasoning power remained, I should
have known that beings with three eyes and no nose could
not really be present in my bedroom. Mr. Piddington quotes
many cases from Dr. Head, of visceral hallucinations, which
almost always were of morbid type, bodies without legs, or
other abnormalities of various kinds. Psychical hallucinations,
on the contrary, seem more like ordinary experience. They
generally present no un-human or distorted features, and indeed
are often mistaken for reality, when the surroundings permit.
After writing the above, I happen to receive a letter from
an artist friend who lives at a distance, and whom I had not
told about my hallucinations. He discusses his own visualising
faculty, which he has cultivated to a high degree of effectiveness,
but says that he sees his visualised objects only with closed
eyes, and cannot project them out into real space. Consequently
they always remain definitely subjective. On the auditory
side, however, which he does not cultivate, he thinks he always
has tunes running in his head, though he hears them only
when all is quiet, and they are almost indistinguishable from
real sounds.
"
I find it possible to come far nearer to the
illusion of objective hearing at will than I can to objective
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. MAY, 1914.
seeing. . . . When all is quiet at night I can '
hear
'
well-known
melodies (sounding as though far away, but perfectly clear in
every note and inflexion) at will." He recognises that the
pulse-beat in head or ears supplies the basis of the rhythm,
but it often happens that he is annoyed by a misfit, some
solemn and stately music presenting itself, but having to go
at a jiggy rate- He then changes it with an effort. But the
point is that in his normal experience, as in my abnormal one,
auditory subjectivisms approach nearer to pseudo-objectivity
than the visual ones. I should expect it to be so in my own
case, for I am a poor visualiser and also short-sighted, and
have been more occupied with music than with pictorial art.
But the a priori probabilities in the case of my artist friend
seem the other way.
The points in which my hallucinations agreed with those
of visceral type described by Dr. Head, are :
Partialness no legs or arms.
Beardlessness of all faces (a curious fact, for which I
cannot account).
Indistinctness of sex : faces would do for either man or
woman.
Speechlessness the figures never spoke.
Distortion or unpleasant expression.
My experiences differed, however, from the visceral type in
including definite colours, and in causing no fear or start ;
also in the articulateness of the auditory phenomena. (" Hal-
lucinations of hearing, occurring in sane persons suffering from
visceral disease, are never articulate voices," Dr. Head, quoted
at p, 306 of Mr. Piddington's paper just mentioned.)
My visual experiences were perhaps more nearly allied to
illusions hypnagogigues than to hallucinations, being seen with
shut eyes ; but, on the other hand, they seem psychologically
more allied to hallucinations proper, for the auditory phenomena
were definitely hallucinatory, and I never have illusions
hypnagogiqiws in my normal state.
NOTE.
The list of Members and Associates elected at the last Meeting
of the Council, and the report of that Meeting and of the Private
Meeting of the Society, on March 27th, 1914, are held over, for
want of space, until the next issue of the Journal.
No. CCCX. VOL. XVI. JUNE, 1914.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
OONTBNT8.
PAOB
New Members and Associates, -'42
Meetings of the Council, .... . 243
Private Meeting for Members and Associates,- 244
General Meeting, ... -244
On the So-called Thinking Animals. By F. C. 8. Schiller, D.Sc., - - - - 244
A Psycho-Analyst on Psychical Research. By V. J. Woolley, M.D., - - 248
Reviews, 250
Notes on Current Periodicals, 254
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT THE HOUSE OF
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE
(in the Robert Barnes Hall),
i WIMPOLE STREET, LONDON, W.
(Entrance in Henrietta Street),
On MONDA Y, JUNE 2Oth, 1914, at 4.30 p.m. ^
\
WHEN A
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
F. C. S. SCHILLER, D.Sc.
N.B. Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member
or Associate is allmved to invite ONE friend.
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1914.
NEW MEMBEKS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Bourbon, Dr. Henri, 17 rue Cernuschi, XVIIe Arrt., Paris.
Forman, Josef, 28 Lowndes Square, London, S.W.
Grenfell, Field-Marshal Lord, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., Overstone Park,
Northampton.
Grigsby, Miss E. B., 80 Brook Street, London, W.
Hicks, Miss Lucy, 50 Cambridge Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Peck, Miss C. L., Maidencombe House, St. Mary Church, S.
Devon.
Phillips, B. J., 73 Ashburnham Koad, Luton, Beds.
BURTON, Miss L. M., 26 Deans Walk, Gloucester.
CAIRD, MRS. HENRYSON, 34 Woronzow Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W.
CHAPMAN, E. G., Belsize, Friern Watch Avenue, N. Finchley,
London, N.
DEICHMANN, BARONESS, Abbey Lodge, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
GARRETT, J. H. E,, Courtlands, Hay ward's Heath.
GIBSON, PROFESSOR W. R. BOYCE, University of Melbourne,
Australia.
HAWKER, MRS. GEORGE, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
HAWKER, Miss ELIZABETH, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
HILLMAN, E. HAVILAND, 4 Somers Place, Hyde Park, London, W.
JUTSUM, J. ARTHUR, 6 Cowley Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
LA GRANGE, H. R., 43 Winder Street, Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
LIBRARIAN, Leland Stanford Junior University, California, U.S.A.
MAITLAND, A. HERIOT, Bart. Mitre 427, Buenos Aires.
M'LAUCHLAN, G. M., c/o B. A. Hignett, Esq., St. Brannocks, Mount
Grove, Birkenhead.
MORRILL, DR. FRANK G., Havana, 111., U.S.A.
MOSS-BLUNDELL, F. B., 28 George Street, Richmond, Surrey.
SEABRE, ALBERT, M.D., rue de Lisbonne 44, Paris.
SELLERS, Miss R. A., Wellesley Girls' High School, Naini Tal,
India.
SINCLAIR, Miss MAY, 1 Blenheim Road, St. John's Wood, Lon-
don, N.W.
WEINGAERTNER, F. C., 187 Grove Street, Liverpool.
.MM:, i -.MI.
Meeting* of the Council. 243
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 127th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, March 27th, 1914, at 6 p.m.;
THE PRESIDENT, DK. F. C. S. SCHILLKH, in the chair. There
were also present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, The Eight Hon.
G. W. Balfour, Sir William F. Barrett, Mr. E. N. Bennett,
Mr. G. Lowes Dickinson, The Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir
Lawrence Jones, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr.
Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Dr. C. Lloyd
Tuckey, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also
Miss Alice Johnson, Kesearch Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Five new Members and eleven new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
Mr. Maurice Maeterlinck was elected a Corresponding Mem-
ber of the Society.
The monthly accounts for January and February, 1914,
were presented and taken as read.
Professor L. P. Jacks was co-opted as a Member of the
Council.
THE 128th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, May 14th, 1914, at 6 p.m.;
THE PRESIDENT, DR. F. C. S. SCHILLER, in the chair. There
were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rev. M. A. Bay-
field, Mr. E. N. Bennett, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir Lawrence
Jones, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. H.
Arthur Smith, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and
Dr. V. J. Woolley ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Kesearch Officer,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Two new Members and nine new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for March and April, 1914, were
presented and taken as read.
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNK, 1914.
PEIVATE MEETING FOE MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 49th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, March 27th, 1914, at 4 p.m.;
THE PRESIDENT, DR. F. C. S. SCHILLER, in the chair.
THE EIGHT HON. GERALD W. BALFOUR read a paper 011
"
Some Eecent Scripts Affording Evidence of Personal Survival."
GENEEAL MEETING.
THE 142nd General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Council Chamber at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on
Friday, April 24th, 1914, at 8.30 p.m.; DR. C. LLOYD TUCKEY
in the chair.
DR. MORTON PRINCE read a paper on "
Certain Spiritistic
Phenomena and Subconscious Activities."
ON THE SO-CALLED THINKING ANIMALS.
BY F. C. S. SCHILLER, D.Sc.
THE chief article in the Archives de Psychologic, No. 52,
December, 1913, is a clear and full report, by Dr. W.
Mackenzie of Genoa, on "
The Problem of the Thinking Dog
of Mannheim," who is alleged to perform intellectual feats
that excel the record of the celebrated Elberfeld horses. Dr.
Mackenzie not only describes his visit to Mannheim and three
sittings with the dog in September last, but also gives a full
history of the case.
Its hero, Eolf, is a Mannheim lawyer's Airedale terrier, now
about three years old, who has been systematically educated by
his mistress (who is an invalid) to express his ideas and
wishes by a code of taps, which he raps on a piece of card-
board with his left paw. This education was undertaken (in
ignorance of the
"
thinking horse
"
experiments) in consequence
of his behaviour one day in December, 1911, while Frau
Moekel was giving an arithmetic lesson to her little daughter.
The girl having failed to add 122 + 2, her mother, to shame
her, said,
"
I am sure Eolf could do it better than you. Eolf,
.i INK, 1914. On the So-Called Thinking Animal)*. 245
what is 2 -f 2 ?
"
Whereupon the dog is said to have tapped
her four times on the arm. This led to the establishment of
a code of taps standing for letters (or syllables, the same
number standing e.g. for
"
1
"
and "
el "), which Rolf accepted
and has since used consistently, only adopting the improve-
ment that a pause after a stroke makes it mean 10 instead
of 1. By means of this code Rolf, who usually sits beside
his mistress on a chain lying loose in her lap (to prevent his
running away from his "work"), is said to have given the
most incredible proofs of his animal intelligence. Not only did
he become so good at arithmetic that the children employed
him to do their sums for them, but he has shown himself
capable of lying and joking and displayed a sense of humour
of a high order. For example, on one occasion he refused
to
"
work," and on being asked why he would not, responded,
"doctor has forbidden." So he was told to propound a
problem to the lady who was visiting him. He promptly rapped
out 9 + 5. The lady said "13." Rolf rapped out "No."
"14." "No." "15." "No." "
Well, then, tell me yourself."
"14." "But I said that too."
"
Teazed." Finally the lady
asked what she could do to please him, whereupon he spelt
out w(o)d(o)ln (wag tail) !
Dr. Mackenzie discusses and denies the possibility of giving
signals to Rolf by pulling his chain, and carried out some
experiments which exclude this (if the conditions were as
reported). He prepared four pictures, enclosed them in
envelopes and drew one out at random, but in such a way
that he believes that neither he nor Frau Moekel, nor any one
else, could have seen it, except Rolf. Under these conditions
on two successive days Rolf correctly described the picture
drawn each time. There were only four of these experi-
ments, but it happened that one of the pictures was drawn
twice ;
it was described differently, as a square the first time,
as a cube the second !
Among the performances of Rolfs which Dr. Mackenzie
relates at second hand, one of the best is his interview with the
Catholic priests, who interrogated him as to his religious views,
and found to their surprise and delight that he was perfectly
orthodox ! On being asked, however, by his master where he
had got his theological knowledge from, he candidly replied,
"
Catechism Fritz," and, according to another questioner, his
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1914.
personal views are by no means orthodox. Being asked
"
What is an animal ?
"
he answered,
"
Part of primary soul,"
and explained death as a return to this
"
Urseele." His self-
consciousness would seem to be attested by the distinction he
makes between the name he is called ("Kolf" and that which
he calls himself, "Lol"), and altogether he is clearly a dog
who is a philosopher that would have delighted Plato, even
though the latter might not have approved of his denning the
highest good as
"
eating salmon."
As regards the theoretic interpretation of these results Dr.
Mackenzie is disposed to appeal to the
"
unconscious mind
"
theory of Thomson Jay Hudson (whom he erroneously calls
Houston), and it must be admitted that the evidence of spon-
taneous will and thought seems too strong to ascribe it either
to any mode of signalling (conscious or unconscious) or to tele-
pathy. But psychical researchers, who are familiar with the
deceptiveness of appearances, will probably regard all such
theorizing as decidedly premature, until the facts themselves
have been established under more stringent and convincing con-
ditions, for it seems clear that so far the conditions have not
sufficiently guarded against all the various sources of error
that beset psychical research. It is difficult to rule out all
the possibilities of conscious or unconscious deception. Moreover,
the type of experiment that has been tried with the
rt
think-
ing animals
"
of Germany is not particularly good : it is
neither calculated to conciliate a hostile bias, such as the
professorial class are bound to have, nor yet to persuade the
open-minded. For it is quite a mistake to consider mathematical
problems as the best and severest tests of intelligence merely
as such. They are not tests likely to appeal most to the animal
mind, and they are not particularly difficult to baffle by a
system of signalling. On the contrary, supposing such to be the
clue to the mystery, it would merely be necessary for the
animal to know the signal
"
stop," in order to do his sum
right, without understanding his answer at all. Nor can
experiments which depends on no one else's having the know-
ledge the animal produces ever be quite convincing. There
will always be a possibility that the investigator was mistaken
in thinking that he had taken adequate precautions.
What is wanted is that the animal should spontaneously
JUNE, 1914. On the So-Called Thinking Animals. 247
(tct on the knowledge presented to him, and so convince every
one that he understands its meaning. Professors Claparede and
Larguier des Bancels, who append to Dr. Mackenzie's paper
a brief confirmation of the latter's results and a description of
two seances they had with Rolf last December, in which they got
two more successful picture tests, suggest a much better type
of experiment, which they were unfortunately not able to try,
because the dog fell ill. They argue that acts are better proofs
of intelligence than words, and that as Rolf is supposed to be
capable of reading, he should be shown a placard stating that
"
there is
sugar for you outside the door
"
;
if thereupon Rolf
demanded to be let out and proceeded to look for the sugar,
no one could doubt that he had really understood the message,
after quite a few experiments.
In other words, the controversy which is now raging on the
Continent as to the
"
thinking
"
of animals, and bids fair to con-
tinue interminably, because it is treated as a religious question,
and neither side studies the case of the other, cannot be settled
by merely theoretic tests. The alleged
"
thoughts
"
of animals
have to be attested by their acts. This leads us back unex-
pectedly to the view that the real test of knowledge, and the
severest and most conclusive test to which knowledge can possibly
be subjected, is the pragmatic. Merely
"
theoretic
"
tests always
leave loop-holes for doubts ;
but there is no disputing that if the
supposed knowledge can be used to guide action, it must be
genuinely there. Thus, the whole dispute about animal thinking
could be ended, like so many other academic disputes, by
applying the pragmatic test in half an hour. But the history
of mankind shows that it is more likely, like the dispute about
other forms of the supernatural, to continue to drag its weary
length across the centuries. Herr Krall and the friends of
animal thought will publish in the new Zcitsehrift, Tierscele,
they are devoting to the cause, all that tells in favour of
their interpretation, and will invent a priori metaphysics from
which it can be deduced : their opponents will continue to argue
a priori that the alleged facts cannot occur because they are
contrary to die Wissenschaft, and they have long taught this ;
while, as one of them has already declared, the question of
how the trick is done, is
"
a fourth class problem
"
unworthy
of a truly scientific mind. And they will not go to see the
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1914.
animals. But 1 do not see why in this dispute the psychical
researcher should not be the tertius gaudens. Unlike the
orthodox psychologist he has no prejudices to get rid of, and
no scientific reputation to imperil; while, if the whole thing
turns out to be but one more form of subtle illusion, he can feel
that he has at any rate learnt something from it. It is to be
hoped, therefore, that our Society will join the Swiss psychologists
in keeping a watchful eye on all these
"
thinking animals,"
and lose no opportunity of investigating them that may present
itself.
A PSYCHO-ANALYST ON PSYCHICAL EESEAKCH.
By V. J. WOOLLEY, M.D.
AN article bearing the attractive title,
"
The Freudian Psychology
and Psychical Kesearch," by Leonard T. Troland, concludes the
eighth volume (No. 6, February-March, 1914) of the Journal of
Abnormal Psychology. As the writer admits that his acquaint-
ance with the views of psychical researchers is
"
relatively super-
ficial," he to some extent disarms criticism, and one can only
express regret that he did not carry his studies of the subject
somewhat deeper before committing himself on paper. He
might in that case have avoided among other things the state-
ment that
"
the proof of spiritism depends upon the ability
of the individual to give a correct, unbiassed account of his
own experiences." If there is one investigation more than
another which demands the most minute and detailed checking
of the individual's experiences by outside evidence of every
kind, it is perhaps psychical research, and it is mainly for that
checking that our Society exists. Another singular statement
is that the
"
psychical researcher finds in the visions of the
dying an insight into the nature of life after death." It is
true that various investigators have recorded such visions when
they were found to have been veridical, but such cases are no
more easy to account for on the Freudian hypothesis than on
any other. If the visions are not capable of some kind of
testing in relation to known facts, they would seem to offer
no scope for psychical research in the ordinary sense of the
word.
But Mr. Troland does not feel any difficulty in settling the
JUNK, 1914. A Psycho-Analyst on Psychical Research. 249
whole question.
"
A casual examination," he says,
"
of the
cases cited in Myers' Hitman Personality leads the writer to
believe that after we have eliminated those explicable by param-
nesia and repressed information, the number of striking coin-
cidences which remain will not be such as to do injustice to
the laws of probability." After that there does not seem to
be much more to say about Psychical Research, at any rate
in relation to Mr. Troland, but as he claims some knowledge
of Freudian Psychology, and does not in this case confess to
any superficiality, it is interesting to consider what is his con-
ception of Freud's discoveries. This conception is so peculiar
that I do not feel that any summary by me would do him
justice, and I must quote a few sentences in full :
"
On the basis of the Freudian hypothesis we should
expect that the most grossly immoral subconsciousnesses
would be possessed by those persons who in their supra-
liminal activities are the most guileless ;
conscientious
clergymen when under the influence of their suppressed
complexes should exhibit highly villainous tendencies. On
the other hand, rakes and cut-throats, when intoxicated or
dreaming, should be pure-minded and gentle."
Are we to understand that these expectations have been ful-
filled in Mr. Troland's experience, or is the statement an argument
against the acceptance of what he believes to be the Freudian
hypothesis ?
Apparently he wishes us to understand the former,
as he goes on to argue that those persons who are usually
considered to be the most impeccable witnesses are by reason
of their uprightness the most to be suspected
"
in so far as
the results in question are supposed to be dependent upon the
subliminal rather than the supraliminal self." I do not pro-
pose to enter here on any discussions of Freud's hypotheses :
I can only say that, so far as I am aware, he has never put
forward any view from which any deduction of this kind can
possibly be made. With regard to the corollary concerning
trustworthy witnesses, it may be pointed out that, as a rule,
in any psychical investigation, the evidence of the percipient
or medium is the least important portion of the whole. What
is much more considered is the evidence of other persons
who were told of the abnormal occurrence before any informa-
tion could have reached the percipient in a normal way.
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1914.
On the question of experimental telepathy, the quite just
but not novel criticism is put forward that where the agent
and percipient are in the same room, it is impossible to exclude
unconscious auditory signals. This fact has mainly brought
about the abandonment of this type of experiment for some
years past, but Mr. Troland does not seem to have heard of
the later experiments, and no mention is made of the cross-
correspondence scripts.
His final paragraph is an exhortation to psychical researchers
to apply to all cases of hallucination the psycho-analytic method.
He believes
"
that a careful examination of the cases of veridical
hallucinations already reported by the British and American
Societies would reveal the presence and determining activity
of sexual factors." Whether this is so or not, it is, firstly, quite
certain that such a pre-formed belief would greatly impede a
correct analysis. Secondly, it is difficult to see why a sexual
or any other factor should determine a hallucination which is
veridical, and it is this quality which alone interests the
psychical researcher as such. Lastly, if Mr. Troland had the
slightest idea of the difficulty of inducing any percipient to
give even the baldest written statement of his hallucination, he
might understand something of the obstacles which beset the
path of a would-be psycho-analyst.
There is much valuable light to be thrown on the problems
of psychical research from the psycho-analytic point of view,
but a superficial acquaintance with the literature of both subjects
is an inadequate preparation for an illuminator.
EEVIEWS.
The Purpose of Education. By ST. G. L. Fox PITT. (Cambridge
University Press, 1913. 83 pp. Price 2s. 6d. net.)
THE object of this little volume, as summed up at its close, is to
point out that the teaching which urges less reliance upon
" the
seen, the concrete, the physically tangible, and more upon the spiritual
side of our nature," is "in strict accord with the conclusions of
recent psychological research." In the Preface, one of its main
objects is said to be the indication of a path midway between those
extreme views which exaggerate respectively the importance of the
inner life and of the environment. And yet another object, less
4
II
Jvm, i'.M4. Reviews. 251
explicitly stated, is to denounce that short-sighted utilitarian outlook,
which in education "draws the circle premature, heedless of far
gain." Such a denunciation seems indeed to be invited by the
present time, when this bad bargain is so often struck as a means
to the end of "getting and spending." The author's protest is
nowise too strong, but would perhaps have been more effectively
made in language less elaborately technical. The word "complex,"
for instance, a term which, according to the definition on pages 4
and 5, covers almost all mental processes, casts an obscurity over
some passages where its use, despite his apologies for it, might with
advantage have been avoided.
There is no ambiguity, however, about the expression of his belief
that our age suffers from many ills, a remedy for which must be
41
found, and found solely, in sound educational methods"; but which
have by their evil influence on education made its reform at once
difficult and indispensable. Prominent among these contemporary
ills we find an assumption
" that the '
struggle for life
'
is a financial
struggle pure and simple," based on the delusion that "
money is an
universal power, meeting all human needs," and closely connected
with an excessive regard for reputation rather than character, resulting
in "a most deplorable waste of human energy in the vain attempt
of individuals, groups, classes and nations to maintain their position
in the eyes of the world." The effects upon education are obvious
in its commercial aims and methods, always strictly personal and
strenuously competitive, in the substitution of lower for higher
motives and ideals, and in the common neglect to provide for any
systematic training of instincts and character.
"One of the most noticeable consequences of the neglect of such
systematic training is to be seen in the mental habit of impatience
with outward conditions ;
that exaggerated longing for the immediate
emergence of tangible results from all efforts and actions, a longing
which often finds expression in a futile and vulgar utilitarianism."
There is, in short, a tendency to the "inversion of the proper relations
of the inward and outward, of means and end, that is responsible
for the pernicious custom, widely prevalent, of neglecting, not to
say ignoring, the importance of character training."
But "the difficulty of the educational problem, which presents
itself when we endeavour to inculcate the superiority of character
to reputation, lies in the fact that the early stages of child-development
depend so largely on the feeding and cultivation of the minor com-
plexes, in which narrow egocentric thoughts aud feelings must
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNK, 1914.
necessarily predominate. The problem then assumes this form : How-
are we to counteract these budding and multifarious egoisms in the
minor complexes without destroying all incentives to effort ?
"
The
solution is thus stated :
" We have seen that by enlarging the field
of vision and consciousness, complexes can be united, resolved, and
co-ordinated, so extending the sphere of experience and volition,
and that the real strength and greatness of individuality lies in the
direction of the impersonal. These are fundamental facts handed
down to us by the noblest traditions, and confirmed by experimental
psychological research.
"The genuine understanding of these fundamental facts would
lead to the remodelling and readjustment of our whole educational
system. Competition as an incentive to effort (and incidentally as.
the great fostering cause of egoism) would be abolished. Punishment
would be mitigated. Bribes would disappear. Children would be
discouraged from assimilating false ideals while their minds are young
and plastic. Noble ideals would be placed before them, and we would
contrive by suitable examples and illustrations to make these appear
really interesting and attractive."
All this applies mainly to the ethical element in education. With
reference to the much-needed "awakening to some higher faith in
the purpose and destiny of individual existence," the author asks i
" How is this possible without a serious effort being made to intro-
duce a really moral and religious atmosphere into popular education?"
He clearly uses the word "religious" in the widest and least dogmatic
sense ; yet, even allowing for this, the following statement, which
occurs in the chapter on Religion, Ideals, and Conversion, seems
somewhat too sweeping :
" It may be confidently asserted that
practically every individual, with scarcely any exception, has at some
time or another undergone distinct religious experiences. Experiences,
that is to say, which exalt the mind to a state of ecstasy ;
and
whether it be the ecstasy of awe, of hope, or of rapture, such states
of mind indicate for the individual his partial awakening to a per-
ception of the real meaning of the existence to which he has been*
born." Either the universality or the intensity of such experiences
must surely be overstated.
In the same chapter, too, occur some remarks about confession
and confessors, which might at a first glance be misinterpreted ;
they resolve themselves, however, into the proposition that good
advice is useful and rare; a conclusion with which most people
will agree. JANE BARLOW.
JUNE, I'.MI. Review*.
Adventuring* in the /'>//////>///. By H. ADDINGTON UKUCE. (Little,
Brown & Co., Boston, U.S.A., 1914. 313 pp. Price $1.35 net.)
IN his new volume, Adventurings in the J'whirnl, Mr. Bruce pays
our Society several handsome compliments, discounting their value,
it is true, in some degree, by calling its members "scientific ghostolo-
gists," a hybrid title which they would hardly care to adopt, and by
ascribing to them achievements which they can, perhaps, not even
credit, much less claim. For instance, he considers it due to their
labours that "
phenomena hitherto regarded as mysterious and "
super-
natural" such as apparitions, clairvoyance, crystal-gazing, etc. have
been definitely explained on a purely naturalistic basis." Mr. Bruce
is, however, a believer in the unlimited powers of Telepathy, by which
he apparently accounts for almost every kind of occult phenomenon,
and it may therefore be as the actual discoverers of Telepathy, though
not indeed of its omnipotence, that the Society meets with such high
approval. Naturally enough, in these circumstances, his study of an
important branch of its researches, the automatic writing of Mrs. Piper,
Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. "Forbes," and Mrs. "Holland," leads him to the
conclusion that " there is nothing whatever in the evidence presented
incompatible with the view that the cross-correspondences in question
resulted from direct thought-transference between the automatists
t
themselves." But his presentation of the case is
misleadingly in-
complete, omitting as it does the later and more elaborate series
of cross-correspondences, designed to minimise the probability,
if not preclude the possibility, of any such thought-transference
hypothesis.
The special purpose, however, of the author's " review of the results
of modern psychical research," is to demonstrate "the exceedingly
practical character of many of these discoveries, by which the world
has been a rich gainer." Amongst them the subconscious with the
discovery of which he again associates the S.P.R. is a particularly
valuable asset. "All successful men, whether a Milton or a Rocke-
feller, a Shakespeare or a Morgan, are men who have developed their
subconscious faculties by laborious application of their conscious powers
in the routine of daily life." The mere grouping together of such a
quartette of " successful men "
certainly speaks volumes for the vast
range and scope of this marvellous latent power. Apart from poetry
^ind finance, its availability for the cure of mentally caused diseases
is from a practical point of view extremely important; and the three
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1914.
concluding chapters, which relate some of the admirably ingenious
methods devised by medical men for thus turning it to account, are
the most interesting in the book.
JANE BARLOW.
NOTES ON CUKRENT PERIODICALS.
THE Bulletin de L'Institut Gentral Psychologique for November-Decem-
ber, 1913, contains a brief account by Dr. Marage of a report on
some experiments in water-divining, sent to the Commission appointed
by the Acadlmie des Sciences to investigate the problem of the divining
rod. The experiments were conducted in Tunisia by Monsieur
Landesque, an engineer by profession and an amateur " dowser."
The experiments may be divided into two parts :
(a) Some experiments in regard to a water-conduit, the subject
being a professional dowser. The water, according to Monsieur
Landesque's report, was turned on and off without the dowser's
normal knowledge, and the pendulum, which he used instead of
a rod, invariably responded by swinging when there was water in
the conduit, and by remaining motionless when there was no water.
Monsieur Marage points out the great importance in such experi-
ments of being absolutely certain that " the dowser is
guided neither
by sight nor by sound nor by suggestion," and the desirability of
conducting a large number of experiments.
(b) Some experiments in divining natural springs in the open
country. Monsieur Landesque was himself the subject in these
experiments, and met with considerable success.
In the Bulletin for January-April, 1914, there is a note by Dr.
Marage on the result of some experiments which he tried as to the
effect upon a dowser of an intermittent current of water, (a) in an
underground conduit, (b) in an open gutter on the surface of the
ground. Several dowsers, both professional and amateur, were tested
in this way.
" When all precautions were taken to ensure that the
subject was not guided by any external sign," the results were such
as chance might give ;
" but if there was the smallest suggestion,
acting on the sight or the hearing, the experiment always sue"
ceeded."
These results suggest the desirability of carrying out similar ex-
periments on a large scale, to determine, if possible, whether an
artificial current does or does not affect persons apparently possessed
1914. Not on Current Periodicals. 255
of a faculty for divining natural springs. A negative result would
be interesting, although one could not draw from it
any definite
conclusion as to the effect of natural currents ;
a positive result
would go far to prove the existence of a faculty for divining water,
because the experiments, being conducted under known conditions,
would not be open to the objections which can be raised against
experiments in divining natural springs, where the conditions cannot
be so precisely determined.
H. DK G. V.
Tierseele, Nos. 1-2, 1913, and 3, 1914. This new Zeitschrift is
edited by Herr Karl Krall, the owner and investigator of the
famous "
thinking
"
horses of Elberfeld, and is intended to be the
organ of the Society for Animal Psychology, or what its enemies are
already calling
"
Krallismus." It is at any rate a very readable
periodical, which gives a vivid picture of the convulsions which the
dispute about the capacities of properly educated animals have pro-
duced in the scientific world in Germany. It is also full of instruc-
tion for students of the psychology of bias and the logic of the
"incredible," while the difficulties about ascertaining the experi-
mental facts closely parallel those .which are encountered by investi-
gators of the supernormal.
The first (which is a double) Number opens with a translation
of Prof. Claparede's excellent article on the Elberfeld horses, trans-
lated from No. 47 of the Archives de Psychologic. It gives an
interesting account of four sittings with the horses, and a very able
discussion of the various explanations, in which the analogies
between the problems of animal intelligence and of mediumship are
duly emphasized.
Prof. Claparede is disposed to admit the possibility of equine
rationality, and to consider the alternative theories inadequate in
view of the facts. But he is well aware that at present more ex-
periments are needed rather than theories. Herr Krall describes
some (old) experiments to test the keenness of vision of "clever
Hans" from which he infers that it is 2J times as great as that of
normal man. There are also some amusing and damaging docu-
ments about the critics of the Elberfeld experiments, and reports by
various scientific eye-witnesses.
No 3 contains an official history of the Mannheim dog,
"
Rolf,"
by his mistress Frau Moekel, which is excellent reading, an account
of experiments to test the sense of smell in his horses by Herr
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JUNE, 1914.
Krall, further studies in the psychology (and ethics) of critics, and
records of experiments with Rolf by Dr. Gruber and Dr. Wilser,
-and with the horses by Dr. Freudenberg, as well as further reports.
It is remarkable that Kolf succeeded five times in describing cards
which he alone could see (" unwissentliche Versuche") with Dr.
Gruber: in some of these cases Frau Moekel was not in the room.
Both Numbers contain bibliographies.
F. C. S. S.
Revue de Psychothe~rapie, March, 1914. This number contains a
very incomplete account of a case of apparent musical automatism
in an adult. The subject is stated never to have studied music, but
to be capable of improvising short passages, unconsciously. This
occurs when he puts his hands on the keys of a piano, and he is
able either to originate a short composition or to elaborate a theme of
a few notes which are given him by some one present. The account
does not contain sufficient information to make the case of much
value, but it may be compared with the accounts of musical auto-
matism in children which are related on page 56 of the current
volume of the Journal, S.P.R.
V. J. W.
No. CCCXI. VOL. XVI. .Jn.Y, 1914.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
OONTHNT*.
I A'.K
New Members ;uul Associates, ... -257
Meeting of the Council, - -
'258
General Meeting, . - '258
A Case of Stigmatism ? -
-jS
An Inquiry into Spiritual Healing. A Summary, -
'J63
The Trumpet-Medium, Mrs. S. Harris. By Dr. K. H. E. de Jong, - 266
Notes on Current Periodicals,
-
'-'70
Combined Index to the Proceedings and Journal, '272
The Rooms of the Society at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., will
"be closed during August and September, re-opening on Thursday,
October 1st.
The next number of the Journal will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Barrow, J. R., Indian Educational Service, Dacca, Bengal.
ngton, Miss E. Beatrice, 60 Eaton Terrace, London, S.W.
Scaramanga-Ralli, Mrs., 2 Lygon Place, Grosvenor Gardens
London, S.W.
Thaw, A. Blair, North Hampton, New Hampshire, U.S.A.
Cru/oN OF KEDLESTON, The Rt. Hon. EARL, Hackwood, Basingstoke.
DALE, MRS. HYLTON, Hans Crescent Hotel, London, S.W.
HALL, Miss S. ELIZABETH, 33 Canfield Gardens, London, N.W.
HATTON, G. C., 3 Vernon Chambers, Southampton Row, London,
w.c.
LODGE, Miss E. C., Vice-Principal of Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.
MURRAY, Miss JESSIE, M.B., 14 Endsleigh Street, Tavistock Square,
London, W.C.
ESSERS, HENRY J. G., 265 Folkestone Road, Dover.
258 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1914..
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 129th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, June 29th, 1914, at 6 p.m.;
THE PRESIDENT, DR. F. C. S. SCHILLER, in the chair. There
were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, The Eight Hon.
G. W. Balfour, The Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Sir William Crookes,
The Hon. Everard Eeilding, Dr. L. P. Jacks, Sir Lawrence Jones,.
Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. W. M'Dougall, Dr. T. W. Mitchell,
Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Dr. V. J.
Woolley ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Research Officer, and Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct. Four new Members and seven new
Associates were elected. Their names and addresses are given
above.
The monthly accounts for May were presented and taken,
as read.
GENERAL MEETING.
THE 143rd General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Robert Barnes Hall of the Royal Society of Medicine,
1 Wimpole Street, London, W., on Monday, June 29th, 1914,
at 4.30 p.m., THE PRESIDENT, DR. F. C. S. SCHILLER, in the chair.
THE PRESIDENT delivered an address on "Philosophy, Science,
and Psychical Research," which will be published in the forth-
coming part of the Proceedings.
A CASE OF STIGMATISM?
IN the May Journal of this year we printed an account of
some stains observed on her feet by a correspondent referred
to as Mrs. Walker ;
it was suggested that these stains might
be due either to auto-suggestion, or to chromidrosis, or to a
combination of these two causes, and we invited further
opinions on the case.
In response to this invitation we received the following
letter from Sir Edwin Cooper Perry, M.D., Physician to the Skin
Department at Guy's Hospital, who has been for some years
a member of this Society:
JULY, 1014. A Case of St /.'///"
'/ 6*771 / 251>
Guy's Hospital, May 19, 1914.
There is, I think, a much simpler explanation than auto-
suggestion for the "
green marks
"
on Mrs. Walker's toes.
In November, 1899, I brought before the Dermatological Society
of London a patient who presented a "bluish-green discolouration
of the skin between the toes," and, so far as I am aware, this was
the first reported case in England. The credit, however, of dis-
covering the cause of the condition rests with Dr. Arthur J. Hall,
of Sheffield, who contributed a valuable paper on the subject to the
British Journal of Dermatology in November, 1902.
Briefly, the green, or blue-green, or peacock-blue, colour is due to
the staining of the epidermis by the aniline dye of the black
stockings, which, as stated on p. 229 of the Journal of the Society
for Psychical Research for May, Mrs. Walker was wearing. The
change from black to green, or blue, is
brought about by acid
sweat, and sweat thus altered in reaction may be found between
the toes, and in other situations where bacteria abound. The
epidermis is dyed, and hence the colour cannot be removed by
rubbing, or by the application of soap and water.
[Signed] E. COOPER PERRY.
In Mrs. Walker's original report of her case the following
passage occurs :
l
. . . That morning [December 11, 1913] on getting out of my
bath, I noticed something odd about the small toe of my left foot,
and found that there was a vivid green stain on the inside of
every toe, which no amount of rubbing would remove. Similar
stains . . . also appeared on the right foot. . . . Before December 11
I had been wearing brown stockings, new but already washed ;
while some new black ones of the same set, put on afterwards
by mistake without previous washing, dyed the soles of my feet
slightly black without a tinge of green. Moreover that dye was
immediately removed by washing, whereas up to the date of writ-
ing (January 13, 1914) no amount of soap and water has made the
slightest impression on the green stains . . .
It will be seen that if Mrs. Walker's recollections on January
13, 1914, were correct, at the time when the green stains first
appeared she was wearing brown stockings, and that, when she
afterwards put on black stockings, she observed that these
I
stockings dyed her feet
"
slightly black without a tinge of green
"
1
See Journal, S.P.R. 1914, pp. 228 et seq.
260 Journal of Society for Psycliical Research. JULY, 1914
and that the dye
"
was immediately removed by washing." We
thereupon wrote to Sir Cooper Perry to ask whether we were
right in understanding him to imply that, although the normal black
colour from the dye of stockings could be removed by washing,
the change brought about by acid sweat produces a colour which
cannot be so removed, and also whether in his opinion the marks
observed on Mrs. Walker's toes could be made by the dye from
brown stockings as well as black. He answered the first
question in the affirmative, and said that he was "
not chemist
enough to know whether there is any brown aniline dye which,
being acted upon by sweat secretion, stains the skin blue. I
have never seen such a case, and so far as I know all reported
cases have been in wearers of black socks or stockings." Sir
Cooper Perry also sent a water-colour sketch illustrating a
case of
"
aniline dermatitis
"
which came under his observation
in 1906, and is thus described:
Edward H., aet. 15, attended in the Skin Out-Patient Department
of Guy's Hospital under Sir Cooper Perry, in July, 1906, for Derma-
titis and Discoloration of the Feet, which had been present for seven
days. He was wearing black socks. The green discoloration was not
affected by the application of water, alcohol, aether, or chloroform.
The Dermatitis rapidly subsided under treatment by Calamine Lotion.
The sketch shows that the discoloured patches are on the sole
of the foot, also on the under surface of each toe and between
the toes ;
the colour is bluish green.
Dr. Hall, in the article to which Sir Cooper Perry refers
(see British Journal of Dermatology, 1902, pp. 418 d seq.)
describes several cases of
"
blue toes
"
which have come under
his observation. In one of these cases, that of a married woman
of thirty, who came to Dr. Hall to be treated for rheumatism,
the stains are described as being between the toes, hardly visible
on the upper surface, but conspicuous when the toes were pulled
apart, a condition very similar to that which Mrs. Walker
observed in her own case. Dr. Hall concludes :
I have no doubt whatever that the cases of blue toes I have seen
are due to the same cause viz. a blue aniline dye much used in
the manufacture of cheap (certainly black, possibly also other coloured)
stockings. It is dissolved by acid sweat. It dyes the epidermis to
some depth in those parts which are moist and warm and the chief
sweat-producers. It has nothing whatever to do with Chromidrosis
or Bacteriological Decomposition or Hysteria.
1914 A Case of S7 /',/,// fism? 261
Dr. Hall also states that in his experience discolouration of
this kind is usually found in the case of people who have moist
feet, who do not wash their feet often, and who wear cheap
black stockings.
Sir Cooper Perry states that in this matter his
"
experi-
ence is in accordance with Dr. Hall's." Dr. V. J. Woolley,
who kindly made some enquiries about dyes on our behalf, writes
as follows :
July 12, 1914.
Cheap black stockings are usually dyed with Aniline Black, which
is easily changed by a reducing agent into Aniline Green. I think
that this must be the cause of the condition described by Sir Cooper
Perry. Brown stockings are almost certainly dyed with a dye called
a Widal dye, and a reducing agent would change the colour of this,
but I do not know to what. But the change would probably be much
more difficult than in the case of the black ones.
[Signed] V. J. WOOLLEY.
On receipt of Sir Cooper Perry's letter of May 19, 1914,
we wrote again to Mrs. Walker informing her of the suggested
explanation of the case, and asking whether she could make any
further and more precise statement as to the kind of stockings
she was wearing before December 11, 1913, the day upon
which the stains were first observed. Mrs. Walker replied as
follows :
May 24, 1914.
In reply to your letter of the 20th, received to-day : To the best
of my recollection I did not wear any of the new black stockings
before Dec. llth, 1913. They were a new set brought from England,
and so far as I remember I did not change to woollen stockings till
early in December. As I have said, the stain from the black ones
was on the soles of the feet, and washed out easily. While the
stains lasted I wore all sorts of different stockings, some new, some
old (the new ones were always washed first, with the one exception
mentioned), some black, some brown. But the colour of the stains
never varied, although the area did, until they began gradually to
fade as my husband got better. I always have to be very careful
about my footwear, and put on clean stockings nearly every day (in
summer often twice a day), because, like so many rheumatic people,
I find my feet inflame if the least little perspiration dries on them.
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1914.
This inflammation varies from light pink to red, and gets intolerably
irritating in hot weather if I miss my daily bath. I have been subject
to this discomfort for years : hence my especial care of my feet. It
comes between the toes and on the instep only.
I don't think my feet perspired at all certainly not appreciably
while the stains lasted, except on the one occasion mentioned. [See
Jour. S.P.B., 1914, p. 232.] As I say, I am always painfully aware
when they do. I am now using methyl salicyl for the irritation,
our hot weather having set in ;
but I don't think I began to apply
this until the stains had almost or quite disappeared. I had no
irritation worth mentioning until about the middle of April. This
drug was recommended to me for my arthritic hands, and I find it
keeps the redness and irritation of the feet fairly under control.
I began to wear white stockings and black canvas shoes early in
April. When for any reason I have to put on black ones I now
look carefully to see if any colour comes. So far there has not been
.a sign, although the last time I had to wear black stockings and
kid shoes, for a public function, it was oppressively hot and every
one was perspiring visibly. . . .
[Signed] E. M. WALKER.
It will be seen from this statement that, as might have been
expected, Mrs. Walker could not clearly remember in May
precisely on what date in the previous December she had first
worn the new black stockings. The clearest evidence we have
on this point is Mrs. Walker's original statement of January 13,
1914, which clearly implies that the black stockings were worn
only after the stains had been observed on December 11, 1913.
Assuming this to be so, Mrs. Walker's case differs in several
important respects from those observed by Sir Cooper Perry
and Dr. Hall. Not only are the black stockings wanting, but
it will be seen from Mrs. Walker's letter, published above, that
on account of her rheumatic tendency she is unusually punc-
tilious in the care of her feet. It should also be noted that a
purely physical cause does not seem to account for the recru-
descence of the symptoms just at the time of Mrs. Walker's
.renewed anxiety about her husband's health (see Jour. S.P.R.,
1914, p. 232).
On the other hand, it must be admitted that the symptoms
observed by Mrs. Walker are very similar to those which have
been ascribed to aniline dye, and the fact that she is rheumatic
JULY 1914. A Case of Stiymatism? 263
perhaps increases the likelihood of this explanation, since it is
the acidity of the sweat which acts upon the dye of the stock-
ings, and two of the cases reported by Dr. Hall were rheumatic
subjects.
Perhaps the strongest evidence against the supposition
that the stains were due to dye from the stockings, is
the fact that Mrs. Walker has never observed any similar
stains either before or since. If we suppose that she was
.mistaken in thinking that she had not worn the new black
stockings before the stains were observed, we might possibly
explain the production of an effect unique in Mrs. Walker's
experience by the fact that
"
by mistake," i.e., contrary to her
usual habit, she put on these new stockings
"
without previous
washing" (see above, p. 259). Could it be that, in the process
of washing, some of the less
"
fast
"
elements of the dye are
.removed, and therefore unwashed stockings are more likely to
>be affected by the action of the sweat ?
If any of our members can throw light on the question as
to whether it is likely that the dye from brown stockings
might produce the symptoms observed in Mrs. Walker's case,
we should be glad of further information on this point. Mean-
while, as the evidence stands now, and unless Mrs. Walker
should have some further experience to report, we cannot draw
any definite conclusion. On a priori grounds, a simple physical
explanation must be given precedence over one which assumes
yet the existence of an unknown psychical factor, but it is not
certain that a simple physical explanation will meet the facts.
AN INQUIEY INTO SPIRITUAL HEALING.1
A SUMMARY.
A CONFERENCE of representatives of the clerical and medical
professions was held at the Chapter House, St. Paul's, in
October, 1910, to discuss the alleged results and the rapid
development of
"
spiritual
"
and "
faith
"
healing movements,
and a Committee was appointed to consider and report upon
the best method of closer co-operation between the two pro-
1
Spiritual Healing. Report of a Clerical and Medical Committee of Inquiry
into Spiritual, Faith and Mental Healing. Macmillan & Co., London. 1914.
Pp. 06. Price, Is. net.
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1914,
fessions. At a second conference, held in October, 1911, the
provisional conclusions of this Committee were unanimously
adopted, and an enlarged, standing Committee was appointed :
(a) To continue investigations into the meaning and
scope of
"
Spiritual,"
"
Faith," and "
Mental
"
healing ;
(b) To consider how the dangers connected with such
treatment by persons not medically qualified might best
be guarded against ;
and
(c) To promote all legitimate co-operation between the.
two professions.
The members of this Standing Committee are :
The Dean of Westminster (Chairman), Sir Dyce Duckworth
(Vice-Chairman), Sir Clifford Allbutt, the Kev. W. G. Cameron,
Canon C. V. Childe (Hon. Secretary), the Dean of Durham^
the Dean of St. Paul's, the Kev. G. E. Newsom, Prebendary
J. S. Northcote, the Bishop of Stepney, the Eev. A. W. Kobinson,
the Eev. W. M. Sinclair, Dr. S. Bousfield (Hon. Sec. and
Treasurer), Dr. C. Buttar, Mr. W. M'Adam Eccles, Dr. F.
de Havilland Hall, Dr. T. B. Hyslop, Dr. H. G. Gordon
Mackenzie, Dr. J. A. Ormerod, Sir E. Douglas Powell, and
Dr. Howard Tooth.
The witnesses, all of whom had personally practised, or
made a study of, the treatment of physical disorders by
spiritual or mental influences, include Dr. J. Milne Bramwell,
Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, Dr. M. B. Wright, and the Eev. Samuel
McComb, one of the founders of the Emmanuel movement in
America.
Evidence was taken in reply to formulated questions, and
a considerable number of cases treated by spiritual healing
were also brought to the notice of the Committee. The
alleged diseases thus treated include cancer, cirrhosis of liver,
enlargement of thyroid gland, arthritis, hip disease, Eaynaud's
disease, angina pectoris, secondary haemorrhage,
"
swelling of
legs," pneumonia, toxaemia, abscess of liver, erysipelas, dysentery,
conjunctivitis, dipsomania and other vicious habits, epilepsy,
blindness, deafness,
"
muscular paralysis," neuritis, sclerosis,
tetanus,
"
brain fever,"
"
paralysis of bowel," asthma, neuras-
thenia and other nervous conditions.
In the majority of these cases no medical evidence was
obtainable, the only confirmation as to the nature of the
,1914. An Inquiry into ,S//Y////"/ //////'///. 265
disease and the result of the treatment being given by the
healers themselves or their friends ;
and in some cases state-
ments were made by patients that they had been cured or
benefited. In no instance of a so-called
"
incurable
"
disease
was medical evidence fortlu nmin.u to confirm any cure by
spiritual or mental healing.
The cases in which it was possible to obtain medical evidence,
both before and after treatment, are six in number. In the
first case, viz., secondary haemorrhage after excision of tonsils,
the haemorrhage ceased after the patient received Holy Unction,
"
but the doctor in attendance ascribed it to a natural
'
cessation
of the bleeding from the faintness allowing the blood to co-
agulate and form a clot.'
"
In the second case, i.e., malignant tumour of the thyroid gland,
"
spiritual healing was not the only treatment used, as radium
was applied twice for periods of five days ;
and there was
marked reduction in the size of the superficial growth each
time. But the patient died of the disease in a few weeks,
notwithstanding the temporary diminution in the external signs."
The third case was one of partial paralysis of the muscles
of the arm of five years' standing. The patient received treat-
ment for an hour a day for ten days,
"
and felt considerably
better as regards his
'
nerve tone/ and he thought there was
some increase of power in the hand. When examined some
three months after this treatment, the muscles of the arm
were still wasted and partially paralysed."
In the fourth case, which was one of severe and prolonged
toxaemia, although
"
the patient dated her improvement from
the time of the Anointing, the doctor in attendance believed
that there was '
no deviation from the normal and recognised
course in the recovery/
"
In the fifth case, which was one of enlargement of the
thyroid gland, the patient is stated to have been well a few
days after treatment, but
"
the doctor in attendance considered
that
'
the causes of the swelling were of a temporary character/
and that the thyroid gland quieted down and the swelling
disappeared, as is frequently the case."
The sixth was a purely hysterical case of self-inflicted sores.
"
The mental effect of treatment by the Spiritual healer led to
a cessation of the self-inflicted wounds, and to the disappear-
266 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1914.
ance of the other hysterical symptoms. The illness had been
reported to the Committee as
'
a very rare and incurable
disease with partial insanity.'
"
The Committee affirm that the operation of the Divine
power can be limited only by the Divine will, but they believe
that it is exercised in conformity with, and through the
operation of natural laws. They are of opinion that the
;physical results of what is called
"
faith
"
or
"
spiritual
"
healing are not different from those of mental healing or healing
by
"
suggestion
"
;
and they recognise that suggestion is more
effectively exercised by some persons than by others, and this
fact may explain the special
"
gifts
"
claimed by various healers.
They are forced to the conclusion that
"
faith
"
or
"
spiritual
"
healing, like all treatment by suggestion, can be permanently
effective only in cases of functional disorders, and they emphasise
this point in order to warn those who resort to
"
Healers
"
in
the hope of receiving a permanent cure that they may thereby
be postponing until too late the medical treatment which might
serve to arrest organic disease.
WJrile recognising the value of spiritual ministrations as a potent
means of suggestion, they strongly deprecate the independent
treatment of disease by irresponsible and unqualified persons.
The Committee hope to continue to collect evidence, and
will be glad to have further cases brought to their notice.
With each case they ask for a diagnosis by a medical practitioner,
before treatment, with a short history of the signs and symptoms ;
an account of the treatment carried out, with dates and other
details ;
and a medical examination, after treatment, by the
same doctor if possible, with a detailed account of the changes
which have taken place.
The Eeport contains a summary of the evidence of various
witnesses, and a Note on Suggestion by Sir E. Douglas Powell.
THE TRUMPET-MEDIUM, MES. S. HAEEIS.
By DR. K H. E. DE JONG.
[Dr. de Jong has recently become an associate of the S.P.R.,
and takes a keen interest in its work. ED.]
THE "
trumpet-medium," Mrs. S. Harris, at the invitation of a
little society in the Hague, called
"
Vereeniging voor Psychisch
.7i i. v, 1914. Th< Trumpet-Medium, Mrs. S. Harris. 267
Ondereozk" (Society for Psychical Research), held several seances
in Holland between March 31 and April 16, 1914. These
seances soon aroused the suspicion of some participants, and at
last the
"
medium
"
was exposed at a stance at Amsterdam, on
April 16. A leader of the spiritists in Holland, Mr. H. N. de
Fremery, gave a description of this exposure in Het Vaderland
('Hie Fatherland, a newspaper of the Hague), of April 20,
and in Hct Lcven (The Life, an illustrated periodical), of
April 21. Nevertheless, the "stalwart spiritualists" main-
tained that Mrs. S. Harris was a genuine medium, and almost
the whole number of Hct Toekomstig Levm (TJie Future Life, a
spiritistic periodical), of May 1, was consecrated to prove this.
The writer of the present article, having attended the
seance of April 2, tries in the following to prove as clearly
and shortly as possible, by means of personal observations and
tin appendix, that there is no reason at all to ascribe to
Mrs. S. Harris any supernormal faculty.
(1) Dark seances, without good control and for money's
sake, should be a priori considered as fraudulent.
(2) There is almost complete darkness at these sittings,
and no good control at all, and, as a rule, the participant
must pay 5 fl.
(8s. 3d.), there being almost twenty persons at
a seance.
(3) The loud singing (by preference of merry songs), and
the circumstance that the sitters must have almost always
their hands on their knees, favour trickery.
(4) The voice of Harmony (the so-called control-spirit)
sounds like the voice of a ventriloquist. I did not hear two
voices simultaneously (cf. Appendix 1).
(5) In the sitting I attended, very little Dutch was spoken.
Words like
"
Vader
"
(father) prove nothing (cf. Appendix 2).
(6) That Stead, sen., manifested himself at nearly all these
seances is very suspicious ;
as also is the circumstance that
Mr. Stead, jun., although a spiritualist, does not care for Mrs.
S. Harris.
(7) The "spirits" "fished" very much, and even when a
statement made by them was erroneous, they cried aloud,
"That's correct!"
(8) The "
medium
"
said things, of which she had ordinary
knowledge, as if they were revelations. Thus she said of me,
268 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1914,
"
This gentleman takes a great interest in palmistry." This
was correct,
1
but some days before I had been invited one
evening by a spiritualist, who had also invited Mrs. S. Harris,
and I was actually asked to read her own hands ! I therefore
said aloud at the sitting,
"
The medium knew that
"
(cf.
Appendix 3).
(9) The "
spirits
"
pretended that I broke the
"
harmony
"
of the sitting, but though I said repeatedly that I was willing
to leave the seance, this was not allowed.
(10) Mrs. S. Harris was called by some papers, e.g. Het
Leven (The Life), of April 21, p. 490, a
"
swindler," but she
did not answer the accusation.
APPENDIX.
1. Mr. H. N. de Fremery in his article in Het Vader-
land (The Fatherland} of April 20 writes, inter alia, the following :
Mrs. Harris brought with her to her seances three tin speaking-
trumpets, each divided into three parts which screwed into each
other. At the bottom they were about 4 inches wide and at the
mouth-piece about J an inch in width and, I should think, about
3 ft. 3 in. long. Through those trumpets there resounded in the
pitch-dark at one time a man's deep voice and at another time a
few words whispered in English or in German and sometimes a
few words in Dutch. Those were called the "direct spirit voices,"
and it was said that the inhabitants of the astral sphere, thanks to
Mrs. Harris's mediumistic power, were enabled to reveal themselves
to mortals on earth.
Well, on the 9th of April last, at a meeting which I attended in
the Odeon Hall in Amsterdam, I was asked to hold Mrs. Harris's
left hand. I did so and it remained in my right hand quietly the
whole evening. When I heard the trumpet voices, I made up my
mind to find out whether, perchance, there was any connection
between them and the medium. In order that what follows may
be clearly understood, it should be said that, in addition to those
voices, there was a falsetto voice to be heard as well, which, it was
said, was produced by Mrs. Harris's deceased daughter
"
Harmony."
The falsetto voice and the trumpet voice kept up a lively and by
no means unamusing dialogue. Nevertheless, I never heard them
simultaneously. Availing myself of the pitch darkness, I placed
my right ear close to Mrs. Harris's shoulder and by so doing could
l
l must add that I do not consider palmistry as a science.
JULY, 1914. The Trumpet-Medium, Mr. S. ll< 269
distinctly follow her breathing. Well, this kept regular time with
the voices heard. When the trumpet voice sounded I recognised
Mrs. Harris's voice, which I cannot describe better than by callini/
it an "
internal grunt," caused by jerks through the central aperture
of compressed lips. These sounds invariably accompanied the
trumpet voice. If there were prolonged sounds, then a deep breath
was drawn, whereupon the falsetto voice followed. My discoveries
convinced me that those "direct spirit voices" had nothing what-
ever to do with the inhabitants of the astral sphere, but were pro-
duced by Mrs. Harris herself.
My convictions were proved up to the hilt at the meeting in the
pitch dark which I attended yesterday evening, April 16. Mr. G.
J. De Bruin was then invited to hold Mrs. Harris's left hand.
Shortly before this I had told him my impressions. He did just
what I had done, and agreed with me entirely.
But there is still more. One of the audience, Mr. I. Richter,
hidden by the darkness, crept on hands and knees to the spot
where he had seen Mrs. Harris put the three trumpets down. Two
of them were still
standing on the floor and he took them away to
his place, the third trumpet was evidently being used, for the
trumpet voice was repeatedly heard while Mr. Richter carried out
this piece of cunning. But not one of the so-called manifesting
spirits had observed this. Surely, if they had been real spirits who
were using the trumpets, they must have noticed that they had
been deprived of the instruments for making their manifestations,
and certainly would not have neglected to complain of it, as there
was still the third trumpet at their disposal. But Mr. Richter
himself disclosed what he had done. Then I heard the third
trumpet drop on the floor.
The disclosure, of course, occasioned great consternation, but the
lights were not turned on until Mrs. Harris gave her permission.
She was wise enough not to say a word, but she seemed to be very
much disconcerted.
The lady who had held Mrs. Harris's right hand informed me, in
reply to my inquiry, that that hand had again and again been removed
from her left hand, arid for a long time.
Mr. Bruin said that frequently he had not been able to discover
where the left, foot of the medium was, on feeling for it with his
right foot, but that Mrs. Harris's left hand had been firmly held in
his right hand the whole evening.
It is not necessary to set forth what facilities absolute darkness
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1914.
afford to any one who wishes to "make music," and to that end
has at his disposal from time to time the use of a right hand, and,
moreover, a mouth, two feet, and three trumpets of fully three feet
in length.
Mr. Marcellus Emants, the well-known Dutch author, writes
in Het Toekomstig Leven (The Future Life), of June 15, 1914,
p. 220, about a seance which he attended:
I have not even once perceived that two voices spoke simul-
taneously. They sounded sometimes quickly after each other, but never
absolutely simultaneously.
2. Mr. Marcellus Emants, too, cannot remember to have
"perceived anything of Dutch-speaking spirits," and he adds
the following, which is rather suspicious :
"It is true that a German announced himself with a few German
words, who rarely or never seems to fail at the seances of Mrs. S.
Harris; this time he was called Professor Siebold of Munich. For
whom he came I do not know."
3. Mr. Marcellus Emants writes in the article mentioned
above, page 219:
"The first to whom a spirit (whose *?) spoke, was I. The spirit,
who called me professor
1
said that in my life something had happened
with Paladino. This may seem astonishing, but it becomes childish
when one knows that before the seance began when the door to
the other room was open I had spoken aloud with a lady about a
seance with Eusapia Paladino. And this childishness is not removed
by the circumstance that the spirit, when I simply asked "Where?"
dropped the trumpet, while the control (spirit) indignantly declared
that I was not allowed to ask questions, because this betrayed distrust."
NOTES ON CUKKENT PERIODICALS.
THE Archives de Psychologie, No. 5-1 (May, 1914), contains a study
of the value of testimony by H. Lelesz. A picture was shown for
one minute and the witnesses had thereupon to answer a long
questionnaire. The result, viz., that of the four mental types re-
cognized, the intelligent, the descriptive, the interpreters, and the
superficial, the order of merit is as stated, will not excite surprise.
1
This was not correct. K. H. E. de J.
JULY, i-.tu Notes on Current Periodical- 271
Dr. Ch. Odier narrates a case of the hysterical contraction of a
French girl's left leg, and interprets it on (essentially) Freudian lines.
The girl had been engaged to a friend of her brother's, a young officer,
and been much distressed when his behaviour led to the breaking off
of the engagement. Two years later her brother broke his leg in
a motor accident, and while she was nursing him she unexpectedly
met again her former fianct. Two years later still, the hysterical
contraction appeared and lasted for 9 months. The explanation
given is that these events set up an unconscious "complex," the
argument of which was "
my former Jiuncc came back to my brother
when he had broken his leg, this (the left) leg was motionless;
therefore, if my leg too grows motionless, my fianct will come back
to me."
Dr. E. Partos has an instructive note on the compilation of the
evidence that seemed to bear out Prof. Abderhalden's theory of
the "
sero-diagnostic
"
of diseases. It appears to have closely re-
sembled the famous case of the N-rays, and illustrates the power of
suggestion in scientific experimentation.
Lastly, Prof. Claparede reviews a number of German works on
the "thinking animals," in which he does not fail to bring out the
curious facts that hardly any of the opponents of "Krallismus" have
been to see the animals whereas their supporters nearly all have,
and that von Maday naively confesses that what instigated his protest
was the way in which KralPs book, coming out shortly after, dis-
tracted public attention from his own. It appears also that good results
have been obtained with the horses by the experimenters alone,
and in the absence of Herr Krall and his groom, and that a new
acquisition, the mare Jon a, has learnt to do 1-figure additions and
subtractions after five weeks' instruction. Prof. Claparede's sensible
conclusion is that the questions of fact cannot be solved by dialectics,
but only by going to Elberfeld and Mannheim. However, there
ought to be a number of people trying to educate their dogs on
German lines, and to verify the Mannheim results.
F. C. S. S.
The Neue Rundschau for June, 1914, has an interesting 39 pp.
article by Maeterlinck on the Elberfeld horses. He very candidly
confesses his initial bias, and states that before going to see them
he had been wholly convinced by the reports of their performances,
and also that subliminal telepathic transfer from the human to the
equine mind seemed to him the only acceptable hypothesis. He then
272 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. JULY, 1914.
gives a lucid and amusing account of his own experiences, including
Mukamed's refusal to extract an impossible root of a number which
in his mathematical ignorance Maeterlinck had written on the board
at random. To test the telepathic hypothesis he tried a number
of experiments, of which the answers were not known to him or
any one present, and found that the horses answered as correctly
as when the answers were known. Pfungst's theory of the reaction
of the animals to unconscious signals having been disproved by the
later developments, M. Maeterlinck betakes himself to the suggestion
that some animals, e.g. horses, dogs, and cats (but not elephants and
monkeys), are natural "psychics," and so can tap subliminally what
Professor James called a great "cosmic reservoir," in which all know-
ledge i.s conserved. He consequently compares the calculating horses
with the calculating boys, who also (usually) answer intuitively and
instantaneously and without knowing how they perform their feats.
(It would seem to follow that Balaam's Ass may have been an animal
4
psychic
'
of this sort, and that her scientific rehabilitation is approach-
ing.) It will be interesting, however, to see whether experimental
confirmation of this mystical hypothesis can be obtained, and also
whether any of the many philosophers who profess to hold it on
theoretic grounds will take any steps to verify it practically.
F. C. S. S.
COMBINED INDEX TO THE PROCEEDINGS AND
JOURNAL.
Part II. of the Index, which is now being printed, will be
published early in the autumn. Covering the Proceedings,
Vols. XVI. to XXVI., and the Journal, Vols. X. to XV.
inclusive, it will complete the Combined Index to all the
Volumes of the Proceedings and Journal which have been issued
so far since the foundation of the Society in 1882. Full
particulars of its publication will be given in the next number
of the Journal.
Nos. CCCXII-XIIL VOL. XVI. OCTOBEE AND NOVEMBER, 1914.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTKNT8.
PAGE
The Haunting of House. By F. J. M. Stratton, - - 274
Cases, 297
Combined Index to the Proceedings and Journal, - -
304
Erratum, 304
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On FRIDA Y, NOVEMBER 2O//z, 1914, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
" Some Experiments in
Thought-
Transference
v
WILL BE READ BY
Miss H. DE G. VERRALL.
N.B. No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
274 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
THE HAUNTING OF -
HOUSE.
BY F. J. M. STKATTON.
[Mr. Stratton, of Cains College, Cambridge, to whom we are
indebted for the following report, has been for some years an Associate
of this Society. He is also an active member of the Cambridge
University S.P.R., at a meeting of which this report was read.
At the request of the various people concerned in the case,
pseudonyms have been used here, and the name of the house
alleged to be haunted is not given. But all the original docu-
ments, together with names and addresses, are in our possession.
The case is typical of a certain class of
"
haunted
"
houses, those
in which the manifestations consist mainly of unaccountable noises.
Its chief interest lies in the fact that the report includes first-hand
narratives from several witnesses, ivhich it is useful to compare.
Some of the witnesses do not appear to have known at the time of
their earlier experiences that there was anything unusual about the
house, and it is noteworthy that these, so to speak, unbiassed experi-
ences are of a less remarkable character than those reported by
persons to whom the supposed
"
haunting
"
of the house was well-
known, showing that, as might be expected, allowance must be made
for the force of suggestion.
It is unfortunate that the house has now been turned into a
village club and partly pulled down, so that no further investigation
is possible, and, as Mr. Stratton himself says at the end of his
report, the case
"
must for the present rest as one more piece of
evidence awaiting explanation, and icaiting also to take its share in
the building up of a general theory of haunting"
Reports of somewhat similar cases and comments on them will be
found in Jour. S.P.R., Vol. V., pp. 331-352, The Haunted House
at Willington, and Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X, pp. 34,0 /., Eeport on
the Census of Hallucinations : Noises in
"
Haunted
"
Houses.
ED.]
THE house concerned in the following narrative is a country
house about a hundred years old in a Midland village.
Nothing is known of any previous history of haunting, nor is
anything known of any past happenings in the house which
would, according to ordinary superstitions, suggest cause for
. 1914. The Haunting of
- - Houne. _ < .">
the unpleasant experiences which befell the late tenants. And
yet during the past twelve years, Mr. and Mrs. Long
(pseudonym) bought the house and lived in it from April,
1901, to June, 1913, there have been few lengthy intervals
of respite from a steady flow of curious and unexplained
happenings. The written statement from Mrs. Long upon
which the following account is based was obtained for me in
July, 1913, by a mutual friend, Mr. C. Sayle, of the University
Library, Cambridge. Mrs. Long also obtained six accounts
from her husband, various occupants of the house and visitors.
These accounts are given below, and they confirm in detail
the second-hand statements of their experiences previously sent
to me by Mrs. Long herself. Mrs. Long's own account was
based on a diary which towards the end of the time was
written up every day with details of her own experiences and
that of the servants.
The second part of Mrs. Long's account gives a very good
idea of the frequency and of the general nature of the
phenomena, at any rate for the last few months in the house.
It also shows that the more unusual of the experiences fell
to the lot of the servants of the house. With regard to that
two comments should be made. The first experiences, so far
as is known, came to Mrs. Long. Later on her husband and
her children shared in them. But it was not until they had
been forced to the conclusion that there was something super-
natural about the place that they took the servants into their
confidence. They had, not unnaturally, been unable to keep
servants for any length of time, but in the end Mrs. Long
found it preferable to explain the state of affairs to servants
after they had been with her for a short time, if she
wanted to keep them. During the last six months, when
the phenomena were most insistent, the same four servants
all of a trustworthy nature and with good references stayed
with Mr. and Mrs. Long through what was certainly a very
trying experience for them all.
The house has now been sold and taken over as a village
club-house; it has already been partly pulled down. Nothing
has apparently leaked out into the village about the phenomena
in the house, and this, if a fact, is not without its bearing
on the question of the steadiness and trustworthiness of the
276 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. NOV.
servants.1 The only known incidents affecting non-residents
of the house are given below. I have been recently introduced
GARDEN. LANDING, SERVANTS' ROOMS AND BACKSTAIRS.
Door.
DAY-NURSERY.
Door.
SPARE ROOM.
DRIVE.
NIGHT-
NUBSKEY.
*
BATHROOM. 3'
2,
Door.
MRS. LONG'S
BEDROOM.
ARCHWAY.
STAIRS TO
ROOF,
BOXROOM,
ETC.
STAIRS.
Window.
PLAN OF PART OF HOUSE.
(Drawn from a rough sketch sent by Mrs. Long. )
J
In response to a letter sent to the village doctor at the suggestion of the
Secretary of the S.P.R. the following reply was received:
March 10, 1914.
"I have not heard of anything having happened at [ House] of an
unusual nature since Mrs. [Long] left. I regret that I am unable to tell you
anything except what I heard from Mrs. [Long], but I believe that very few
people were aware that unusual noises were heard in the house ;
so far as I
know, it was not known in the village generally."
i '.i i -i. The Haunting of
- House. 277
to Mr. and Mrs. Long, and I add to their accounts a
short notice which is largely based on answers to my
questions.
The following is Mrs. Long's account. In the first part
has been included several stories told me in detail by Mr. and
Mrs. Long three days ago.
1
Also, parts of her story repeated
in other accounts have been omitted here.
MRS. LONG'S ACCOUNT.
(1) My husband and I and children lived in the beautiful old
village of .
Finding our house too small for us, in 1900 we
bought a larger house which was quite near to where we first lived.
Soon after buying it my husband was ill, and in the year 1901 he
was ordered abroad for six months. I therefore went to our new
home in April, 1901, by myself with the children and servants. The
house, a long two-storied one, was about 90 years old with a
delightful old garden. Every one who had lived there before we
went seemed attached to the place and there was no story of any
description in connection with it.
Soon after I went to the house, I was writing a letter one even-
ing in the day-nursery about nine o'clock. Both doors were open.
Suddenly, in the piece of landing by the archway, I heard a loud
bang, as if some one had dropped a dumb-bell on to the ground. I was
terrified, and rushed through the door to the top of the stairs and
called the servants, who were having supper. They all came up
immediately and hunted everywhere, but could find nothing to
account for it. A few days later I was wakened in the middle of
the night by several rappings against the outside wall of my room,
near the ceiling. I was very frightened, as I felt that unless some
one was standing below and had an enormously long stick reach-
ing nearly to the roof, it could not have been done. The same
thing happened several nights and I had little sleep.
2
We also
heard the dropping noise very often.
A few weeks later a friend came to stay with me, but I did not
tell her of our experiences. One morning I went into her room
before she was up, and she told me she had never been so
1
My visit to Mr. and Mrs. Long was on September 30, 1913. This account
-was written out on October 3, 1913. F. J. M. S.
2
The account of these rappings reached Mr. Long on his way back home
from New Zealand, and were the first he heard of the business. F. J. M. S.
278 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
frightened in her life, that at 12 midnight the night before she
had just put out her light when there was the most terrific bang
by the side of her bed. She was petrified for a minute, and
then lighted her candle, expecting to find that some picture or
something had fallen. She looked everywhere, but everything was
in its usual place. I may say that, as a rule, she did not know
what nervousness meant.
Having had no ghostly experiences hitherto, it was a long time
before we allowed ourselves to think there must be something
uncanny about the house. However, as time went on, we were
obliged to recognize the fact. About every two or three nights
we awoke without knowing why, and then we would hear some one
walk down the landing and hear the swish of her skirts, and she
would walk past our door, creak a board, as it were, and go on
down the front-stairs, and sometimes we would hear a voice. In
the day-time we tried to make a board creak outside our door
but never succeeded. Other nights we would hear voices close
up against the window, some one moving about in the room
beneath us, the sound as of a ladder put against the window and of
some one climbing up very heavily, and sometimes we would also
have our door-handle turning slowly in the middle of the night.
The strange part of it was that we always woke suddenly, feeling
very frightened, and then heard something. We all heard several
times the sound as if heavy boxes were being dragged all over the
roof and then banged down ;
or one night we would wake and
hear a sound as if a lamp was being smashed to bits close by, or
else one heard doors opening and shutting.
In the night-nursery the nurse heard frequent rappings, bangs
on the iron-work at the head of her bed, chests of drawers being
forced over and violent blows struck on various pieces of furniture.
In the night-nursery our children used to hear some one rushing
up and down the piece of landing leading to it soon after they
were in bed, at 6.30 p.m., and our little girl used to ask us very
nervously what it was. At the time we thought she had imagined
it, but years after we found how true it was.
Another night when she was in bed she was frightened by hear-
ing constant groaning coming from just below the open window. I
went up to her and told her that her father and I were down-
stairs and that we should hear if
anything was wrong. When I went
down and told my husband he said that he had heard some curious
groaning noises, but had said nothing. We went up to the little
1914. The Haunting of House. 279
girl again, and suddenly there came a most terrible groan as from
a man in deadly agony, just below the window. My husband
looked out, fully expecting to see some one terribly hurt lying out-
side, but could see nothing, though it was a beautiful summer
night; the need to look to the nervous and crying child, whom we
took into our room for the night, prevented him from carrying
out his intention of going out into the garden to see what was
wrong. We never knew of any reason for the groans.
1
Some days we had the feeling of the most terrible depression,
we all had it. About 1909, when my husband was ill in bed with
influenza, I was sitting with him about 6 p.m. one summer's day
and I kept hearing the most strange and uncanny noise as of some
unknown animal underneath my wardrobe. It went on at intervals
for about a quarter of an hour, and at last I spoke about it, and
my husband said he wondered how long it would be before I said
anything, as he too had heard it. I got up and looked under the
wardrobe but could find nothing, and as I was going towards the
door the noise seemed to follow me, and whatever it was gave a
final shriek and it was all over. It was most uncanny.
Another night when my husband and I were reading by the
drawing-room fire, sitting on either side of the hearth, we heard an
old man's asthmatic cough close to us on the hearth, apparently
proceeding from the centre of the fire which was alight. One
Sunday night every one had gone to church except my husband
and my little boy, who was in bed upstairs; the latter thought he
heard some one on the landing and very pluckily went out to see who
was there. He was walking towards the nursery when he heard
creaking footsteps following him, and he screamed so, that my
husband rushed up and found him terrified.
When our younger girl was six or seven, she had not long gone
to bed in the night-nursery one Sunday evening when she saw
something black standing at the side of her bed. For a minute
she thought it must be the governess, when suddenly she saw her
little brother jump on the bed in his pyjamas. She said, "He had
not any feet and he seemed to go away all grey, and I screamed
and screamed 'cause I knew that he was at school, and I shall
write and tell him he's very naughty aud he's never to do that
again."
1
This occurred before Mr. Long at any rate had any thoughts of the super-
natural. He went to the window, not doubting in the least that there was
a person outside in fearful pain. F. J. M. S.
280 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
The boy had gone back to school on the East Coast a few
days before a week late, having been ill. Our little girl talked
of it for weeks after. She was, of course, much frightened at the
time, and gave me the account I have just given directly I came
from church. The governess was fortunately in the next room and
had gone to her at once.
As time went on we had so little peace that (about two years
ago) we decided to ask the advice of a well-known priest who
had had much experience in these matters. He came over and
read certain prayers in each room in the house and sprinkled holy
water into every corner. On returning that same night there was a
most wonderful feeling in the house as of intense rarity of atmos-
phere, all ghostly feeling had gone out of the house and for nearly
a year we had absolute peace, and then the occurrences began again.
On one occasion I had a friend (a sister-in-law) staying in the
house our little boy had also a school friend staying there and I
had gone by train leaving her at home ;
I must mention that we were
having a children's party two days later. I got back that day
about four o'clock, but it was not till the evening that my friend
suddenly said,
" What a charming maid you have got in to help at
the party." I stared at her, and she looked rather puzzled and
said,
" I have never seen a more delightful face." I then told her
that I had not got in any one extra, and she told me that she was
coming downstairs at twelve o'clock that morning and this girl
was doing something at one of the stairs that she was in a deep
pink zephyr dress and pretty apron with no cap on, and her hair
on the top of her head, and that she had the most happy and
beautiful face. My friend said,
" I should know her anywhere." She
then owned that the figure did not move nor look at her as she
passed, and, as my friend naturally thought she was just an extra
maid, she did not speak to her, but walked on downstairs and went
into the drawing-room. The little boy staying with us said he saw
her too, but no one else in the house saw her. We have since
always spoken of her as "the Pink Maid." It. was a strange
coincidence that only the night before my friend had said to my
husband and myself that if she could only see something she should
believe in ghosts, but that she herself had never had an experi-
ence. Many uncanny noises were heard that night.
1
x
ln reply to a request for a confirmatory account this lady writes to Mrs.
Long [in a letter received July 11, 1913], "I thought of writing out the
ghost experiences yesterday, but last night I was surrounded by fears and
19U. '/'//< If,* anting of
- -
House. 281
\\V h'ft in June, 1913, and from January to June we had a
terrible time. Strangely it dated specially from the time we had
an old pump in the scullery taken up, and we began to wonder if
the strange happenings in the house had anything to do with the
well. We had four servants in the house, all with excellent refer-
ences, and they will each vouch for the truth of the following
incidents. Two of them were very sceptical of the ghosts, having
never had an experience themselves, though the other two were
suffering badly.
(2) THE LAST Six MoNTirs. 1
July, 1913.
. . . After this the parlour-maid, who had had no experiences
during the four months she had been with us, slept in the same
room [as the sewing-maid],
-
and they both woke, and both heard
a mad rushing or dancing up and down the landing and in the
coat-hall underneath, and also heard notes of music. I happened
to be awake very late and my door open, and the landing seemed
to me full of distant sounds, and I heard notes of music, and the
jangling together of stirrups, as it were.
One Saturday afternoon my husband and little girl and I had
been motoring, and had just had tea. A maid was coming through
the hall as it was beginning to get dusk, and she saw some one in
grey going upstairs round the bend of the stairs. She thought
nothing of it, as she thought it was my husband in his usual dark
grey suit, and was much surprised when she went on into the
drawing-room to fetch the tea things to find us all three there.
The parlour-maid was out, and this girl was an unimaginative
under-servant aged 17. ...
At supper one night the old cook, who prided herself on not
discomforts, so resolved to have nothing to do with any research or to think
about spirits. I acknowledge their presence, of course, but I will do nothing
to arouse them. I don't think it leads to any good, and I wish you would
not do it either. You may, of course, quote anything I have told you, and
I think you remember as accurately as I could. Please don't think I want to
be disobliging. I don't want another night disturbed, and I felt it as a
warning." F. J. M. S.
1
The second part of Mrs. Long's report includes an account of the experiences
which various servants had at this time. Since tirst-hand accounts of many
of these experiences are given later, Mrs. Long's report of them is omitted. Ed.
r
For the sewing-maid's account of her experiences, see below.
282 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
believing in ghosts, said,
"
Oh, nonsense ;
if the ghost comes to me,
1 shall shake hands with him," and laughed and jeered.
That same night she woke suddenly (this is always about 1 or
2 a.m.), and saw coming towards her from the window a tall, black
shadow. It leaned over her, and with a very long hand clawed her
backwards and forwards across her chest over the bed-clothes then
waited a few seconds, and did it again, and she screamed. Then it
seemed to lie on her, and hold her down.
Two nights after, her wrist, which was under the clothes, was
seized, and held so tightly she could hardly move her arm for a
day or two. We then took her out of that room for three weeks,
when she felt brave enough to go back, but she never laughed at
them again. . . .
On March 25th and 26th the house seemed to be alive all day
and night. In the nursery in the morning, the wardrobe was hit
with a great bang, and the sewing machine box was hit as if with
a whip. Close to where the sewing-maid sat she heard, as it were,
a dog getting up with floppy ears and shaking himself. The girl
went down into the kitchen feeling nervous, and when there all
four servants heard some one walk through the nursery over-
head, and stamp on the landing. At night there were sounds as
if two people were fighting on the landing, and they heard the
sound of the blows. Loud bangs were also heard all night long.
The next day when we were out, as the maid was cleaning the
dining-room window, there were constant loud hits on the oak-table
as if some one kept hitting it, and nearly all day long some
one walked up and down the landing when there was no one
upstairs.
On March 27th, 1913, at 10 a.m., when the maid was doing my
room, there were constant raps at my door, as if some one were
rapping with a flat hand, and she felt that some one was by her
side all the time she was sweeping. . . .
One evening about 7 p.m., I was sitting in the nursery, and
there was a sound as of a stick snapped in two just in front of my
nose. All who were in the room heard it, and wondered what I
had done, and I looked to see what they had done. They said that
there had been a shadow on the ceiling just over where I was
sitting just before, but they had not told me.
That night the sewing and parlour-maid slept in the same room,
in the night nursery, and all night long great chattering was going
on underneath in the coat-hall, and they heard loud trumpet blasts
1914. The Haunting of House. 283
nearly all night long, then something very heavy seemed to fall, and
all was quiet.
Loud bangs were of frequent occurrence. One afternoon my
little girl of ten was in the day nursery with the sewing-maid,
and some one whistled in the room. My little girl of course said
"Whatever's that?" and soon after she said, "Well, if I believed
in ghosts, I should say it was a ghost." (She knew nothing
about it.) ...
One night when all the servants had gone to bed, my husband
and I were in the drawing-room about 11.20 p.m., when I heard
my little girl of ten call "Mother," and yet not very loudly. I
went upstairs at once, and she said,
"
I only called you, mother,
because I heard you come upstairs, and go past the door; but
wasn't it you, mother? Because I couldn't understand it when you
called 'Yes' from downstairs." No one had been upstairs, as we
had had the drawing-room door open, and could see the stairs ;
this often happened.
During the last few weeks beautiful singing was heard by the
servants very often on their landing on one occasion three of
them were together. They said it was like many voices singing
some most beautiful tune which they did not know, and the
evening they heard it they kept seeing
" shadows as of people
"
moving about. . . .
One morning in June, when the parlour-maid was doing my
room, my voice said to her quite distinctly from by the chest of
drawers, "P ," but I was in Birmingham, and later on that
morning they heard some one come upstairs and go into my room
and the bathroom, and thought I had come in, but I had not.
They went to see immediately if any one ivas there, as we always
did. My voice is very often heard calling some one when I have
never called, and in all parts of the house, where you could not
hear if I did call. One morning I went upstairs, and, thinking
the maid was in my room, I said, as I turned in, "Edith," and
her voice said quite distinctly, "Yes, madam," but she was not
there, so I went into the next room, feeling sure she was there, and
said,
"
Oh, will you . .
.," but there was no one there. A few
minutes later she came up the back stairs, nowhere near where I
was, as she had been fetching some coal, and of course had no idea
I wanted her.
One night in May I woke for no reason, and at once wondered
what woke me, and then heard a voice close to me say,
"
What
284 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT-NOV.
would you say if he did?" Another night, when all the servants
were at supper, they heard loud and terrible screams from the old
pump in the scullery, and beating against the boards, and at last
rushed terrified to us in the dining-room, and we went immediately,
but always directly you begin to listen the noises stop. . . .
I have omitted to say that during the last ten days before we
left my husband and I were both writing in the dining-room one
night. The hall lamp had been lighted since 8 p.m., and had been
a nice, bright light all night. Also, if a lamp is going to flare
up, it does it soon after it is lighted, or if some one has turned
it up too high, or if there is a draught. At 10.15 I happened to
go through the hall, and specially noticed what a nice, clear light
the lamp was giving. At 10.30 we heard a smash, rushed out, and
the lamp was flaring up, and the chimney broken. We felt it
most strange, and after putting it out, we went on with our
writing. We had two large Beige lamps on the table. One
gradually kept going lower, in spite of our turning it up, and
gradually went out altogether. I, of course, tried to think it had
not been filled, though I practically knew it had been. Presently
the other one did the same thing, so we went to bed. The next
morning the lamps, which had both been filled the morning before,
had plenty of oil in, and the wicks were all right. A few nights
after, my husband, who always puts the lamp on the landing out
himself, last thing, says that that special night he even thought
about it specially as he put it out, as we were rather uncertain
about things, wondering if the spirits were going to set us on
fire.
Next morning the parlour-maid came out of the night nursery
soon after 6 a.m. (she slept there, as the sewing-maid was so
nervous), and saw the landing lamp flaring up, and moved right to
the very edge of the chest, where it is never put, so that in
another minute it must have fallen on to the carpet just outside
our bedroom door. She quickly put it out, and could not make it
out, as my husband never forgets that lamp.
For weeks past the nursery lamp would be left an ordinary
medium light, whilst the servants were at supper, and when some one
next went up it had been turned nearly out, and yet the same
lamp would burn all night long in the night nursery. They all
slept with a light the last few mouths.
There is no question, "the spirits" very often tampered with the
lamps.
1914. The Haunting of
- House. 285
The sewing-maid told me that before shy knew about the house
she hail written to her friends, and said she could not understand
why the servants at our house stayed up so late that she often
heard them walking about in the coat-hall underneath her room
between 1 and 2 a.m. Later on one of these friends came to us as
parlour-maid, and heard "the walking" herself, and had various
other experiences.
We have heard nothing of any occurrences since we left so far,
and the caretaker, who is already appointed, is to live in the man's
cottage, so no one will be living in the house itself any more. No
villagers know about it.
[Signed] M. LONG.
The following is Mr. Long's account :
August 21, 1913.
During the twelve years we lived at [
-
House] I had very
many peculiar experiences, which could not, I think, be accounted
for by natural causes. I am naturally sceptical, and for a long
time refused to believe that any experiences encountered by others
of my household could not be explained by ordinary causes. I
frankly admit that my opinion in this respect would have remained
unshaken but for my own personal experiences, and I was ulti-
mately forced to the conclusion that they could have no other than
a supernatural origin.
It is impossible for me now to give in writing more than a few
of my own experiences.
In November, 1908, I was staying with my wife and children
with some friends near Wrexham. I returned home by myself,
leaving them there. On reaching home I found a good many
business papers and letters awaiting me. I had dinner and went
to bed, probably about 11 o'clock, taking my correspondence with
me. I got into bed, lit
my pipe, and was soon absorbed in my
correspondence. In about probably half an hour I distinctly heard
some one walk down the passage and into the bathroom, adjoin-
ing my room. The walk seemed to be that of a woman. There
are two doors into the bathroom, one from the landing, and
one from my bedroom. I at once jumped out of bed, and
unlocked and opened the door leading from my room to the
bathroom, taking with me a lighted candle. No one was there,
and I quickly passed through the bathroom to the landing and
the passage, but clearly no one was there. I said,
" Who's
286 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
there
1
?" but got no reply. I got back to bed and was soon at my
reading again. I had read for probably another half-hour when
I heard voices at my window. They appeared to be men's voices^
and they sounded as if they were just outside my window. I
remember thinking that any way this was real enough, as the
voices were quite distinct, and I wondered if my Works were
on fire and a messenger had been sent over in the night from
B to fetch me. I once more got out of bed and opened the
window, only to find it
raining and blowing hard, and I at once
recognised that the sound of even loud talking in the garden below
could not possibly reach me in my room, above the noise of wind
and rain. I got back into bed wondering what it could all mean,
when I heard a woman's shrill, uncanny laugh from the garden
below. At the risk of provoking ridicule, I must describe that
laugh as devilish and unearthly, and for the rest of the night I
kept my light burning.
On another night I sat up fairly late reading, my wife having
gone to bed. Probably about 12.30 or 1 o'clock a.m. I put out
the light, locked the dining-room door, and was about to cross the
hall with the object of putting out the hall lamp, when I heard
a voice proceeding from the hall ceiling. It was a woman's voice,
very sweet and appealing, and I tried hard to hear what it said,
but could not catch any of the words. It was not unlike my wife's
voice. I put out the light and went upstairs. My wife was
awake, and I casually asked her if she had called to me, but it
was evident she had done nothing of the kind.
Another night at about the same spot in the hall, I felt an icy
cold wind pass over my face. This was not any ordinary draught
or anything like it. Of this I am convinced. No doors or windows
were open.
On another occasion I slept in a room called the spare-room.
I awoke suddenly, and after about a minute I heard a distinct
knock on the door. I got up and opened the door, but no one
was there. The next night I awoke again, and directly afterwards
I heard a noise like a motor-horn under the bed. I lit a candle
and looked everywhere, but could discover no explanation. Shortly
afterwards I heard a loud crash, as if a heavy stone had been
thrown at the looking-glass. I looked round the room again, but
nothing had fallen, nor could I find anything that could possibly
afford any explanation of the noise.
On another occasion I woke very early, about 5 o'clock. It was-
1914. The Haunting of
- - House.
quite light, and I was surprised to hear the sound of children's voices
proceeding apparently from the garden below. From the sound
there might have been twenty or thirty children, all talking
together. I looked out of the window, but, of course, there was
no one there, nor was it likely there would be, as it was far too
early.
[Signed] J. LONG.
At my interview with Mr. and Mrs. Long, the former
confirmed the stories in his wife's account in which he also
was concerned, and added several others which he had not
had time to write out in his own account. These are given
below :
One night, after noises had been heard in the garden, and
as there was some reason to believe that burglars were
working in the neighbourhood, Mr. Long, the local policeman,
and the gardener were sitting in the dining-room discussing
what was the best line to take in the matter. There was
no light in the room, so that the alarm should not be given
to any possible marauders, and there was no question of the
supernatural in Mr. Long's mind at that time. While they
were talking there sounded on a wine cooler which stood
as a coal-hod on the opposite side of the fireplace to
the gardener and policeman a most tremendous smash as
though it had been struck violently with a very heavy stick.
The gardener and policeman walked across to it and examined
it, but there was no sign of any dent or mark on it.
Another night something appears to have badly frightened
the horse in its locked-up stable. For the following morning
Mr. Long was called up early by the groom to look at the
horse. It had broken its headstall in the night, cut itself
badly about the head, knees and sides, and bumped its eyes
till they were swollen badly. The horse was really a wreck
and had to be sold. The veterinary surgeon who was called
in said that
"
the animal must have been thoroughly
frightened." The same night was a disturbed one for Mr.
and Mrs. Long ;
and also the groom in his cottage a hundred
yards away from the stable heard a noise as though a
heavy lamp had been thrown to the ground and smashed.
In reference to the question of the possibility of the horse
being disturbed in the same way as the occupants of the
288 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
house, it may be mentioned that the house dog showed
signs of disturbance only through markedly avoiding certain
rooms.
Another curious experience of Mr. Long's was the follow-
ing : One Wednesday evening he came home from business
and went upstairs for a wash and to see the children. From
the end of the passage leading to the night-nursery he saw
the cat on the table in the day-nursery helping itself to the
children's supper. He went in and drove the cat away,
calling out,
"
I say, the cat's on the table again."
"
Yes,"
came the answer in the voice of Miss H., the governess.
Miss H. was in church at the time, and there was no one
in the room.
Other experiences of Mr. Long include the rattling of the
front-door chain one night, and a curious rattling against
the wall of a picture on the staircase one very still day when
Mr. Long was just going upstairs. Once when standing
carving he seemed to catch sight through the open door
of a dark bat-like creature flying out of the hall into the
drive. Mrs. Long had a somewhat similar experience once
later when waking after lying down for a rest upstairs. It
was only after hearing of her experience that Mr. Long
repeated his. On one occasion when Mr. Long was in the
bathroom adjoining his bedroom, with the door between the
two rooms closed, he heard a loud bang on the door. Mrs.
Long, who was in the bedroom, noticed nothing. On another
occasion, just as Mr. Long was going off to business, he
called out to his wife, and she appeared to answer "
Yes."
But he could not find her for some time, as she was out of
earshot at the far end of the house, shut up in the larder
and talking to the cook.
The sewing-maid's account (abridged) is as follows:
[Received in August, 1913.]
My first experience (but I did not know I was in a haunted
house) was that I was awakened by something which was pressing
me down into the bed. The feeling was most deathly. After
that I often heard people talking downstairs, and bolting and chain-
ing the front door, after every one had gone to bed. . . . Sometimes
a woman walked the landing, swished her skirts as she passed my
door, sometimes gave the door a gentle tap, another time it would
1914. The Haunting of
-
be a loud knock. There were often sounds of a woman crying,
sometimes laughing. One morning I was awakened and I saw a
woman's face looking at me. . . . Another morning ... I saw a face
again. . . .
Again another morning, when I woke, there was a tall
woman stood by my bedside. She was dressed in grey, some-
thing thin, which seemed to cover her right over from her head. . . .
Mostly every night my bed was shaken, the furniture all seemed
alive . . . even the china on the washstand would all crash to-
gether. . . . Once in the night
" it
"
spoke to me. I had been
making up my mind to go to a certain place. I was lying in bed
thinking about it, when a voice very clearly called me by name,
and said,
" Don't go, whatever you do, don't go." . . . Another time
I heard a bird whistling, also a cock crowing. ... I have also heard
singing and music being played, but when you stopped to listen it
always seemed to get higher and higher and drift away. . . .
[This account is unsigned, but the maid's name and address
hi'cc been given to us. ED.]
Miss S., the housekeeper, who lived at --- House for
five years, reports that once, when she and a friend were in
the nursery about midnight, they heard "
a dreadful noise
on the landing outside, like the flapping of the wings of a
huge bird." They went out on to the landing, but could see
nothing. On another occasion, when she was sleeping with
Mrs. Long's little boy, she was awakened by hearing
"
a
dreadful noise, like something very heavy falling. She got
up expecting to see that the boy had fallen out of bed, but
he was fast asleep.
"
The room was filled with a sort of
blue smoke and smelt strongly of sulphur. There was no
fire in the room at the time." Nearly every night she was
awakened by noises of different sorts, lights flashing under-
neath the bedroom door,
"
sounds as if some one were dragging
heavy furniture overhead." All the sounds took place about
the same time, namely 2 a.m.
One afternoon in November, when she was in the garden,
she saw what she
"
took to be a man looking out of the
drawing-room window." He turned as if to sit at the piano,
so she thought it was the piano-tuner and went to speak to
him. On entering the drawing-room and finding no one there
she was greatly surprised. She had felt so sure it was
290 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
the piano-tuner that, on entering the house, she had asked
the maid "
whether she had given the piano-tuner a clean
duster." The maid had seen no one, and Miss S. had the
whole house searched,
"
but no one could be found." One
night in November, 1911, when sleeping in the spare room
[" the worst room in the house "], Miss S.
"
had the strange
feeling of some one trying to strangle
"
her. She "
distinctly
felt the fingers pressed round [her] throat." The feeling lasted
about half a second.
The following account was given by a nurse, who attended
on Mrs. Long :
[Received in August, 1913.]
On Nov. 10, 1908, I went to House in the capacity of nurse
to Mrs. Long, who was in bed with a form of heart trouble all
the four months I spent there.
My patient's room and the nursery were at opposite ends of a
corridor, and my bedroom was between the two. Mrs. Long's
j^oungest child was always put to bed in the nursery, and late at
night (generally between 10.30 and 11) Mr. Long used to carry
her into his wife's room after my duties were ended and I had gone
to bed.
I had been in the house some weeks when one night I was
awakened by footsteps going along the corrider, and the distinct
creak of a board as the foot pressed it just opposite my door. A
few seconds later a clock struck twelve. In the morning I
remarked, "Mr. Long was very late fetching Hope last night."
Mrs. Long asked: "What makes you think so
1
?" I said, "The
clock struck twelve just as I heard him." She returned some
evasive reply.
Shortly after that a distinct tap on my door in the night roused
me. I called out, "Yes, Mr. Long." On the few occasions
when my patient required my help after I had gone to bed, Mr.
Long was in the habit of tapping and immediately saying that
Mrs. Long would like me to come to her. Instead of the usual
reply the tap was repeated. I at once rose and went to the door.
No one was there. Feeling quite sure that the tapping was a real
call, I went quickly to Mrs. Long's door and listened for some
time. There was no sound, and I retired much puzzled. I spoke
of this to Mrs. Long, but she again returned an evasive reply.
Very soon after this I once more heard footsteps in the night and
1914. The Haunting of
- - House. 291
the creak of the board outside my door, and this time it happened
as the clock struck two. I was concerned, thinking the late hour
very unsuitable for Mrs. Long, and I spoke about it in the
morning. Mrs. Long then asked me if I ever heard the board
creak during the day. I said "No," although I walked over it
practically every hour. I went then and there, tried all the board*
several times, and could not make a sound with any of them. I
am not quite sure whether Mrs. Long told me then that
mysterious sounds had been heard in the house, but it would be
about this time that I began to think there was some supernatural
agency at work.
One day I was sitting at work in the nursery, when I heard
Mrs. Long's voice call "Nurse, nurse," most distinctly. I ran
along the passage and went quickly into the room to my patient's
surprise. I felt it almost impossible to believe she had not called.
The house was absolutely quiet, and I think this puzzled me more
than anything which had happened. A few days later, finding the
housekeeper was not at liberty to attend to Mrs. Long's bell
during my walk, I asked the housemaid (a new-comer who had only
arrived a few days previously from Essex) to go up if she were
wanted. I returned to find the girl greatly disturbed. " I've done
almost no work, nurse. Mrs. Long has been calling to me. I've
been up at her door a good bit of the time, I got so nervous."
"Do you mean ringing her bell
1
?" I enquired. "No; calling my
name."
It would have been an absolute impossibility for any one in the
servants' offices to hear a call from Mrs. Long's bedroom. I did
not want to arouse any suspicion in the maid's mind, and I told her
she probably would not be asked to do this again, and not to feel
worried.
The creak of the board, the footsteps in the corridor, and the
tapping on my door were fairly frequent occurrences. I thought a
good deal about these things, but never had any sensation of fear.
I had never been to [the village] before, knew no one there, and no
one had told me a word about any unusual happenings in that
house until I had had the distinct experiences of my own.
I should add that during the last month of my stay there the
youngest child slept in my room, and the two others returned from
school for the holidays. To the best of my belief I heard no noises
which could not be reasonably accounted for during that time.
[Signed] M. E. I.
292 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
A visitor staying in the house, Mr. W., had the following
experience :
July 20, 1913.
The following is an account of an experience when sleeping at
House some time ago, the exact date I cannot remember.
I am not in the 'habit of seeing or experiencing such things,
and, at the time, was not thinking of anything of the kind.
I am a very sound sleeper, and, unless ill, invariably sleep
soundly all night, and am not easily wakened.
I went to bed about 11.30 p.m., or midnight, and fell asleep at
once. At 2.30 a.m. (I looked at my watch at the time) I was
suddenly woken up, and sat up in bed, At the same instant I
heard my bedroom door open, and "
something
"
came into the
room. I neither saw nor heard it, but could "
feel
"
it, and could
tell its exact position in the room. It moved round the wall of the
room and round my bed, round the other wall and out of the door,
which I heard close again. I could feel its presence in the same way
that a person with their eyes shut would feel a hot or cold object
approaching or receding. I called out "Who is that?" but without
reply. I got out of bed and struck a light, but could see nothing
unusual. I tried the door, and found it latched. I looked out, but
could see nothing.
The room I was in was the spare room, which I have slept in
several times, but have never experienced anything unusual except
at this time.
[Signed] V. \V.
Another visitor, the wife of the local doctor, writes as
follows :
July 12, 1913.
On an occasion recently when I had tea with Mrs. Long in the
drawing-room at [B House] I certainly had some unusual
experiences, which I will do my best to describe.
While we were talking I distinctly heard a quiet moan from the
corner of the room where the piano was placed. A few minutes
later, while we were conversing, I was looking, without any inten-
tion, at the wall just above the piano when I saw what appeared
to me to be a ball of vapour, about the size of a golf ball, float
slowly across the wall just above the piano and then disappear.
1914. The Haunting of
- House. 293
I must confess to some very creepy feelings after that. I felt com-
pelled to turn round when I was standing near the door, as it
there was some one behind me.
This was only my second visit to the house. I have never had
any such experiences before.
[Signed] M. T. 1
One other experience remains to be told. It was the only
one in which any members of the village were concerned, and
except for the two boys themselves, no one else appears to
have been excited by it. One night the newspaper boys wha
came round regularly with the evening paper saw an old man
in a top-hat sitting on the rockery in the drive. Something
about him frightened the boys, and they fled back to the road,
when he suddenly appeared to them in the shrubbery on the
other side of the rockery. They ran away, and would never
again come up the drive with the paper. Instead they used
to go a long way round and come across a field-path to the
back of the house.
In response to further queries raised by the Secretary of
the S.P.E., Mrs. Long gave the following additional informa-
tion :
March 2, 1914.
Within the last few weeks my husband heard from the nephews
of the people who sold the house to us that they believed that their
relatives knew it was haunted that they were always having the
doors rapped and no one there, and they believed the ornaments
walked from one shelf to another ! But they were not clear what
did happen. As we asked at the time and were told by the
people who sold it us that they had never heard anything, I am
afraid they will not own up now. Other tenants we know nothing
of and could not trace. . . .
There is nothing in the garden to account for the noises, no iron
bands on trees, etc., nor loose iron fixtures anywhere. We had the
roof and everywhere searched, and my husband went up too. . . .
I wrote to the governess, who was so frightened several times,
but I never had an answer.
x
lt is from the husband of this lady that Mr. and Mrs. Long expect to
hear if anything curious enough to excite suspicion amongst the villagers-
occurs at the clubhouse into which the house is being turned.
294 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
That is the whole story so far as it can be gathered
together at present. Questions put to Mr. and Mrs. Long
elicited the following facts, some of which may have a
bearing on the question.
No one, so far as they know, could have had any motive
for wishing to drive them away from the house, and certainly
the question of the house being converted into a village club
was only mooted in the last few months. The manservant
several times went on to the roof in fact all over it and on
to a lower part between the rafters, and there was no trace
of rats nor of anything else. In fact, no rats were ever seen
in the house. Windows, doors, door handles were all
examined in turn, and many experiments were made in
looking for loose boards, etc., in the landing. The house is
about 45 yards from a main road, and about 600 yards from
the railway.
The pump was taken up and put outside simply because
the wood looked old. That was only done in March, 1913.
The well was thoroughly examined, and a small drag was put
down, but nothing was found, though
"
at times it seemed as
though some one was beating against the boards which were
laid across it, and at other times shrieks seemed to come from
it."
1
The drains were tested in 1906 when the boy was
down with diphtheria of which there were several cases
about in the village and near his school. But they were in
perfect order. However, to be on the safe side after the boy
was well, the drains were all cased in cement under expert
advice. It does not seem, likely that any theory based upon
the effect of poisonous gases in producing hallucinations can
apply.
It does not seem possible to trace the phenomena to the
presence of any one person. Mrs. Long has her first experi-
ences before her husband comes back. He has his most
striking ones when she is away from home. Many servants
left at short notice, and most of those who stayed seemed to
have in some way a very unpleasant time. Three trained
sick-nurses and several visitors had uncanny experiences.
The account of one sick nurse has already been given. A
second nurse, when asked by Mrs. Long in July, 1913, to
1
Letter from Mrs. Long.
1914. The Haunting of
- - House. 295
write her account, replied as follows in a letter dated July 13,
1913:
"You have asked me to do a very difficult thing for me just
now. I will try and do it unless you would do it for me, aii<l I
will sign my name to it or copy it out. (Here follows a passage
explaining how busy the nurse was.) So would you write it out
for me and I will copy it ? You can do it so much better than I
could. If I were not so dreadfully pushed I would not ask you,
but make a try. I will put in any little thing you have left out,
if you will."
The account was not written out for her. When at the
suggestion of the Secretary of the S.P.R. the nurse was appealed
to again in March, 1914, she replied as follows:
"I am awfully sorry to say that I really cannot do what you
ask me. To be honest with you, I have had so much to occupy
my thoughts since I left you that I have forgotten really about
the ghost."
The third nurse was only at the house for a few days
and has been lost sight of.
Several earlier experiences of Mrs. Long's must be mentioned,
which may be important. The earliest thing she remembers
at all resembling the events at House was a sudden
awakening one night, the feeling as of a hot breath and the
-hearing of three knocks on a round Chippendale table in the
bedroom. This was long previous to her living at House.
At the previous house she lived in she once on three consecu-
tive nights shared in some curious happenings.
1. One morning early, when lying awake talking quietly
to her husband, she heard her elder daughter come running
into the room from the night-nursery.
"
Yes, mother," said
the little girl. "I didn't call you," said Mrs. Long. "Yes,
you did, mother ;
I heard you several times." And the nurse
confirmed this. The child's name one of four syllables was
unlikely to be confused with any other sound which might
have reached the nursery, and it was heard several times by
both child and nurse.
2. The next night Mrs. Long went into the bedroom and
found a horrible, unearthly smell. She called some one else
in to smell it, and it had gone.
296 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT.-NOV.
3. On the morning following the next night Mrs. Long had
news of the serious illness of a friend. She was going upstairs
from the dining-room to tell her husband when she heard
the dining-room bell ringing. As she knew that she had just
left the room empty, she turned back to see the meaning of
the bell ringing, and found the maid coming in with the
plates the natural result of the bell. The room was
empty !
The following night Mrs. Long herself was taken seriously
ill.
The only experience at all akin to those at House
ever experienced by Mr. Long was at quite another time,,
once when he heard a decided rap on his door, a rap that
was never explained.
Mrs. Long has heard two unexplained noises since leaving
the house last June. One was at Harrogate, and was a
rapping high up on the wall of her bedroom, and the other
was at Eedcar. In this latter case she and her little daughter
and maid were alone on the top floor of a lodging-house, when
she heard a huge bang and kick at the door of her bedroom.
She rapped on the wall to the maid's room the maid was a.
new one engaged just for the stay at the seaside and had never
been at House and the maid came through, but the noise
was unexplained. As, however, Mrs. Long had possibly told
the maid about her experiences at House, it is not im-
possible that this noise was a foolish trick on the maid's part.
In any case, later phenomena are of less value than earlier
ones in deciding .whether in any way Mrs. Long can be regarded
as the catalytic agent who started the phenomena at
House.
An alternative theory is one which found favour for a time
with Mr. and Mrs. Long. While in New Zealand, at the time
when Mrs. Long entered into - -
House, Mr. Long took from
a Maori temple or
"
warri," which was "
under Tapu
"
(or given
over to evil spirits), a sort of hideous idol. He brought it-
home and kept it in the hall, and Mr. and Mrs. Long often
wondered if it could have anything to do with the noises. A
few weeks before they left they took it down and burned it,
on the advice of a missionary, and Mrs. Long added that the
experiences with the lamps followed this ! The late Andrew
inn. 7V" //<"//;,/ of
- II-, we. 297
Lang should have found in this suggestion a fit subject for a
delightful paper.
For my own part, I am free to confess that I have no
theory as to the nature or the cause of the phenomena described
above. In the first accounts I heard the phenomena were
nearly all of one class, auditory, and I was inclined to think
of some gaseous exhalation in the house, which induced auditory
hallucinations. The pump and the diphtheria fitted in with
this view. The careful attention to drains was against it, as
also the widening of the range of hallucinations. Then I
thought of the phenomena being traced to some one person,
and I found that view untenable. The Maori spirits could
hardly be expected to begin performing in Mrs. Long's home
in an English village long before the figure had been taken
back to England and to the house. The hypothesis of
"
nerves
"
does not help me, as I still seek for a reason why a large
number of different people should have had such attacks of
"
nerves
"
at this one house during the past twelve years. Xo
explanation suggested so far seems to meet the case, which
must for the present rest as one more piece of evidence await-
ing explanation, and waiting also to take its share in the
building up of a general theory of haunting.
CASES.
P. 288. Dream.
THE following case of a premonitory dream was sent to us by the
percipient, Mrs. Jenkyns, who, in enclosing her account, writes :
99 LEXHAM GARDENS,
KENSINGTON, W., July 12, 1914.
I am sending you a very curious experience that befell me two
years ago [when we were living at St. Leonards-on-Sea]. If I had
not told my dream to five people before it was fulfilled, I should
have imagined I might have been mistaken, but any one of those
people, with the exception of my husband, who died shortly after,
would testify to the truth of my statement.
298 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
The account is as follows :
July 12, 1914.
On the 6th of June, 1912, I dreamed my husband and I were
staying at an old-fashioned hotel on the banks of the Thames, high
up. We were dressing early in the morning, and I had just taken
from the dressing table the jewellery I had worn the previous
evening, an opal locket and two or three other little ornaments, when
a knock at the door heralded the arrival of a chambermaid, who said
a friend of mine, Mrs. R., was waiting in a bedroom near, No. 40,
and would like to see me. Just as I was, with the jewellery still
in my hand, I rushed to No. 40, anxious to learn the reason for so
very early a visit, and as I entered the room, the open sleeve of
my dressing-gown caught on the handle of the door and jerked the
things I was carrying out of my hand on to the floor. Not waiting
to pick them up, I went straight to Mrs. R,., who was standing in
the deep square bay of the window. "What on earth brings you
here at such an hour?" I said: "it is only just seven. Anything
gone wrong]"
"No," she replied, "but I have always wanted to come down
here, and Mr. J. (mentioning a mutual friend) offered to motor me
down this morning, and suggested I might have breakfast with you.
It was this room I particularly wanted to see, on account of its
curious history."
As she spoke I glanced round, and saw a large, square, low-
ceilinged room, with paper and carpet all faded into a blur of drab,
old-fashioned mahogany furniture, a big four-poster with twisted
columns, and white dimity hangings ;
in the bay, a large dressing-
table draped with the same dimity, and curtains at the windows to
match.
"Well," I said, "it looks to me like any other old room. What
is the history 1
"
"Some time ago," she began, "a young Hungarian shot himself
here, and since then there have been numberless fatalities two
have occurred quite recently. A maid cleaning the room picked up
a button. On it was the likeness of a very handsome dark young
man. That very day she was knocked down and fatally injured by
a motor car in front of the hotel. Soon afterwards a visitor who
was put into this room was dressing, and picking up a fallen stud
saw the same face pictured on it. He was killed by his own car
that afternoon."
mil. Cu
"How gruesome!" I exclaimed. "I had better not leave my
things on the floor any longer, but save them while they are all
right." I stooped and picked up my locket, and to my horror as
I looked at it the opal cleared like cigar smoke dissipating, until
from a brilliant crystal there looked out at me the face of a young,
dark, good-looking man.
"I have seen it! I have seen it! I shall be the next," I
screamed, and woke shaking with excitement. The dream was so-
vivid that I could not shake off the impression, and I told my
sisters-in-law at breakfast all about it. Afterwards I described it to
my husband, who was an invalid, and his attendant male nurse, as
we sat on the esplanade during the morning, and then it passed
from my mind.
That afternoon the attendant had as usual gone to his home for
an hour or two, and as my husband wished to go out, I started to
take him on the front. Very soon after we had left the house, and
had stepped from the side walk to cross the road, a van drew in
close to me, and a motor cyclist not seeing us, and wishing to keep
on his right side of the road, ran into my back, threw me violently
on to the top of my head, and fell on me, bicycle and all. I was
frightfully bruised and shaken, and my husband, who was in his
invalid chair, and powerless to help me, was very agitated also I
was laid by for a month. Strangely enough, my dream did not
occur to me until one of my sisters-in-law reminded me of it.
M. S. JENKYNS.
It will be noted that the dream, impressing Mrs. Jenkyns by
its dramatic character only, quickly passed from her mind and
was not remembered until its premonitory significance was pointed
out to her after the accident. It seems clear, therefore, that the
dream did not help to bring about its own fulfilment.
The following confirmative statements are from Mrs. Jenkyns's
sisters-in-law :
17 REGENCY SQUARE, BRIGHTON, July 14, 1914.
I was present at the breakfast table when my sister-in-law, Mrs.
Jenkyns, now residing at 99 Lexhani Gardens, S.W., related to us
her curious dream about visiting at an up river hotel and a
friend telling her about a young man shooting himself in the room,
my sister-in-law was in, and that a maid had seen his face on a
button and was killed by a motor car, the same face was seen on a
300 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
stud and the person met the same fate, and a locket my sister-in-
law had, had an opal on it and that turned into a crystal with the
same face on it, and she screamed and called out " I have seen
it, so I shall be the next," and woke up. We all thought it so
curious, as she had a bad accident the following afternoon and we
reminded her about having told us a very realistic dream that very
morning; the date was early in June, 1912, and I can remember
being very interested at the time.
D. M. JENKYNS.
16 BEDFORD STREET, MARINE PARADE,
BRIGHTON, July 14, 1914.
I was one of the three sisters present at the breakfast table
when our sister-in-law, Mrs. Jenkyns, related her strange dream. As
you have probably heard from her, she was knocked down by a
motor-bicycle the same afternoon and very much hurt. This is
only to vouch for the truth of her story.
HOSE JENKYNS.
MARGATE, July 15, 1914.
Re my sister-in-law's dream. It was told to me in much the same
words [as the above accounts] at breakfast time, 9 o'clock, and at
about 5 o'clock the same day Mrs. Jenkyns was knocked down by
a motor-cycle.
EDITH JENKYNS.
Mr. T. J. Lowles, the attendant, writes :
55 CARISBROOKE ROAD,
ST. LEONARDS-ON-SEA, July 14, 1914.
Mrs. Jenkyns, of 99 Lexham Gardens, Kensington, has written
me to the effect that she has sent to your Society an account of
the extraordinary [dream] she had previous to the accident to her
on the afternoon of June 6, 1912, when she was knocked down
by a motor-bicycle, and that you wish it to be corroborated.
I am a male attendant, and was at that time living with Mr.
and Mrs. Jenkyns at 115 Marina, St. Leonards-on-Sea, as attendant
to Mr. Jenkyns, and was with them till he died.
I well remember Mrs. Jenkyns telling me of this dream when
we were sitting on the front in the morning of the day it happened,
also telling my wife what a strange dream it was.
So far as I can remember it was to the effect that Mrs. Jenkyns
was staying -at an hotel and while she was dressing she was
Cases. 301
called away to another room to see a friend ;
while there she
dropped some of her jewellery, at which her friend remarked how
unfortunate, and then told her the history of the room, namely
how a maid had found a button with a man's face on it and
had been killed by a motor car, a visitor had seen the same face
on a stud and met the same fate, and then when Mrs. Jenkyns
picked up her jewellery the opal in her locket had become a
crystal, with the same face looking from it, and she screamed,
" I
have seen it, I shall be the next," with that she awoke. I was at
home when the accident happened, but a friend of mine was on a
tram which was passing at the time and he sent me word. I went
back at once and found the dream had come true, with the excep-
tion that instead of being killed Mrs. Jenkyns was severely hurt.
T. J. Lowi i
P. 289. Dream.
WE are indebted to Mr. F. Harcourt Page for the following
case of a premonitory dream, which resembles in its main
features the disaster to three British cruisers on Sept. 22nd,
1914. Too much stress, however, should not be laid upon
the coincidence, for when we consider what a large place the
war occupies in the public mind, and the likelihood, therefore,
of war incidents figuring in dreams, the scope for the occurrence
of chance-coincidences is very great, especially in the case of
an event so probable as that represented in Mr. Page's dream.
Mr. Page's account, which we reprint from The Er^nimj
Standard and St. James s Gazette of Sept. 24th, 1914, is as
follows :
"THE TAMARISKS,"
EAST PRESTON, SUSSKX.
During the night of Friday last, September 18, I had a dream in
which I saw, with extraordinary clarity of vision, a large British
warship enticed close to what appeared to be the coast of Germany.
Suddenly, by means of an instrument not clearly revealed, great
flames leaped from the ship. Then two other British ships, similar
in appearance to the one burning, appeared, hastening to the aid
of their sister. They were steaming to their doom.
The first ship was but a lure to the others. A trap had been
set, and 1 could see, in the small German ships that hovered in
302 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov.
the vicinity, intense gratification at the approaching success of their
stratagem. I was possessed of a fierce desire to do something, to
warn those oncoming vessels of the sure fate that would be theirs
unless they stayed their approach. But with that utter sense of
helplessness experienced in dreams I could merely watch and avail
nothing. As the first ship had become a mass of flame and then
sunk beneath the sea, so did the other two share an identical end.
Quite as remarkable as the above is the fact that while still
asleep I was seized with the conviction that I must, as soon as I
awoke, inform the Admiralty of the dream I had had, imploring
them to pass it on to the Fleet in the North Sea, hoping that by
being forewarned a catastrophe might be averted.
Needless to say, on the Saturday morning, although I told my
friends (they will testify to the truth of this letter) of the remarkable
vision I had had, I did not approach the Admiralty. Incredulous
myself of such phenomena, I was certain the Admiralty would not
heed such a warning. Now, unhappily, it has come all too true.
While I cannot assert that the small German ships I observed
were submarines, and further, so far as we know at present, the
Aboukir did not become a mass of flame before she sank unless
the torpedo from the submarine exploded in her magazine I think
that the dream I had last Friday night of the disaster reported in
this morning's papers is correct in nearly every particular.
F. HARCOURT PAGE.
The following official statement regarding the disaster was
published in the morning papers of Sept. 23rd, 1914:
His Majesty's ships :
ABOUKIR (Captain John E. Drummond),
HOGUK (Captain Wilmot S. Nicholson), and
CRESSY (Captain Robert W. Johnson)
have been sunk by submarines in the North Sea.
The Aboukir was torpedoed, and whilst the Hogue and the Cressy
had closed and were standing by to save the crew, they were also
torpedoed,
Mrs. F. Harcourt Page writes :
"
THE TAMARISKS,"
EAST PRESTON, Oct. Wi, 1914.
I am able to state that the dream which my husband had of the
disaster to three British cruisers in the North Sea he related to me
i-.ni. <'**.
on the morning of Saturday, Sept. 19th. In fact, he awoke me
about 7 o'clock in the morning and told me he had had an extra-
ordinary dream, and there and then described it to me.
But being essentially an unbeliever in such things, and, further,
only half awake, I paid slight heed to what he said.
I do remember, however, his clearly saying that he had seen
three large British warships sunk in the North Sea by a German
stratagem, and that they had become a mass of flame before they
sank.
I also remember that he said that in his dream it had come to
him that he must write to the Admiralty and tell them, in order
that they might, by being forewarned, be forearmed.
Later in the morning I heard him still talking about his dream,
but that as for writing to the Admiralty he certainly shouldn't do
this, as they would not pay any attention to it.
HKI.KNK M. HAKCOUKT PAGE.
Mr. Frank Page writes :
Box RIDGE AVENUE,
PURLEY, Oct. 12th, 1914.
I have been away from home lately, but on my return have
found letters from my son, Mr. Harcourt Page, of
" The Tamarisks,"
East Preston, asking me to corroborate a dream he had in connec-
tion with the loss by submarine attack of three of our large
cruisers off the coast of Holland.
All I can say is this : I was staying with him at the time, and
one morning, two or three days before the disaster, he said to me,
" I've had a beastly dream about our ships." I said " Oh." He
then added, "I distinctly saw some of our big ships sunk by "-
torpedoes, I think he said, but I cannot be certain whether the
word was torpedoes or submarines. I have no faith in dreams, and
consequently showed no sympathy, and thus checked him from
saying more, which he was evidently going to do. Directly the
disaster happened he wrote home recalling what he had said, which
I, of course, remembered.
FRANK PAGE.
304 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. OCT. -Nov., 1914.
COMBINED INDEX TO THE PROCEEDINGS AND
JOURNAL.
Part II. of the Index has now been published. It covers
the Proceedings and Journal of the Society from the year 1901
(i.e. Proceedings, Vols. XVI. to XXVI. ; Journal, Vols. X. to
XV., inclusive), and completes, with Part I., the Combined Index
to all the volumes which have been issued up to the present
date since the foundation of the Society in 1882.
The Index, Parts I. and II., has been prepared by Miss
Christian Burke, and carefully revised by the editor.
Part II. (240 pp. in length) is published for the Society by
Messrs. R. MacLehose & Co., The University Press, Glasgow.
Both Parts (bound in cloth, each 7s. net) can be obtained
from Francis Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London,
"W. ;
James MacLehose & Sons, 61 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow;
and, in America, from the W. B. Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont
Street, Boston, Mass.
Members and Associates of the Society can obtain bound
copies of the Parts at the price of 2s. 6d. each, prepaid, on
application to the Secretary, S.P.R., 20 Hanover Square,
London, W., or, in America, to the W. B. Clarke Co., 26-28
Tremont Street, Boston, Mass. All remittances to the W. B.
Clarke Co. should be made either by cheque on Baltimore,
Boston, Philadelphia, or New York, or by Express or Post
Office Money Order ; otherwise, a collection charge of from
10 cents to 40 cents will be made.
ERRATUM.
In the Journal for July, 1914, p. 267, line 1, for
"
Ondereozk"
read "Onderzoek."
No. CCCXIV. VOL. XVI. DECEMBER, 1914.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
OONTBNT8.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, ... 305
Meeting of the Council, 305
Private Meeting for Members and Associates, - - 806
Case, 306
Psycho-Therapy and the War, ... -
310
Review : Professor Bergson's
"
Dreams," -
317
Notice,. 320
Vol. XVI. of the Journal, 320
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SMALL CAPITALS.
Ayrton, F. F. J., c/o Mrs. Stevens, 19 Sheffield Terrace, Kensington,
London, W.
Beilby, G. T., F.R.S., LL.D., 11 University Gardens, Glasgow.
Kingsford, Miss S. M., 5 Doneraile Street, Fulham, London, S.W.
Pyke, Mrs. Aubone, The Hermitage, Netley Abbey, Hants.
ANSTEY, CAPTAIN E. C., R.F.A., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing
Cross, London, S.W.
CARTER, LADY, Greycliffe, Torquay.
ELLIOTT, B. H., R.A. Mess, Aden, Arabia.
GLENCONNER, LADY, 34 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W.
LIBRARIAN, Public Library, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
M'KAY, MRS. ALEX., Mangonui N., Auckland, New Zealand.
SONGHURST, BERNARD, Departamento Almacenes, Ferro Carril Anto-
fagasta a Bolivia, Antofagasta, Chili.
WILSON, Mrs. F. E., c/o The Hon. W. Warren-Vernon, 105
Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
THE 130th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, November 20th, 1914, at
6 p.m.; THE PRESIDENT, DR. F. C. S. SCHILLER, in the chair.
306 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1914.
There were also present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, The Eight
Hon. G. W. Balfour, Sir William F. Barrett, The Kev. M. A.
Bay-field, The Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and
Dr. V. J Woolley ;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Eesearch Officer,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Four new Members and eight new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for July, August and September,
and October, 1914, were presented and taken as read.
PKIVATE MEETING FOE MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
THE 50th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, November 20th, 1914, at
4 p.m. ;
THE PRESIDENT, DR. F. C. S. SCHILLER, in the chair.
Miss H. DE G. VERRALL read a paper on "
Some Experi-
ments in Thought-Transference," which will, it is hoped, be
published later in the Proceedings.
CASE.
L. 1201. IMPRESSIONS.
THE following account of two apparently veridical impressions
concerning the war has been sent to us by Miss "
Ann Jones
"
(pseudonym). Other cases in which Miss Jones was concerned
have been published in the Journal, Vol. XV., pp. 337 ff., and
Vol. XVI., pp. 51 ff.
1
The names and addresses of all the persons whose corrobo-
ration is
given below are known to us, and the dates of the
two impressions are recorded in contemporary entries in Miss
Jones' diary.
Miss Jones described her impressions in conversation as
follows :
1. On Thursday, August 6, 1914, at about 8.30 p.m., she
1
There is a misprint in the report on this case. On p. 54, in the third
paragraph from the bottom, read July 21, 1912, for July 11, 1912.
DEC., un4. Case.
was sitting in her room, when she became conscious of a
feeling of great depression and fatigue, which finally became
so overpowering that, in spite of the fact that she was expect-
ing sevunil friends, she lay down on the sofa and sank into
a kind of swoon, a state between sleeping and waking, unlike
anything she had ever experienced before. Whilst in this
condition, which lasted till after 9 p.m., she had an im-
pression of a sinking ship. This impression she related to her
friends when they arrived. None of them had at that time
heard any news of a naval disaster. One of these friends
corroborates this statement as follows:
[Received September 25, 1914.]
I called on Miss [Jones] on August 6th at about nine o'clock.
She appeared to be very much exhausted or to be suffering from
shock, and said that she had slept in the afternoon and dreamed
of a sunk or sinking ship.
E. M. G.
Miss Jones' diary for August 6, 1914, contains the state-
ment :
Had a bad dream of a ship sunk.
In the morning papers of August 7, 1914, the following
announcement appeared, having been issued by the Admiralty
on the previous evening :
In the course of reconnoitring after the minelayer Konigin
Louise was sunk this morning, the Amphion struck a mine and
foundered. . . .
Paymaster Gedge and over a hundred men were
killed. The captain, 16 officers, and 135 men were saved.
From later accounts it appears that the Amphion sank at
about 7.30 a.m. on August 6.
2. On Saturday, September 5, 1914, Miss Jones returned
to her flat about lunch time, after calling on a friend. She
felt depressed and was unable to eat anything. At about
2.30 p.m. she lay down and again sank into a kind of swoon,
which lasted till 7 p.m. At about 5 p.m. she tried to rouse
herself to make some tea, but could not. During this time
she again had an impression of a sinking ship,
"
a disaster in
the North Sea." She mentioned to a friend, Miss H., whom
she saw at about 2 p.m., that she felt very tired, and she
308 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1914.
related her experience to another friend, Miss A., who dined
with her that evening.
To these same friends Miss Jones subsequently mentioned
the fact that on Sunday, September 6, 1914, at about 6 p.m.,
she had a strong impression that the allied forces had that
day achieved a distinct success.
The following corroborations of this statement have been
obtained :
(1) Miss Jones' diary has an entry on September 5, 1914:
Had a dreadful drowning sleep.
(2) Miss A. writes as follows :
September 11, 1914.
On Saturday, September 5, I went to dine at 7.30 with Miss
[Jones]. She told me she was feeling extremely exhausted, having
eaten nothing for some hours. She had lain for some hours in a
heavy sleep, out of which she was powerless to arouse herself. She
had a strong impression towards the end, or at least during this
species of trance, of the sinking of a ship. She felt sure we should
hear very bad news, and asked me to recollect the date and nature
of her experience.
On Sunday night Miss [Jones] wrote saying she felt much better,
and was sure we should hear good news shortly.
E. W. A.
The letter from Miss Jones to which Miss A. refers runs
as follows :
Sunday Evening.
... I think there'll be better news now. I had such a lightening
about six o'clock this evening.
(3) Miss H. writes as follows :
Sept. 8, 1914.
On Sunday evening (Sept. 6th) between six and seven o'clock
Miss [Jones] came to tell me that she felt certain the Allied Forces
had achieved success. She felt perfectly different, for on Saturday
afternoon (5th) she had been dreadfully depressed, and had a heavy
sleep.
H. H.
Two disasters at sea occurred on Saturday, September 5,
1914. The chief of these was announced by the Admiralty
on September 5 at 11.15 p.m., as follows:
DEC., 1914. Case. 309
H.M.S. Pathfinder, Captain Francis Martin Leake, struck a mine
to-day at 4.30 p.m., about twenty miles off the East Coast, and
foundered very rapidly. The loss of life has probably been heavy.
At 1.30 p.m. on Sunday, September 6, 1914, the Press
Bureau issued the following announcement :
The Admiralty announce that the Wilson liner Runo was sunk
by a mine at 4.35 p.m. yesterday, about twenty miles off the East
Coast. All the crew and passengers were saved except about twenty
Russian emigrants.
It will be seen that both these disasters occurred at about
the same time, 4.30 p.m.; that is to say after Miss Jones'
"
trance," or whatever it should be called, had begun, but
probably before or at about the time that she had an im-
pression of a sinking ship. In this connection it should be
noted that an earlier dream of Miss Jones', which is reported
in the Journal, Vol. XVI., pp. 51 ff., appears to be of a
premonitory character.
As regards Miss Jones' impression of some marked success
for the allied troops on Sunday, Sept. 6, 1914, the following
extract from Sir John French's despatch of Sept. 17, 1914,
is of interest :
On Saturday, Sept. 5, I met the French Commander-in-Chief at
his request, and he informed me of his intention to take the offen-
sive forthwith. . . . He requested me to effect a change of front
to my right. . . . These combined movements practically com-
menced on Sunday, September 6, at sunrise.
There was no mention in the news published on Sept. 6,
1914, of any advance on the part of the Allies. The official
reports from Paris published on that day say :
On our left wing the enemy appears to be neglecting Paris in
order to pursue ^an ^outflanking movement.
The enemy reached La Ferte'-sous-Jouarre, and passed Reims,
proceeding along to the^west of the Argonne Hills. . . .
And later :
The German army continues to deviate from Paris, and still
pursues the south-easterly movement which was commenced two
days ago.
According to reports which have been received, the enemy's
troops have evacuated the Compiegne-Senlis region.
310 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. c., 1914.
Miss Jones' impression therefore was correct, and went
beyond what she might be expected to infer from previously
published statements.
It is, however, of much less evidential value than the other
impressions, in proportion as it relates to much less definite
events.
Miss Jones has had two or three other impressions of events
connected with the war on land which seem to be more or less
correct, but for various reasons they cannot now be made
evidential, and therefore no report of them is given here.
As we pointed out in regard to a case which we published
in our last Journal, it is not unlikely at a time of public
anxiety such as the present that people should have impres-
sions of disaster. But two considerations lend a particular
interest to Miss Jones' case, and increase the probability that
there is something in it beyond chance-coincidence :
(a) Miss Jones has had two impressions of naval dis-
asters, and both correspond approximately in time to the
only two disasters which had befallen the British Fleet up to
September 5, 1914, the date of Miss Jones' second impression.
(5) These impressions derive a special significance from the
marked physical effect which they produced, an effect amount-
ing to temporary prostration. Miss Jones was in good normal
health at the time, and has had no similar experiences before.
PSYCHO-THEEAPY AND THE WAR
THE present moment seems suitable for drawing the attention
of the Society to two organizations which aim at alleviating
the mental strain and shock caused by the war. These are
(a) Lord Knutsford's scheme for a Hospital for Soldiers ;
and
(5) the Medico-Psychological Clinic, which was established a
few months ago at 30 Brunswick Square, London, W.C.
(a) Lord Knutsford's scheme is in progress, and will be, it
is hoped, shortly in operation. It is best described in the
following appeal, which was inserted in the Press by Lord
Knutsford on November 2nd, 1914:
There are a certain number of our gallant soldiers for whom no
proper provision is at present obtainable, but is sorely needed.
DEC., HIM.
Psyctio-Tkerapy and the War. :J1I
They are men suffering from very severe mental and nervous shock,
due to exposure, excessive strain, and tension. They can be cured
if
only they can receive proper attention from physicians who have
made a speciality of treating such conditions.
These men are quite unsuitable patients for general hospitals, as
their chance of recovery depends on absolute quiet, and on the indi-
vidual and prolonged attention of the physician. If not cured
these men will drift back to the world as wrecks, and miserable
wrecks, for the rest of their lives.
The physicians whose names, arranged alphabetically, I attach
have offered their services free to attend all these patients if a
quiet home in London can be provided and one in the country. The
scheme has received the sanction and support of the War Office.
I hesitate to launch yet another appeal, and I regret that I have
no time to get together an influential committee whose names
would be a lever to get the necessary money. But if the public
will trust me with .10,000 the scheme will be carried through,
and I will do my best to see that it is properly worked. The names
of the physicians willing to help and to form a committee of manage-
ment are a sufficient guarantee that the work will be well done.
I would not undertake this extra burden were I not convinced
that there is a pressing need for this special form of help for our
soldiers.
The first object is to get a large and quiet house in London
and then a convalescent home in the country. If more money is
sent than is needed any balance will be given to the Red Cross.
Money can be sent and offers of houses made to the Hon.
Secretary, Mr. C. R. Callard, c/o Messrs. Richardson, Sadlers &
Callard, 3 St. James's Street, S.W.
London Hospital, E., November 2.
The list of names attached by Lord Knutsford is as follows :
Dr. Stanley Bousfield, Dr. Milne Bramwell, Dr. Douglas Bryan,
Dr. F. W. A. Bryden, Dr. A. G. Buchanan, Dr. James Collier,
Dr. Maurice Craig, Dr. David Forayth, Dr. Bernhard Hart, Dr. T. B.
Hyslop, Dr. E. T. Jensen, Dr. Constance Long, Dr. J. Campbell
McClure, Dr. W. McDougall, Dr. Crichton Miller, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Dr. Heatly Spencer, Dr. Purves Stewart, Dr. Lloyd
Tuckey, Dr. Aldreii Turner, Dr. Hugh Wingfield, and Dr. Maurice
Wright.
When the scheme is in full operation and a review of the
312 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1914.
work done can be included, we hope to print an account
of it in the Journal. In the meantime, our members should
bear it in mind, with a view to referring suitable cases, later
on, to the organization, and to furthering the latter by sending
subscriptions to the Hon. Secretary, Mr. C. E. Callard.
(6) The Medico-Psychological Clinic is the first of its kind
to be opened in London, its only predecessor in Great Britain
being the Liverpool Clinic, which was founded by the Liverpool
branch of the Psycho-Medical Society in 1905. (See Jouriial,
Vol. XV., pp. 271-272, and Proc., Vol. XXVI., pp. 373-374.)
The objects of the London Clinic are, as set forth in the
prospectus, threefold :
1. The treatment by medical and psychological means of func-
tional nervous diseases and of functional disorders accompanying
organic diseases.
2. The advancement of this branch of Medical Science.
3. The extension in the community of a knowledge of the laws
of Mental Hygiene.
The hours of attendance are from 2 to 4 p.m. on Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, and the fees for consultations
and treatments are 2s. 6d. each.
The work of the Clinic is carried on in six departments, each
under the direction of a qualified medical practitioner having
special experience in the work of the department and ably assisted
by trained workers.
1. Medical. DR. HILDA CLARK. A thorough physical examination
is made of each patient (a) that unsuitable cases may be eliminated,
and (b) that any conditions requiring treatment by medicinal or
dietetic measures may be dealt with. (Except in the case of those
patients sent by medical practitioners who remain under treatment
by their own doctors).
2. Psychological. DR. JESSIE MURRAY and Miss J. TURNER. Each
patient undergoes a similar examination in the Psychological Depart-
ment. Memory, attention, suggestibility, etc., are tested, with a
view to finding the form of treatment best indicated.
Hypnosis. DR. AVELING.
3. Psycho-Therapeutic. DR. HECTOR MUNRO. Patients here receive
the particular forms of mental treatment which appear the best
adapted to their individual needs e.g. varying degrees and forms of
psychological analysis and re-synthesis, or suggestion, etc.
1914.
Psycho-Therapy aiul the H',//-. 313
4. /'////s/V/// E&TGUe*, I>K. .1. V. SWAM-.K.
5. Electrical. DK. A<,M-> S \vn.i..
'.. K.tii^fiunnl. I)K. .Il-ssiE MUKKAV and Ml>s .). TrilNER.
Lecture courses on Mentul Hygiene will be given from time to
time. These are primarily intended for patients, but some will
be open to nurses and others who desire to qualify themselves as
attendants to nervous cases of the character treated in the Clinic,
or whose work brings them in contact with the problems of mental
hygiene.
The members of the Medical and Psychological staff
(including Consultants) are :
Dr. W. E. Armstrong, Dr. F. Aveling, Mr. G.' W. Badgerow,
Mr. Stanley Boyd, Dr. W. Deane Butcher, Dr. E. Farquhar
Buzzard, Dr. Maud Chadburn, Dr. Hilda Clark, Dr. A. N. Leathern,
Dr. W. McDongall, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Dr. Hector Munro, Dr.
Jessie Murray, Dr. C. S. Myers, Mr. E. N. Plummer, Mr. Carveth
Read, Dr. Harrington Sainsbury, Dr. Agnes Savill, Professor C.
Spearman, Dr. W. H. B. Stoddart, Dr. J. V. Swanberg, and
Miss Julia Turner.
The following account of the work of the Clinic has been
kindly contributed by a member of the staff:
The cases that the Medico-Psychological Clinic aims at assisting
are cases of nervous and mental disorders, which are generally little
understood and often passed over or barely recognized by the general
practitioner. One reason for this inattention is that the patients
themselves often regard their complaints as something unusual or
even peculiar to themselves, and are accordingly very reticent about
the matter, being perfectly sure that if they mention their disability
they will be considered odd or abnormal. The complaint may be a
disturbance of the physical functions as, for instance, excessive
blushing or it may be, as in a larger number of cases, a mental
disorder. Among the latter are classed (a) phobias, e.g. unaccountable
fears which perhaps present themselves suddenly of seeing or
hearing of accidents, of going out alone, of passing high objects or
crossing open spaces ; (b) obsessions, e.<j. that evil or insanity will
befall, that friends have failed in affection, that misunderstanding
or even persecution is to be feared ; (c) impulsive actions, i.e. actions
which are performed more or less frequently under a sense of
obligation which is not to be put aside, as, for instance, constant
washing of the hands, and the placing of objects in any given order
314 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEc.,1914.
where the order is not of any intrinsic importance. Or the patient
who comes for relief may be the victim of an intolerable restlessness
only, or of an ungovernable irritability, or may suffer from intense
physical or mental exhaustion for which no adequate cause can be
detected.
The fear of being considered odd or unnatural is itself a painful
mental disability, and arises perhaps from the natural but quite
unreasonable fear of every aberration from normal mental health.
This fear is largely due to long-standing ignorance of the mind and
its laws, and, to some extent, to the superstition of attributing such
aberrations to supernatural causes. But it is reasonable to assume
that deviations from mental health are likely to be at least as
common as deviations from physical health ;
and as few persons
pass through life without experiencing physical illnesses, it is not
surprising that the mind suffers similar disabilities, seeing that
consciousness is the most delicate and susceptible part of our
organization.
Mental disorders are of various grades of severity, and arise from
various causes. All those due to organic disease are outside the
sphere of work of the Medico-Psychological Clinic, which is prepared
to treat only those which are of psychic origin. In the absence
of an In-patient Department which, it is hoped, will be added in
the future only those patients who are suitable for out-patient
treatment can be received at present.
The cause of the suffering of which our patients complain is
attributed by psychiatrists to emotional shock, or mental conflict in the
majority of cases. An illustration of the former is seen in the case
of a patient who became "mind blind" as a result of seeing a
young relative attempt suicide. More commonly, mental conflict or
prolonged mental strain, especially in early life, is at the bottom of
psychic disturbances, the conflict being due to the persistent presence
in the mind if not in consciousness of desires irreconcilable with
the general mental and moral outlook of the patient, or impossible
to realise in the particular conditions in which the patient finds
himself. Often he is entirely unaware of the presence of the
disquieting complex, as it may have originated too long ago to be
recalled to memory ;
but none the less it remains a disquieting
factor in his mental life.
The customary method of treating these patients is by alternate
scolding and exhortation. The unreasonableness of the fear, for
instance, is pointed out, and this, it is considered, should suffice
DEC., nut.
Psycho-Therapy an</ 1 1, It 315
for a re-habilitation. Unfortunately, however, the lesion lies in a
stratum where the reason is a stranger. No amount of reason will
break the spell, and this it is which in many cases constitutes the
most poignant suffering. In these circumstances, generally speaking,
only analysis followed by re-synthesis will help the patient to the
desired mastery of himself.
But as the process is a painful one, the whole-hearted co-
operation of the patient is practically a sine qua non for success.
Hence the reaction of the patient is a factor of first importance, as
in physical disease. For the psychasthenic or neurasthenic of long
standing to whom his ailments represent an interesting and im-
portant part of life, this treatment like every other may fail to
have a beneficial issue, though, if fairly tried, it will offer a
better hope than any other known means of cure.
In the case of some patients the injunction "to put the trouble
or worry out of the mind" has been only too literally complied
with, with a result startlingly different from that intended, for a
painful idea, or group of ideas, thus banished from the normal
consciousness may become a centre of disturbance in the sub-
consciousness, resulting in morbid mental or functional condi-
tions. Cases of deeply seated trouble require in their treatment a
great deal of time and infinite patience, both on the part of the
doctor and of the patient. The low level of the patient's physical
health retards the process of treatment in the mental sphere and
this in its turn re-acts detrimentally on the physical health.
Fortunately the treatment in many cases may be appreciably
shortened by useful adjuvants, as, for instance, massage, physical
exercises and electrical treatment, which improve the physical
health, while the mental treatment the more specially curative
part is in process. Hypnosis, too, can often reach these lower
levels with success, when simple analysis would prove unduly long,
if not impossible. Modern medical opinion is
greatly in favour
of using other methods in preference to hypnotism if possible, and
if hypnotism is employed the lighter degrees are always used first.
At the same time, it must be remembered that hypnotism is
a valuable ally in mental treatment, and that a great proportion
of the popular prejudice against it is quite unfounded and even
fantastic.
Happily not all cases present the extreme of difficulty. Patients
in whom the mental trouble is recent or easily traced derive much
assistance from suggestion and therapeutic conversation alone.
316 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1914.
It will be evident from what has been said that treatment by
mental means is in the majority of cases a very lengthy process and
that a great deal of skilled and patient labour is required. Hence
in private practice where the doctor personally carries out every
detail of the process the fees are necessarily very high. A full hour's
treatment from two to four times a week for many weeks is
necessary in the case of analysis or therapeutic psychology, and
few patients relatively can afford the one or two guineas which
represent the minimum that a doctor must necessarily charge per
treatment in private practice. Comparatively few patients therefore
have been able to avail themselves of this treatment up to the
present. The Medico-Psychological Clinic offers patients this form
of treatment at about one-tenth the ordinary cost. The Institution
does not cater for the ordinary hospital class, because a higher
average of intelligence and education is demanded than the majority
of such patients possess, but for patients of the middle classes to
whom the specialists' fees would be an insuperable obstacle.
One means for achieving the reduction of the expense of treat-
ment is the institution of courses of lectures on therapeutic
psychology at the Medico-Psychological Clinic. By their means
explanation is given in an impersonal manner of the processes of
the mind in health and disease accompanied by suggestions for the
application of these laws for practical guidance. Such teaching is a
means of shortening some of the later stages of treatment. Non-
patients who are interested, whether as social workers or from any
other reason, are invited to join these courses.
Sir Lawrence Jones, who is the Chairman of the Board of
Management, adds :
A new course of lectures will be given early next year, on Monday
afternoons, as well as a course, on Wednesday afternoons, by various
experts, on the History and Methods of Psychology as applied to
Medicine.
Though the Clinic opened its doors in October, 1914, its equip-
ment, especially in the Laboratory and Electrical Department, and
the Library, is still deficient.
It is hoped that this notice may gain it fresh support, and enable
it to extend its sphere of usefulness.
DEC., 1914. /froVir. ;;];
REVIEW,
Dreams. By HENRI BERGSON. Translated by KIAVIN E. SLOSSON.
T. Fisher Unwin, London, 1914. Pp. 62. Price 2s. 6d. net.
THIS is a translation in book form of a lecture delivered by
Professor Bergson before the Institut Psychologique in 1901.
It was at about this time or a little earlier that Professor
Freud's great work on the same subject appeared, and it is rather
a curious fact that both of these attempts to solve one of the
greatest puzzles in psychology should have attracted so little atten-
tion for many years. Both theories have certain common factors
though they also show important differences, and it will perhaps be
useful to show in what respects they differ from and resemble each
other, so that those who are interested in the subject investigated
may decide which is the more suited to their own experiences.
It may perhaps help to clear the ground to point out that neither
writer allows any place for those dream sources which we describe
as supernormal, at any rate with regard to the dreams of light
sleep. Professor Bergson, however, is willing to concede that in
the experiences of deep sleep it is conceivable that telepathy may
play some part, and it is agreeable to find that he is brought to
admit this by "the observations gathered by so rigorous a method
and with such indefatigable zeal by the Society for Psychical
Research."
This concession, however, hardly amounts to more than an
admission that further investigation may prove valuable and is
worth carrying on. We may therefore return to the dreams of
light sleep and his views as to their origin.
He believes, in the first place, that they arise from the mis-
interpretation by consciousness of the various bodily sensations
which are experienced during sleep. These range from the so-
oalled
" retinal light," or variously coloured surface seen when the
eyes are closed, to vague visceral sensations which the pressure
of the external world crowds out from the waking consciousness.
Thus he would account for the dreams which apparently foretell a
disorder of some particular organ, by the supposition that the brain
is already receiving from that organ painful sensations which are
not sufficient to affect waking consciousness. He supposes that the
common "flying dream" is due to the absence of pressure on the
soles of the feet, so that the body feels weightless.
318 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1914.
But it is evident that there are innumerable possible hallucina-
tions which could be fitted in to such a vague picture as the retinal
light affords. What decides the form the hallucination takes 1 In
the first place, it is based on a memory of a past experience. He
supposes that we retain unconsciously memories of our entire past.
In waking life only those memories reach consciousness which
succeed in establishing a link with our present surroundings. In
sleep we deliberately cut ourselves off from our surroundings (and
it is in this cutting off or "disinterestedness" that he believes
sleep to consist), and thus our store of memories all crowd to the
door which has been left ajar and strive to reach consciousness.
The ones that succeed will be the ones that can best be fitted to
the bodily sensations previously described. Among these, however,
there is still some further selection, which depends on the "peculiar
relaxation of the mind in the dream." This operates in such a way
that the memory image selected is the one which made the slightest
impression on the waking mind, the image of some object which we
have perceived almost without paying attention to it.
" The ego of
the dream is an ego that is relaxed; the memories which it gathers
most readily are the memories of relaxation, those which do not
bear the mark of effort."
The resemblances of this view to that of Freud are obvious.
Both derive the dream experiences from memories, and they include
under this head fantasies or past imaginations of what might have
been experienced. Both attribute a special importance to the casual,
as distinct from the important or worrying, experiences of the pre-
ceding day. Both would allow some share in the work to the
physical sensations actually experienced at the time of dreaming,
though in Bergson's view this share is much greater than in Freud's.
But their differences are more fundamental than their resemblances.
It is clear that any satisfactory theory of dreams ought to answer
the question of why we dream. It is this that does not seem
altogether clear in the work under review. It is not clear why all
these memories should take a hallucinatory form, why they should
be permitted to invade consciousness during sleep any more than
during waking life.
Unless we can suppose that they fulfil some definite purpose, they
would seem to be only disturbing and on the whole noxious. It
is of course well known that Freud believes that each dream is the
disguised fulfilment of some impulse of which the hallucinatory
gratification may preserve sleep from disturbance.
I'" Review. 319
Another quality of dreams which has to be explained is the high
degree of emotion with which sonic dreams are experienced. it
they depended wholly on indifferent memories, it is hard to under-
stand why, for instance, the dreamer should wake up cryirn
can only be supposed here that the indifferent experience has
roused some buried and painful memory which is really responsible
for the dream.
The great difference therefore between these two theories can be
expressed by saying that Professor Bergson considers the dream
to depend upon the memories which have excited least conscious
attention, because such memories accord best with the relaxed or
"disinterested" state of the dreaming mind, while Freud believes that
the dream is the gratification of some impulse, which is probably
repressed in waking life, but which is able to obtain a hallucinatory
carrying into effect during sleep because it has been able during
the preceding day to establish some link with a waking experience.
He would further say that the reason why this waking experience
attracted apparently so little conscious attention was, probably, this
very linking up with the repressed impulse, which itself was repugnant
to consciousness and was not allowed to reach it.
With respect to the question of the actual physical sensations
of the sleeper as a source of dream, it is a matter of universal
knowledge that they do form some part of the dream-material.
My own experience causes me to distrust somewhat the supposed
source of the flying dream in the absence of pressure on the feet,
because the only form of this dream that I can remember having
experienced consisted in the ability to make enormous soaring jumps,
returning slowly to the ground after each, and it seems unlikely
that this would be produced by this cause. Probably, too, most
people have dreamed of holding .some object in their hand, and
discovered on waking that the hand was empty, although the
sensation of holding the object was extremely vivid and persistent.
In this case, too, there seems no local physical cause for the
hallucination experienced.
This summary may perhaps be sufficient to enable our readers to
discover which if either of these two theories accords best with
their own experiences. In the nature of things proof is impossible,
and the matter must remain one of opinion.
In his translator, Bergson has in our opinion fared very much
better than Freud, possibly because his style is easier to render into
English. The only sentence which is open to objection is the state-
320 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. DEC., 1914.
ment that "the events which reappear in the dream are those of
which we have thought most distractedly." To many people this
would at first sight convey exactly the opposite of what is intended.
V. J. WOOLLEY.
NOTICE.
IT is well known that a large number of people arrived at the
opinion that a body of Eussian troops passed through this
country at about the end of last August. The rapid spread
of this information through the country is a matter of con-
siderable psychological interest and the Society would be glad
to investigate the causes which led to it.
Any of our Members or Associates who received first-hand
information from people who believed that they saw or heard
these troops are requested kindly to report the statements
made to them, and if possible to get a written first-hand
account.
Our informants will understand, of course, that their com-
munications will be regarded as confidential, unless we receive
permission to make use of them.
VOLUME XVI. OF THE JOURNAL.
THIS number of the Journal completes Vol. XVI. The Title
Page and Index will, it is hoped, be circulated with the
February, 1915, number of the Journal, and covers for binding
Vol. XVI. (price Is. each), as well as bound copies of the
volume (price 7s. 6d. each), will then be ready, and may be
obtained on application to the Secretary.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XVI.
*9I 3 I9I4
Aboukir, Hogue and Creasy, Premonition coinciding with disaster to - 301
Accounts of Income and Expenditure of the Society
(1912) 28
(1913) 200
See also Endowment Fund.
American Society for Psychical Research, Journal of, Case recorded in -
87
Animals, "Thinking." See The "Thinking" Horses of Elberfeld
and the
"
Thinking
"
Dog of Mannheim.
Annual General Meetings of the Society
(1913) 18
(1914) 194
Anonymously contributed Cases - - - 34-40
Aphasia, Prof. H. Bergson on - 84
Archives de Psychologic, Notes on 112, 159, 192, 244, 270
Arriola, Pepito. See Gower, Dr. J. H.
Artault, Dr. S., on Stigmata and Mimicry 112
Askew, Mr. and Mrs. Claude, A Telepathic Impression of the
"
Vol-
turno
"
Disaster -
163, 177-184, 190, 203
Auto-Suggested Visions and Dream-Formations 163, 202-203
Automatic Messages (Drawing, Writing, etc.) 3, 22, 199, 210-216
See also The Drawings of Frieda Gentes.
iv Index to Vol. XVI.
Automatic Writings
See Cross-Correspondences, and the Scripts of Mrs. and Miss
Verrall.
Automatism, Musical Prodigies and - -
56, 60, 61
Automatisms, A Monties Record of, by Mrs. A. W. Verrall, reference to 21
B.
B., W. F. Obituary Notice of the Rev. J. W. Barlow 175
Baggally, W. W., Report on Experiments with
"
Amy Joyce
" -
168
Bailey, C., Alleged Mediumship of, references to 7, 10, 16
Balfour, The Rt. Hon. A. J., On Professor Bergson's Presidential
Address 86
Balfour, The Rt. Hon. G. W., Case coUected by 152
Telepathy and Metaphysics, On 111-112, 202
Barlow, Miss Jane, Review of The Purpose of Education, by St. G. L.
Fox Pitt 250
Adventurings in the Psychical, by H.
Addington Bruce - 253
Barlow, Rev. J. W., Obituary Notice of 175
Barrett, Sir W. F.
Dowsing, The Psychical versus the Physical Theory of 43
Swedenborg : The Savant and the Seer, by, Notice of - 32
(and the Rev. Savell Hicks), Ouija-Board, Some recent experi-
ments with the -
3, 79
See also B., W. F.
"
Baumgarten, J. F.," Case confirmed by - -
73-74
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., Relief of pain by Non-Hypnotic Suggestion,
Reference to Cases of - 23
Bergson, Professor Henri
Dreams, by, Review of 317
Election as President (1913) 19
Philosophy of 143, 146-148, 317
Presidential Address -
83, 198, 203
Notices concerning
- -
64, 66
Berlamottes, Louis. See Ramsavi, C. v.
Biarritz, Alleged exposure of D. D. Home at, Reference to 25
Birmingham, Meeting of the British Association at (1913), Presidential
Address by Sir Oliver Lodge 132, 176, 198
Blavatsky, Madame, Reference to exposure of - 10
Bolton, Capt. C. J. and Mrs., Case contributed by - 3
Bonjour, Dr., on Miraculous Healings 160
Bourne, Ansel, Case of, References to - -
87, 95, 96
Brewin, Charles P., A Case of Secondary Personality
- 87
British Association, Sir O. Lodge's Presidential Address to (1913) 132, 176, 198
British Naval Disasters, Impressions coinciding with -
301, 306-309
Browning, Pseudo-Script references to - 39
Index to Vol. A' VI
Bruce, H. Addington, Adventuring* in the Ptychical, by. Review of - 253
Buchanan, Dr., On the case of Charles P. Brewin - -
88-02
Bulletin de Vlnstitut Gtnfral Psychologique, Note on some dowsing
experiments reported in the - .... 254
Bulley, Mrs. A. K., Case collected l.\ 149
Bullough, E., and Dr. V. ,T.
Woolley, On the "Thinking
"
Hones of
Elberfeld - -
98-102,202,203
Burke's Speech on the Revolution in France, and the Pseudo-Script
Experiments -
Burnand, Dr., Case recorded by 160
C.
C., Marie, Confirmation of Case .... i .-,.-,
C., Melanie, Confirmation of Case ... 155
Calculating Prodigies, reference to -
192, 272
Carlyle, Pseudo-Script quotations from -
40
Carr, H. Wildon, D.Litt., Translation of Prof. Henri Bergson's
Presidential Address -
198
Cases
"G."- l.-.J
"
L." -
3, 41, 76, 114, 118, 149, 203, 205, 306
"
P." -
29, 51, 68, 297, 301
Chance-Coincidence, Element of, in Cross-Correspondences : A
further experiment -
21-22,34-41
On Telepathy and -
10-14
Child-Percipients 43-44, 45, 103, 164, 168
Chromidrosis, as a suggested explanation in a case of supposed stig-
matism 233-235
Clairvoyance, Hypnotic, Reference to early experiments in 16
Claparede, Professor, On the so-called "thinking
"
animals 192, 247, 255, 27 1
Cobacker, Blanche. See Gower, Dr. J. H.
Combined Index to Proceedings and Journal, Part II., Publication of 272, 3O4
Constable, F. C., Note on a Case
Personal Survival : the form of Evidence
Professor Bergson and Mind -
146
Psychical Researchers and the Will to Disbelieve t
Continuity, Sir Oliver Lodge's Presidential Address to the Bnti>h
Association (1913) 11:2.176
Correspondence
Council and Officers, Elections on 19, 20, 50. !'.:.
Meetings 2, 19, 50, 67, 82, 98, 131, 162, 195, 243, 258,
305
Reports for the years 1912, 1913 - 19, 20, 195, 196
Crawford and Balcarres, Earl of, Obituary Notice of - - 50, 64. 199
Crookes, Sir W., Election as President of the Royal Society, reference
to 198
vi Index to Vol. XVI.
Crookes, Sir W., Researches of, reference to -
134
Cross-Correspondences
Chance, Element of, in : A further experiment 34-41
Phenomena of, On the 51, 132, 156-159, 253
Cruse, Miss 0. M., Case contributed by 114
D.
D., Mrs. K., Case confirmed by - -
54
Davey, Murray, Thought Transference Experiments with
"
Amy
Joyce" 169-173
Davies, Miss E., Confirmation of Case -
151
Demole, Dr. V., Un Gas de Conviction Spontantfe, by -
159
Diamandi, Mile. Urania, Calculating powers of -
192
Dobbie, A. W., Obituary Notice of 16
Dowsers (Names of Amateurs in Italics)
Boer boy - 43-44
Billow-Bothkamp, Herr v. - 46
Fenley,G.
- 45
Landesque, M. - 254
Turner, Miss F. M. 47
Young, J. F. 45
Dowsing, On 43-48, 254-255
Experiments in -
45, 46, 47, 254
Localities, Kiel, 46; Munich, 46; Paarl (S. Africa), 43;
Pershore, 47 ; Tunisia, 254 ; West Texas, 45.
Psychical versus the Physical Theory of - 43
Sensations felt by Dowsers 43, 44
Supernormal Perceptive Faculty, Indications of -
43-48
See also Barrett, Sir W. F.
Drawing and Painting, Automatic. See Frieda Gentes.
Dream-formation, Dr. V. J. Woolley on - - 163
Dream-imagination connecting psychical experiences, F. C. Constable
on - -
78, 79
Dreams, by Henri Bergson, Review of - - 317
Dreams, Phenomena of
Bergson's Theory of - 317-320
Flying 317, 319
Freud's Theory of 317-319
Recurrent 68, 71, 73, 74, 127
Dublin Local Section of the Society for Psychical Research - - 79
Experiments carried out by -
3, 22, 79
Report of (1912) 79
Dunant, Dr., Case related by - 160
Dunn, Mrs., Evidence contributed by
- - 87-88
du Toit, Professor P. J., On a case of Dowsing 43-44
Dymond, Mrs., Case confirmed by 190-191
. to Vol. XVI.
i:.
Elberfeld, On the so-called
"
thinking hone* "
of
24-25, 98-102, 192, 202, 244, 271-272
Elia, Essays of, and IJu-kin, !'> -mln S.ript references to ; !
Kniants, Marcellus, On the
"
Trumpet Medium," Mrs. S. Harris 270
Emotional Epilepsy, A Case of -
112
Endowment Fund for Psychical Research, Account* of -
20, 27, 28, 201
Erratum 304
r.
F., Mr., Case collected by -
152
F., L., Case confirmed by -
55
Faith Healing. See Spiritual Healing.
Faraday, Reference to 134
F< ilding, Hon. Everard (and Miss Alice Johnson), Report on some
Experiments in Thought-Transference 164
Sittings with Miss S. Tomczyk 2 I
Fever Visions and Auditions, J. Arthur Hill on - -
235
Flournoy, Prof., Cases recorded by 1 12. 160
Foot, Dr., On a Case of chromidrosis 233
Franzius, Privy-Councillor, On Dowsing, reference to 46
Freimark, H., On the Phenomena of Frieda Gentes - 211 (foot-note)
Fremery, H. N. de, Account of sittings with Mrs. S. Harris - -^
Freud, Professor S., Dreams, theory of, contrasted with Prof. Bergson's 317-320
Psychology of, on the -
248-250. 27 1
Future Life, American Questionnaire on Human Sentiment with regard
to a, reference to 128
See also Survival.
G.
Garner, J. N., Case contributed by - *."
Gentes, Frieda, The Phenomena of, Dr. Einil Mattiesen on 210-223
Gibbons, Miss Beryl, Case confirmed by - 184
Gower, Dr. J. H., Account of two Musical Prodigies
Arriola, Pepito
-
60-61, 63
Cobacker, Blanche 61-63
Gurney, Edmund, Hypnotic researches of, reference to
H.
Hall, Dr. A. J., On the effect of aniline dye on the Skin
Hallucinations, Subjective, 1 14. 111'. 127. 178-192, 2.
Recurrent
during illness -
viii Index to Vol. XVI.
Hallucinations, Visceral, and psychical, Difference between, reference
to 239-240
Harri , Mrs. 8., The "
Trumpet-Medium
" - - 266
"
Hartman i, Miss M. M.," Case contributed by - 149
Harvard University, Foundation of a Memorial to Dr. Richard
Hodgson at -
25, 28
Haunts
Apparitions, Lights (etc.) connected with 152, 279, 280-282, 283, 289
Sounds -
277-297
Touches 282, 290
Haynes, E. S. P., The Beliefin Personal Immortality, by, Review of - 126
Head.- Dr. H., On visceral hallucinations, reference to 239-240
Hibbert Journal, Reference to an article in 111
Hicks, Rev. E. Savell, and Sir W. F. Barrett, Recent Experiments
with the Ouija-Board 3, 79
Hill, J. Arthur, Case collected by 29
Fever Visions and Auditions 235
,, Note on the Experiments with
"
Amy Joyce
" -
173-175
Hodgson, Dr. R., Memorial to, at Harvard University
- -
25, 28
Hoernle, Professor R. F., Case contributed by - - 43-44
Holzmeier, Mrs., Case confirmed by - 124
Home, D. D., Reference to 64
Alleged Exposure at Biarritz 25
Horses. See
"
Thinking
"
Horses.
Hume, D., Philosophy of, reference to - 147
Hypnotism (Miscellaneous) 16, 23, 112, 157, 203, 315
Anaesthesia - ... 16
Clairvoyant, telepathic
- ... 16
Epilepsy, A case of emotional, experiments in - 112
Post-Hypnotic Suggestion 16
Therapeutic Aspects of 16, 23, 315
Psycho-therapy and - - 315
Hyslop, Professor J. H., On the case of C. P. Brewin 95, 96
Hysteria and Muscular Contraction, Case of 271
I.
I., M. E., On the Haunting of House - - 290
Index, Combined, to the Proceedings and Journal, Publication of
Part II. 272, 304
J.
Jenkyns, Mrs., Case contributed by 297
Jenkyns, The Misses D. M., Rose, and Edith, Case confirmed by 299-300
Johnson, Dr., Pseudo-Script references to - 40
Index to I'-/. XVL ix
Mi Ali. ,-
Case collected In 71 7.,
iKulenceH in PMMI-; tc on, refer-
ence to
Croes-Correepondeii'. <>i, 51,109
(and the Hon. Everard Feilding) Report on Some
Experiments in Thought Transference - 164
"
Jones, Mis> A.m." Cases contributed I
14, 51, 78, 306
Constable, F. C., On a case contributed by 78
Jones, Miss E., Confirmation of case - .'<^
Jones, Sir Lawrence, On the London .M <li
u-Psychological Clinic - 316
Jong, Dr. K. H. E., The "
Trumpet-Mediuin . Harris i!ii
Journal of Abnormal Psychology, Review of Article in :! I %
Journal ofthe American Societyfor Psychical Research, Case recorded in 87
"Joyce, Amy," Thought-Transference Experiments with 102, 164, 168, 17.:
Fraud, indications of 164-167, 168
Telepathy, indications of I" : 1 11. 167, 168-17:;. 174 17:.
K.
K., Dr. C., Evidence contributed by, in a supposed case of
stigmatism 230, 231, 23::.
Kampfer, Mr., On the phenomena of Frieda Gentes -
213. JI7
Kant, Philosophy of, reference to 147, 148
Kaposi, Diseases of the Skin, reference to -
:!:;:;
Kay, H. A., Legacy to the Society, reference to _'<
Kitchener, F. E., Case collected by 203
Knutsford, Lord, Scheme for a Hospital for Soldiers - 310
Korf, Georg, On the Phenomena of Frieda Genti-< 216 .' 1 7
Korngold, Eric, A Musical Prodigy 56-60, 64
Krall, Herr, Experiments with the
"
Thinking Horses
"
of Elberfeld
24-25, 99-100, 101, 102, 20i\ _'7 1
Lamb, Charles, Pseudo-Script references to Essays of 38-39
Lankester, Sir Ray, On the attitude of, towards psychical research 6-7, i. 1 -. 1 ::
Lawson, Miss Mary, Case confirmed by
Lelesz, H., On the value of testimony
Levitation. See Telekinesis.
Library of the Society
Supplementary Catalogue
Liverpool, Hypnotic Clinic at, reference t
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Case reported to 4 1
Presidential Address to the British Association 132, 176, 198
Report on Experimental Telepathy with
"
Amy
Joyce" --.- 102
x Index to Vol. XVI.
London Medico-Psychological Clinic, Opening of 310, 312-316
"
Long, Mr. and Mrs.," On the Haunting of House
275, 277-285, 287, 293-97
Lowles, T. J., Case confirmed by - 300
Luminous Appearances connected with Psychical Phenomena -
180, 191
Lund, Percy, Experiments in thought-transference with
"
Amy
Joyce
"
103, 173-174
Lutteri, Mrs., Case confirmed by 123
M.
M., W., Case confirmed by 54
MacKenzie, Dr. W., On the
i;
Thinking
"
Dog of Mannheim 244
Maeterlinck, Maurice, Life after Death, an article by, Review of -
155
On the Elberfeld horses -
271-272
Manchester Guardian, Case recorded in -
56
Mannheim. See
"
Thinking
"
Animals.
Marage, Dr., Report on experiments in Dowsing 254
"
Marbot, Madame," Case contributed by 152
Marie, Dr. Pierre, reference to - 84
"
Matheson, Miss N.," Case contributed by 68
Matter, The Electrical Theory of, Sir O. Lodge on 136
,, Mind and, On the Interaction of - 140-144
Mattiesen, Dr. Emil, A Case of Telepathic Hallucination, by - - 118
The Phenomena of Frieda Gentes 210
Medical Section of the Society for Psychical Research, publication
of first Medical Part of Proceedings 23
Medico-Psychological Clinic, London -
310, 312-316
Meetings of the Society
Annual General 18, 194
General 196, 244, 258
Private for Members and Associates only
2, 51, 67, 82, 98, 132, 163, 244, 306
Meier, Dr. A., On the Phenomena of Frieda Gentes - - - - 211
Members and Associates, Honorary, Corresponding and Ordinary
Lists of 2, 18, 50, 66, 82, 97, 130, 162, 194, 242, 257, 305
Memory and Matter, Professor H. Bergson on - - - -
84-86, 146
Mental Healing. See Psycho-therapy and Spiritual Healing.
Moekel, Frau, On the
"
thinking
"
dog of Mannheim -
244, 255
Monition, Telepathic 119-120
Musical Prodigies and Automatism - - -
56, 60, 61, 256
Myers, F. W. H., Human Personality, reference to - - 249
N.
Neue Rundsctiau, Notice of - - 271
Newspaper Fabrications of Psychical Phenomena - 24
/,,<!*x to Vol. AT/ x .
Newton, Miss I., Note on the Weston Vicarage PolUsrgewt ^<
Notes on Current Periodical* -
1 1 1 , 150. 192, 244, 248, 2-
Obituary Notices-
Barlow, Rev. J. W. 175
Crawford and Balcarres, Earl of - -
50, (M, 199
Dobbie, A. W. -
16
Wallace, A. Russel I \:
t , 199
Ochorowicz, Dr., Sittings with Miss S, Tomczyk, reference to 24
Orchard, Miss G., Cose confirmed by -
ji >; _< is
Orchard, Laurence, Case contributed by - -
205
Ouija Board. See Automatic
P.
Page, F. Harcourt, Case contributed by - ... 301
Page, Mrs. F. Harcourt, Case confirmed by 302-303
Page, Frank, Case confirmed by ... 303
"
Parker, Rev. T.," Case contributed by -
203
Partos, Dr. E., Note on the
"
Sero-diagnostic
"
theory of diseases,
reference to - - -
J71
Peake, Mrs., Case collected by -
114
Penton, Mrs., Case confirmed by 190, 192
Pepito Arriola, A Musical Prodigy -
c,<i. ;i
Personality, Problems of -
88-96, 156, 158-159
Memory, Conditions of - -
,ss-!H5
Secondary, A Case of (C. P. Brewin) 87
., Complete Loss of the Secondary Memory "1 :;
Mental and Moral Characteristics of 91,'
Theory of a slowly disintegrating, M. Maeterlinck on -
156
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count, Enquiry into the alleged exposure
of D. D. Home, reference to
Perry, Sir Edwin Cooper, M.D., On a case of supposed stigmatism 258-262
Perry, W. E., Case contributed by 41
Pfungst, Dr., Investigation of
"
Clever Hans," reference to - 99. 1<1
Phantasms of the Living, References to cases in -11.1:?
"
Pickens, Professor." See
"
Yoga Rama."
Piddington, J. G., on the difference between Psychical and Visceral
Hallucinations, reference to
Pitt, St. G. Lane Fox, The Purpose of Education, by, Review of ?:*
Poltergeist Phenomena, Note on a reported Case at Weeton Vicarage
- 79
Powell, Sir R. Douglas, a Note on Suggestion, reference to - _''
Precognition, A case of -IT
Premonitions
Dreams -
51, 68, 78, 297, 301
Impressions -'
xii Index to Vol. XVI.
Presidential Addresses (1882-1911), Publication of 25
Bergson, Professor H. 64, 66, 83
Schiller, Dr. F. C. S. -
258
Presidents of the Society, Election of
Bergson, Professor H. (1913) 19
Schiller, Dr. F. C. S. (1914) 195
Price-Heywood, W. P., On the musical prodigy, Eric Korngold - -
56-60
Probabilities, Calculus of, in Psychical Research 10-14, 21-22, 36-37, 172, 310
Pseudo-Scripts, Experiments in, by Miss H. de G. Verrall - -
21, 34
Element of Chance Coincidence in - - 21-22
Telepathy, simulated in - 34-41
Psychical Researchers and the Will to Disbelieve, F. C. Constable on 6
Psycho-Analysis and Psychical Research, L. T. Troland on -
248
Psycho-Therapy 23, 160, 263-266, 310
"
Faith
"
healing,
"
Mind "
healing, and - 266
London Medico-Psychological Clinic, Scope and
work of - -
310, 312-316
,. Suggestion without Hypnotism, increased use of -
315
and the War - - 310
Lord Knutsford's Hospital for Soldiers 310-312
,, ,, Medico-Psychological Clinic. See above.
Psychology, Professor H. Bergson on 83-86
R.
R., Abbe, Case confirmed by 155
"
Ramsavi, C. v.," Trance Personality of Frieda Gentes -
215, 217
Reviews and Notices 32, 126, 155, 248, 250, 253, 317
See also Notes on Current Periodicals.
Revue de Psychotherapie, Cases recorded in 112, 160, 256
Richet, Professor C., On Pepito Arriola, reference to 60
Rochas, Colonel de, Experiments to prove the transmigration of souls,
reference to 157
"
Rooke, Mr. and Mrs. A.," Case contributed by 77
"
Rooke, Mrs.," Case collected by 76
Rossetti, Dante and Verona, Script references to - 14-15
Ruskin and the Essays of Elia, Pseudo-Script references to - 39-41
Russell, Bertrand, On the Nature of Science, reference to - - 133
Russian Troops, Alleged recent passage of, through England - -
320
S.
S., F. C. S., Notes on current Periodicals and Reviews, by
111-112, 159-160, 192, 255-256, 270-272
S., Miss, Evidence contributed - ... 289
St. Augustine, Confessions of, Pseudo-Script quotation from - -
38, 39
Samulon, A., Evidence contributed ... - - 222
Index to Vol. XVI. xiii
Savill, Dr. Agnes, on Chromidrosis L'.'ti
Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc., The Belief in Personal Immortal S. P.
Haynes, Review of 128
On the Ho-called
tl
Thinking
"
Animals .'it. .'
Crifi.-i-.,, ..I the methods of investigation of 246-248
See also S., F. C. a
Schol/, Mr. ...,. I M.>. H., Case confirmed by -210,221.222
Science, The nature and scope of, Sir Oliver Lodge on :. l.'JT. 138, 139
Scepticism, The fundamental, of - I ;_' 136, 137-138
Scott, Miss J., See
"
Volturno
"
Disaster, A Telepathic Impression of.
Segueira, Dr., Diseases of the Shin, reference to - -' .'{
''
Self-Suggestion, Experiments in, reference to -''*
See also Stigmatism.
Seybert, Henry, Bequest to found a Chair of Philosophy at Penn-
sylvania University, reference to 28 (footnote)
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
Cases collected by 4, 203
Cross-Correspondences, On Dr. Maxwell's Criticism of, reference to 28
Slade, Henry, Alleged Mediumship of, reference to - -
7-8, 10
Slosson, E. E., Translation of Dreams, by Henri Bergson -
Smith, H. Arthur, Case collected by - i'< '
'
Society for Psychical Research
Additional Office Room 163, 197
Combined Index to Proceedings and Journal, Part II
Constable, F. C., on the Work of 6-14
Donations and Legacies to 20
Dublin Local Section, Report for 1912 79
Endowment Fund
Growth and Work of - -
21-28, 196-203
Harvard University, Foundation of a Memorial to Richard
Hodgson
Income and Expenditure (1912, 1913)
Medical Section
Presidential Addresses (1882-1911), Publication of
Reports for the years 1912 and 1913 -
Sommer, Mrs., Case confirmed by - I- 1
Spirit Identity, Form of Evidence, F. C. Constable on the - 1 ~>7
Spiritual Healing, Report of a Clerical and Medical Committee of
Inquiry into Spiritual, Faith, and Mental Healing, A Summary - _v>::
Spiritualism, Alleged Physical Phenomena of, reference to
7 S, In. :M 178-192,266-270
Stammer, Mrs., Case confirmed by
Stigmata and Mimicry, A suggested parallelism between, referent
Stigmatism, A Case of supposed
Aniline Dye and 25M6I
Auto-Suggestion and
Stratton, F. J. M., On the Haunting of House -
xiv Index to Vol. XVI.
Stumf, Professor, Investigation of
"
Clever Hans," reference to 99
Suggestion without Hypnotism, Psycho-therapy and -
23, 315
Survival after Bodily Death, Question of
Constable, F. C., on 157
Haynes, E. S. P., on 126
Lodge, Sir Oliver, on 144
Maeterlinck, M., on -
155-157
Schiller, F. C. S., on 128
Swedenborg : The Savant and the Seer, by Sir W. F. Barrett -
32
T.
T., M., Evidence contributed - 292
Telekinesis, Alleged Phenomena of
Levitations of Objects - 24
Telepathy and Metaphysics, Balfour, Rt. Hon. G. W., on - -
111-112, 202
Bergson, Prof. Henri, on 83-86
Constable, F. C., on 6-14
and the Pseudo-Scripts
- 34
Telepathy, Experimental 22, 102, 164, 168, 173, 199
Conditions desirable - 199
Experiments with
"
Amy Joyce
" -
102, 164, 168, 173
Baggally, W. W. - 168
Feilding, Hon. Everard, and Miss A. Johnson 164
Lodge, Sir O. -
102, 167, 168, 173-175
Telepathy, Spontaneous
Dreams 11,41,76,127
Hallucinations -
3, 12, 118, 205
Impressions 159, 163, 178, 203, 306
Visions 118-120, 126, 149
Testimony, The value of - 270
"
Thinking
"
Animals, Experiments with
Dog (Mannheim) -
244,255-256,271
Horses (Elberfeld)
-
24-25, 98-102, 246-248, 255-256, 271
Thomson, Sir J. J., Researches of, reference to 134
Tomczyk, Miss Stanislawa, Sittings with - 24
Trance Personality of Frieda Gentes (C. v. Ramsavi) 215, 217
Trance Phenomena of Frieda Gentes - 210
Condition during -211-214,218
Drawing 210-216
,, Precognition, indications of - 217-223
,, ,, Supernormal Faculty, indications of -
215, 216
Telepathy, indications of 216, 217
Troland, L. T., The Freudian Psychology and Psychical Research, by - 248
Tuckett, Ivor LI., M.D., Psychical Researchers and the Will to
Believe 6 (footnote)
Indtx t.. 17 JLT
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., Treatment by Hypnotism and 8*ggt
reference to ';
Turner, Miss F. M., A Dowsing I
Tweedale, Rev. C., On the Weuton Vicarage PoHergefet
-
\
V., H. de G., The Case of C. P. Brewin 87
Notes on Current Periodicals - >l
Review of Life after Death, by If. Maeterlinck 156
Van Eeden, Dr. F., A Study of Dream*. 67, 202
Verrall, Miss H. de G.
Experiments to test the element of chance in Cross <
spondences 21.
Johnson, Miss A., on
Some Further Cross-Correspondences between Script*
-
The Scripts of, reference to 141
See also V., H. d(
Verrall, Mrs., A Month's Record of A terence to -1
The scripts of, Reference to II
"
Volturno
"
Disaster, A Telepathic Impression of 163, 177, 203
Von Osten, Herr, Reference to -96, '.''.'
W.
W., Miss M., Case confirmed l,y
-
204
W., V., Evidence contributed by i
W., V. J., Notes on Current Period!. -uU 160, 256
"
Walker, Mr. and Mrs. B.," Case contributed l,y
Wallace, Alfred Russel, O.M., F.R.S.. Ol.it nary notice of - 1 l.~>. 199
War, The (1914), Impressions apparent! ng -
301, 306
Lord Knutsford's Scheme for a Psyi-hM-thera|xMitic
Hospital for SnUli, i> 310
Russian Troops, Enquiry into the alleged passage
through England of '!-"
Watson, Miss Mildred, Evidence contrilmtrd l.\ 187, 190
Webb, Elizabeth, Case confirmed by 4
Weingartner, Mr., Evidence as to the Phenomena of Frieda Gentes, 21
Weston Vicarage Disturbances, Note on (
orresjK.iulence concerning,
in the Yorkshire Obserwr -
7940
Whybrow, Sarah, Case confirmed l\ *
Wilh'ams, J. A. A., Case contributed by - - '
Woolley, V. J., M.D., Auto-Suggested Visions and Dream- Formations
163, 202-203
..
l>yi-> in St. -kini;s. On, in a case of supposed
Stigmatism -"1
Psycho-AnalVM. A. n Psychical Research, l-y L'IS
xvi Index to Vol. XVI.
Woolley, V. J., M.D., Review of Dreams by Henri Bergson 317
(and E. Bullough), Horses of Elberfeld, The, 98, 100, 202
See also W., V. J.
Wriedt, Mrs., reference to sitting with 24
Y.
"
Yoga Rama," Trick Methods of, reference to - 22
Yorkshire Observer, On the Weston Vicarage disturbances - - - 79-80
Z.
Zahoris, Alleged Supernormal Faculty of 45
"
Zeno, Professor Carl," Trick Methods of, reference to - 22
Zingelmann, Mr., Case confirmed by 121
Zohrer, J., Case contributed by 118
