{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1zachary_j_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Zachary J NDE-Like 2124","mylang":"de"}
          	        Zachary J NDE-Like 2124  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Zachary J NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						561  Zachary J NDE-Like  2124  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I was hit by the car; headlights blinded me as it felt like someone shoved me into the street.

A bird fluttered by, catching my attention. A gray-blue, translucent Raven. I stared at it for a moment, realizing I was floating. I saw to one side of me a great hole, which seemed to absorb all light, a space of pure nothing, and opposite it a hole of pure light, I was between the two. The Raven circled, letting out an unworldly cry, and flew lower. I saw - things. They're hard to describe. It's like catching a glimpse of a monster out of the corner of your eye, and turning to see there's nothing there - seeing someone other than you in the mirror, blinking, and they're gone. They were the beasts that were at all places in space and time, yet we could not see them, and they could not see us. I noticed one, and at the same time, it noticed me. I was scared, and curled up, floating alone as more of those things noticed me. They began to come towards me, almost running, making terrible sounds. I held my arm out for some reason; it just seemed the right thing to do. The Raven landed on my arm, and gave off a loud caw, which seemed to chase the beasts off. I woke up in a hospital bed.

For days after that I noticed glimmers of disturbing things like the things.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 11/23/91  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident       Hit by car  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Was hit by a car.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt and knew all there was to feel and know in that instant, and then it was gone.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the raven landed on my arm.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     Two bits of Space Time were clearly overlapping where they should've been.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see things that normal people couldn't see.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It could've been a tunnel; all I could see was the White, Black, and Grey of the Lights.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were clearly sinister in intent charging at me, and the raven was protecting me. I used to read Poe's 'The Raven' a lot, and had a pet raven at one point, but not like this one. The raven had a single feather pointing up and back at the back of his head.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Two large Lights, one good, one evil.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I lost it, as the raven left contact with me.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I could see certain things for a little while afterward - I still get glimpses.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I had no choice but to believe. It was all I had.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still believe.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1zachary_j_ndelike.html