{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1yvonne_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Yvonne S NDE 5185","mylang":"de"}
          	        Yvonne S NDE 5185  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Yvonne S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2707 Yvonne S NDE 5185  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the hospital for outpatient surgery on my toe. I was (am) in good health and no problems were anticipated.

During my recovery, when the breathing tube was removed, I was not able to breathe. When I had woken up, the recovery nurse was very close to my ear, telling me to breathe. I tried to tell her that I couldn't breathe, but no sound came out. She kept telling me to breathe and I kept trying to tell her that breathing was not possible.

In my head, I started yelling at the nurse, telling her that if I COULD breathe, I WOULD and STOP telling me to breathe. Then it occurred to me that I was going to die, and I thought, 'This can't be happening. I'm not ready, and my daughter is waiting in recovery. I can't die over a silly little toe procedure.' It struck me as ironic, and at the same time aggravating, that this was happening to me, and that these people seemed like a bunch of idiots - especially the nurse who was getting on my nerves with her insistence that I breathe. Why couldn't she tell that I was struggling to breathe, but it just wasn't working?

Soon after, my legs started shaking and then my whole body. I wondered why my body was bouncing around, but it didn't hurt and it was a pleasant distraction. Suddenly I was aware that I was looking down on my body - but I could also feel. I saw it (my body) bouncing, and it felt like I was on a washing machine and that something else was bouncing me around. So, now I'm somewhere around the ceiling looking down at my body on the table. That was when I noticed all the people in the room. They were doing things quickly, crowding around the table and me. A guy went to the speaker on the wall and said, 'Code red!' and then called for my chest x-rays. From my place near the ceiling, I answered him. I told him that they didn't have my chest x-rays, because they hadn't taken any. But he did not appear to hear me. After that, everything went black. I woke up while being transferred to a hospital room, and I was back in my body again. I had a breathing tube in my nose, and a nurse gave me a breathing thing that I had to blow into every so-many minutes. They kept me there the remainder of the day and night, but released me once the machine said that my respiration was high enough.

I've told my story to my family and to anyone else who is interested. I've told them that if they are in a situation where they cannot breathe, the best thing to do is to try not to struggle and to just let go. Once you let go, it's easy. No pain or bad feelings. I used to fear drowning; always assuming it was the worst way to die. I know now that it is not. Death is not scary. It's not even painful at all. Everything feels good and right once you let it happen. 

                        6/2/2020 Facebook post -   Why are people racist on earth ? 

Many of you know about my Near-death-Experience due to arrythmia complication. While I was in heaven, I asked Jesus why are people racist on earth? This was my first question for obvious reasons. He looked at me with tremendous love, and in a very factual non-judgmental voice said, word for word: “It is because of their self-centeredness”. 

  It had never crossed my mind that this could be the reason. But when you think of it, if you are over-focusing on yourself, you want to surround yourself only with people that look just like you and remind you of YOU. Anything different becomes a threat… A great way to transform that is to start having an interest in the other, forget about self for a moment and reach out to the different one in the crowd, get to know them and you will realize that they love just like you, they have a family who cares for them, they have hopes and dreams like you have, they have been hurt sometimes more than you have. They also participate in making this earth a better place to live. They can be sensitive at times because they have been hurt so often in their daily lives and they do aspire to be treated with fairness and included by all and at all times. Once we accept to open wider this heart of ours and let our mind rest, we deeply understand and realize we are all the same humans and Earthians, maybe with a stronger or milder melatonin level in these containers we call bodies. The violent treatments inflicted due to pre-conceived opinions of difference, based on physical perceptions, will then be irrelevant and equality will be a word we all believe in because we know it to be truly lived. PEACEFULLY standing for those who suffer is highly spiritual and a call to Unconditional Love for All !

 Yvonne

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I floated to the ceiling and watched what was going on.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I floated to the ceiling and watched what was going on.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       First I felt panic, then irritation, then giddiness, and then intense interest in what was happening to my body. Concern for my children was always there.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The calmness I felt after I let go and let it happen.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I woke up in my hospital room, I told my daughter what happened.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read about NDEs before, but had no firm beliefs either way.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I viewed it as an opportunity to learn that death is not painful, and that drowning, or not being able to breathe, is not as bad as it sounds.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yvonne_s_nde.html