{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1zack_j_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Zack J Probable NDE 22299","mylang":"de"}
          	        Zack J Probable NDE 22299  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Zack J Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2438 Zack J Probable NDE 22299  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have written below the accounts of what I experienced from November 4, 2009 to 11 November, 2009    At approximately 1 pm on 4 November, 2009, I called an ambulance pick me up. When the Ambulance arrived, they found me in the entrance area to my home they found my Blood Pressure to be 210.They told me not to move and I kept my eyes closed as the room was spinning very quickly. I was transported to a hospital where I was admitted and the next day transported to another hospital. The events leading up to my transportation to hospital began on 3 November where my family and I enjoyed a barbeque with Friends where twelve adults consumed approximately five bottles of wine. When all the guests left for the evening at approximately 9:30 p.m., I went to bed. I did not feel intoxicated and nothing felt out of ordinary or unusual.

Somewhere between 10 pm and 3 am the following events took place. I was asleep and at the same time very aware that I was physically traveling very fast through time. I was shown my life starting in the Stone Age. I was aware that I was hunting and interacting with other people, I was aware that I was a young man. I could see the landscape and saw my life being revealed in a minute to minute manner. This period ended in a flash of White and Orange. I then moved to the next life, I was in the Mountains and an Ocean where I was riding horses. I then moved to Europe and again aware of old buildings and Cities. I wasn't here for long and no there was no specific city I was aware of. I then came into the pyramid age and was approximately twenty to thirty years of age and was employed to assist in the building of the pyramids. At the time of the pyramids the area was not a desert, it seemed very lush, I saw in detail how the pyramids were built. Again, I saw my life in a moment to moment manner and was aware of eating dinner with other workers. There was no sense that we were slaves or in the situation under duress. I left this at approximately forty years of age. From this point, I flashed to Italy as a young boy and experienced each moment of my life once again to the current point of my life. I experienced each moment over again in every detail. Throughout each life, I traveled on my own.

This point I am now suspended in space experiencing the universe being able to see for miles in every detail and color.  I traveled again.  I was suddenly in front of a very powerful being with a human form. I was aware of him being physically tall almost twice my size and very strong in stature.  I got the sense that he was benevolent and powerful. I could feel his physical power standing in his presence.  There were also three other beings with his with similar characteristics. Even though I was smaller in stature, I didn't feel small around him. He spoke to me and said I know things are bad down there, but you have to go back.  I said I didn't want to go back and we then spoke about Heaven to my right and what we believe to be Hell on my left. We visited the negative place in which the people were dirty and in misery, it was emotionally and physically cold and confusing. The being explained that this is where people go for a short time because they acted inhumane during their earthly lives. Then he showed me Heaven, which was almost a white/yellow light with flowers where the people were happy and at peace, these people seemed to be waiting. Again, he told me to go back and we had a conversation about the need for me to go back, I asked for proof and he agreed that I will have proof. The proof he gave me has happened and is continuing to happen now. The proof he gave me was not in an area, which was of interest to me prior to this experience. At this point, I traveled very fast, landed in the Entry area of my home, and just as quickly traveled to my physical body this is approximately three meters over and three meters down to where I sleep. I hit my body with such force that my body bounced out of bed and I landed on the floor next to my bed.

At this time, I was aware of my surroundings and I could not stand up at all due to severe dizziness, I crawled to the bathroom and then returned to bed, the clock in the bedroom read 3 a.m. I laid in bed and could not sleep as I felt not quite right and the visions of what I had seen through my journey were continuing through my mind. At 12:30 p.m. I called the Ambulance.  These visions continued through until the 11 November 2009.  Initially they were constant and fast moving, gradually slowed, and eventually stopped.   This account is very broad as each area of my journey was revealed to me in great detail, I am unable to record each detail here.  At no time during or since this experience have I experienced any physical pain or damage to my body. This can be confirmed by medical tests.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  4 November to 11 November 2009
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt good.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1zack_j_probable_nde.html