{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1yolanthe_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Yolanthe v M NDE 118","mylang":"de"}
          	        Yolanthe v M NDE 118  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Yolanthe v M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						543  Yolanthe v M NDE  118  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  				  EXPERIENCE  submitted 4/29/02:


My name is Yolanthe v M, and my mind has given and conveyed to me so much knowledge.  When I left my body in 1988 (horse stood on my head) I just was in light, going up.  I left my brain, my body down there, not feeling any pain.  It is the mind of every individual that does go on. I have learned to use my mind to help people, to use my energy, be in command of my mind letting nobody take control of it.  I am a free thinker, without being a puppet in religious belief.  That is the way I am.  To believe in god, is Hell, for then I did suffer from illusions, from persons who wanted, and tried to dominate me.  To be a free thinker is loving life, taking all the advantages, loving everyone as they are.  If I stayed with belief, I would not be accepting all that is alive, including in other dimensions.  Belief is full of limits.  Life goes on, and I know that my Dad, out of body now, shall become m grandson.  His own choice, as a free thinker!  I was my great grandmother, and chose to be with my daughter, my grandmother.  I am and stay a free thinker. That is a very brief introduction.


Second Experience Submitted 2/7/04


I went up a ray of light and was stopped by someone who asked me "Do you believe in God?"  I answered "Yes" and had to leave the light, through an archway to an expanse of blue.  There I did see my grandmother who was so upset about seeing me there, and told me that Dad would take care of me.  I saw Dad in an old boat with my brother Diederic, who dies when he was 6 years old, and I was 1.  I was there for a long time, but outside the boat.


Dad asked me if I wanted to stay or go back.  I did not have time to answer him, but found myself at my daughters' bed, then 10 years old.  I hugged her, kissed her, told her I loved her and was happy, but she did not see me or feel me, crying out Mum don't die, or words to that effect.  The same with my son who was 14 at the time.


I was more than upset and Dad saw that, so I came back but saw that my children did shine light and my husband was in black.  Then on the way back, I saw Richard C who told me to play his music in order to regain my health.


I woke up, and did not have my memory, but my Dads' calling my mother Carla, my brother's girlfriend Francis with the name Peggy.  I did know my son as Daniel but my daughter I did not know.  Dad was a great architect and I did the drawings automatically, though I had no qualifications.


It took me a long time to adapt to being myself again, and letting Dad go, although sometimes he is right beside me, and a part of me when I need it for some reason.  My grandmother was a great artist, doing portraits of famous people like Judges etc.  She painted the faces, but the characters in the hands!  No wonder there were some rather terrible looking hands!


My art is not of how the people look outside, but how they are inside, and some of them do not like at all what they see.  I know that there are many other artists who do the same, thus those people need to help all those who they have harmed in their past, in order to have a clear mind, thus also give out to artists how positive they are!


Writing is just thought transfer to me.  Poetry just comes out when an individual is poetic!

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    January 1988

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death Fell off a horse, which stood on my head, thus with brain injury.  I was clinically dead for 8 days, and my children knew that there was little chance for me to go on living.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

  					 Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  WOW!  Wonderful!   I was a free individual, going up the ray of light.  I did not see or look at my body at all.
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Super!  Very vivid indeed, and stays so like it happened yesterday!
  
  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   My mind can be for a whole day in Paris, and just 30 minutes in a bus, in reality.  There are no time limits to my mind, nor to yours.  They are the people fit and healthy I saw then, thus without any recall of pain.  I do not remember the accident either.  
  
Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Hear, vague music, but no noise from Dad, yet his thoughts I received.  I did hear my children crying when I went to them, and that upset me.  When I came back I heard Richard C telling me to play his music in order to restore my health.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Grandmother, father and brother, then on the way down Richard C.  

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I just went up a ray of light, and stopped when someone asked me if I believed in God.  On saying Yes, I had to leave the light and went through an ach where I saw my grandmother.  The rest is in the question 4  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just light blue, with old boats needing repair.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

  Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I create my own life, my own future, the way I feel it is right for me!  All questions my own mind does answer in a manner that I do understand.

I just use my wavelength to think, thus to transfer thought to and from me. All the questions I have and or had, have answers.  Some answers required that I first know the basic steps, like 1 + 1 = 2 before 12*12 = 144!  Questions like why did I have the experience spring to mind.  Answer: You love it all the way it is now, and have learned so much since that accident!

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I just wrote it down, not just what I do see, but what my mind conveys to me.  There are a heap of files stored with all that information.  That is in the room I see as being past.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     The fence or boundary is believing in a superior power or being. To give light means that you do not ask for anyone to help you.  Religion is full of conflicts, causing wars etc, in the mind as well as in reality.                         

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I chose to return because my children needed me, and because I was so upset by not being able to contact them.                         

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Presbyterian

What is your religion now?      Liberal   I accept and love everyone as they are.  I do not worship or pray to anyone to help me, for I find that I do help myself by helping others.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     That the persons who use belief, tried to limit me to their limits.  I am a free thinker now, and stay so.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Family would not accept my having the experience, and still do not, but I am getting through to them quietly.  Mum still thinks that United Church ideas are right, and I know that it is wrong, feel great about that fact, for my mind and feelings are together on that subject.                         

                         Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I had it, in my mind, just did not know that I had it.  Everyone has it, and it is by time that they use what they have.                         I learned to use all those capacities I was ignoring.  There are so many of them.  Psychic is just to let ideas come to you, that you find are important to know.  Paranormal.  I think I am normal thus see nothing as paranormal.  Artistic like mad, seeing how people are inside them, thus do portraits of how I see them.  Extremely accurate.  Have an income from that.                         
                         
                         Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best, knowing that life goes on, that my Grandmother, Dad and brother were alive and well. The worst was not being able to be in communication with my children.

The best, knowing that life goes on.  The worst, not being able to communicate with my children.
                         
                         Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They love it, especially persons with NDE in strokes.  They feel no more alone.

Especially with stroke victims, so that they do tell their experiences, thus not keep them bottled up inside them.  The elderly loose their fear of death, and look forward to being with their parents and friends again.  They know that they will be children again in their next lives when they want to be.  They take control over themselves!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Tegretol and Dilantin caused me pain, and confusion.  I am very glad I do not use it.  I ask doctors to think again about prescribing drugs to people with NDE, for it may just be harmful to them.                         

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Opened my eyes to inside my brain, which houses my mind.:                          It came at a point of confusion in my life, in order to sort myself out.                         

                         Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Just let people tell what they do wish to, without limiting them to questions.

Do you want to be able to update what you have told us here at a later date?  If you have another address or email address please tell us.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yolanthe_v_nde.html