{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ysel_nde.html","mytitle":"Ysel NDE 7552","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ysel NDE 7552  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ysel NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3874 Ysel NDE 7552  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I knew what I was doing because I had been up all night. When I dropped off my daughter, she said to me, ‘Mommy, promise me that you’re not going to do something stupid.’  I replied, ‘I promise.’ Then I gave her a kiss and took my 3 year old son to his Childcare center and said goodbye to him. 

I didn't want to live anymore and I took pills to take my life. When the firefighters broke down my gates and door, I was looking down at myself seeing everyone trying to bring me back to life. I did feel peace as I can remember; I knew there was someone behind me.  I heard the firefighters and the police speaking to a neighbor that made the call.  My husband was out of town and had called him because he felt there was something wrong. They were asking the neighbor questions.  He told them that he could see me through the bedroom window and that I wasn't moving, so that is why he called 911.  He answered, ’Yes, she has 3 children.  One is in Chicago, one is in grammar school, and the other is in a child care center.' Anyhow I saw from up above, the police was taking notes on where my children went to school.  When the lady officer said to the other one, 'We have to call Children and Family services to pick up the kids and have them go to foster home center.' I remember turning back and begging for my life. I had realized I had made a mistake.  

The next thing I remembered was being in a hospital bed with tubes.  I thank The Lord every day for giving me another chance. I wasn't thinking right and I knew I had to come back.  I do believe in an afterlife experience. This is the first time I share this, because I am afraid that people will look at me differently if you share this with them.  I don't want them to say they don't believe me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  04/2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Suicide attempt.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  But the facts have not been checked out.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I know I felt peace until they said they were going to call Child and Family Services to pick up my children and I knew at that moment they had no one but me and if I didn't come back they would go to places where they didn't know and they might not be safe.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I don't remember the time, I know it was daylight but I don't remember the time and unfortunately, the man that saved me who called 911, died with his son about a month later in a boating accident

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I could hear and understand everything that was going on with the paramedics, the police taking with my friend, I was aware of everything, even though a lot was going on, I knew what everyone was saying and doing.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was happening so fast.  I was begging for my life back to take care of my kids and then I was in a hospital bed.  I couldn't believe it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was a bit louder than normal but peaceful like the Lord wanted me to be sure I heard what was happening and that I wanted to go with him.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I am not sure, because I remember a bright light and I couldn't see this person but I knew he was there. I felt his presence and I felt peace. I felt like I was traveling but yet when the police broke the door and all the commotion was going on I was right on top of them all: like floating in the air.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I can't describe what I don't remember; all I do remember is a lot of peace. I knew I was safe. I knew there was someone that was taking me somewhere better, but I changed my mind and wanted to come back and I thank Him every day for giving me one more chance.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was feeling peace until I heard that about my children. I was scared. I was desperate. I wanted so much to go back. I remember saying ‘I am sorry I want to go back my kids need me’

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I value my life more even since that happened.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt it I knew it I didn't see it but I knew if I followed him I wouldn't come back

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes I felt him next to me, I didn't get to see what he looked like because i never looked back at the light I just knew he was there and he was the one that gave me that chance to come back

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew and saw everything; it was as if he wanted me to see what I was leaving behind.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I knew there was something else out there and it was more peaceful than I can explain but I still needed to come back even though I wanted to go ....towards that peace it was unexplained.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     the love that I had for my children was more important to me than anything

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life. I live to make sure I have done the best I can for my children, and so that he, the one who gave me that chance to come back and make a difference in the lives of my children, will say ‘I made the right decision in letting her go back’.  I know he will call on me but this time it will be when he wants me to go.     Large changes in my life. I live to make sure I have done the best I can for my children, and so that he, the one who gave me that chance to come back and make a difference in the lives of my children, will say ‘I made the right decision in letting her go back’.  I know he will call on me but this time it will be when he wants me to go.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Somewhat when I woke up at the hospital I couldn't understand what was happening and then I was taken to another hospital (a mental hospital) and I remember when the doors opened the first person I saw was my daughter and she said, 'Mommy you lied to me, you don't love me enough to stay with me.' That broke my heart and I knew I had to Thank God for giving me another chance to take care of my children.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        None

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    I am not sure they will believe me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know it was real. I know I didn't dream it, I saw it happening while I was floating in the air.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ysel_nde.html