{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1yolanda_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Yolanda A NDE 9546","mylang":"de"}
          	        Yolanda A NDE 9546  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Yolanda A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5141 Yolanda A NDE 9546  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    My ex-husband won full custody of our young daughter after having molested her. The judge told me that I would never see her again. I couldn't bear this thought and attempted to take my life. 

  I was looking at myself hover above the officers, the paramedics, and my body.  I turned to the officer adjacent to me and yelled, 'I'm dying!' 

  When I realized that he was unfazed by my scream, I looked down at myself. I watched the paramedics administer life support. I then realized that I was watching myself die.  I could see that I was an electric-blue, light orb with a tail of blue light.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 8/2/1996  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Suicide attempt       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Hooked up to life support.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The earthly events that I saw included the administering of life support down my throat.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I have never experienced weightlessness in my normal everyday consciousness and alertness.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I experienced my highest level of consciousness and alertness when I realized that I was separated from my body.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Prior to the time of my experience, I had no vision. Once I separated from my body, I was hovering.  I could see every person at eye level.  Although in real life, I am only 5ft tall and always looking up to men.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear the radios of the IPD and the paramedics talking to each other.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw myself as an electric blue light orb.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Having an orb body of electric blue light is clearly unearthly.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Anger, then confusion.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  I could not hover past the walls of the room.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist     

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had no knowledge of existing as a body of electric-blue light.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know that our soul lives on after death.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

  During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Realizing that I had a body of electric-blue light is special, as I've never heard of anyone experiencing this.  
  
During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was clinically dead, but I still hovered as an orb body of electric blue light with a short tail of blue light.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     I now know that our soul lives after death, but I'm not sure if this is a natural occurrence  or if this is a metaphysical phenomenon.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  The accuracy of my remembrance is vivid because I have never experienced anything like this in my life.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No. Experiencing life after death has not made a significant difference in my life, but I now know that there is life after death.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I waited many years before discussing this with another person. There was no significant reaction.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have never been able to view myself adjacent and hovering from myself. But, I know that it happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I had never seen myself as a glowing orb of electric blue light, but I saw myself with my own "eyes."  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No. My experience was extremely simple.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yolanda_a_nde.html