{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1yulia_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Yulia Possible NDE 3702","mylang":"de"}
          	        Yulia Possible NDE 3702  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Yulia Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1722 Yulia Possible NDE 3702  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					That night I suddenly felt ill. I had, without any reason, sharp and torturing pain in the lower abdomen, like menstrual cramps, but much stronger; I did not have this before. Somehow, I thought of pelvic peritonitis and called my friend, a healer, right away to get help. (I did not want to go to the hospital at all, especially because I was sure of a surgery.) My friend lived nearby and I was at his place in about ten minutes. The pain in my abdomen grew continuously and I was becoming very anxious. My friend only briefly looked at me and started to prepare for a healing ritual. After about five more minutes I was standing in the middle of his room, the lights were off with only a few candles glowing. All that my friend did was looking at the different part of my body, keeping silent, without any hand movements. In a couple of minutes, I felt that I was losing consciousness. I had cases of fainting before and knew how it felt and told the healer about that. He firmly ordered me to get myself together, keep standing and do not give up. I nodded and really tried to do what he told.

Suddenly I saw my body from outside - it was standing vertically and from the front of it, along the centerline, I saw several rays of a bright light bursting from a few spots on the body. I though those were chakras (after I awakened, I asked my friend what he was doing, and he replied that he was healing me using a method based on 'flushing the chakras', possibly that is what I saw; before the experience I did not know what he would be doing). I looked at my body from aside, without any amazement or feeling sorry. Suddenly I was in a huge 'funnel'. It was a pipe, very large in diameter, going far, so much that it looked that its walls narrowed into a point (that's why I say 'funnel'). The funnel was colored and brightly lit. The walls of the funnel were colored along a helix, all colors were bright and clean; I only recognized red and yellow, about other colors I thought I had never seen them before. I had a feeling of a complete reality of the experience!

I flew through the funnel along a spiral at a great speed, very loud noise in my ears, like a very strong wind. On the walls of the funnel, not sure how they were attached, there were some unusual objects; at that moment I knew what they were, but forgot later, I have a vague feeling that they were toys. While flying, I heard voices talking to me. They were a bit with an echo, with unusual timbre, I think now that they were muffled as by cotton. Then I clearly understood what they were telling me and knew that they belong to three apostles, but when I returned, I forgot what they were saying. Being in the 'funnel', I felt happy, free, joyfully amazed like a child. I had a feeling, that in my earthly life I saw everything through a very dusty glass.

Then I felt that somebody caught me in an extremely rude way and threw me back. I was back in the room where the ritual was going on. I was on my back on the floor; the healer was leaning over me, pressing ice to my stomach in the navel area. I realized where I was and became hysterical - I wanted back. When calmed down (i.e. after about ten minutes), I realized that my pain was gone, my weakness was gone and I was well overall. The healer told me that I almost flew away from him 'to the other side', but he was able to catch me. During the next week, I had blood in my urine, gradually disappearing. I did not see any doctors.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  сентябрь 2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    Лечение с помощью специалиста нетрадиционной медицины (колдуна)  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   I don't know if my illness could result in death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was in the 'funnel'.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I got in the 'funnel'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt that I crossed great distances incredibly fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw lights that I had never seen before in my life (therefore I have difficulty to name them).

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was a feeling of some echo and it sounded 'muffled'.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I flew through a huge pipe. Flight trajectory was a helix.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I heard voices and felt a presence of non-human beings, about whom I knew they were apostles.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was everywhere, very clean and lively. Objects that I saw did not produce shadows.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     У меня было ощущение, что я лечу к определенному месту, но меня вернули в эту реальность раньше.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure joy, clear mind, freedom, excitement, amazement.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I took serious interest in oriental spiritual practices and practice them myself.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I took serious interest in oriental spiritual practices and practice them myself.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I started to care more about people, animals, and plants. Started to learn to control my emotions, suspend my own egotism.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is difficult to describe my emotions during the NDE, euphoria and bliss aren't the right words. Cannot describe the colors I saw, because even at the time of the NDE I thought that I had never seen them before in my life.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I started to develop clairvoyant abilities.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told about the experience to the healer, who calmly accepted it; he confirmed that I flew away somewhere. In about two and half years, I told about it to my boyfriend; he was amazed, did not try to dismiss it, and agreed it could happen. Three years later I tried to discuss this with my colleagues (I work in neurosciences), but told it as it happened with somebody else, as I was afraid to be laughed at. My colleagues are sure that an NDE is a kind of hallucination, tunnel vision, brain hypoxia and nothing else.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I watched a TV documentary, read in the newspapers. I thought that an NDE is something like a flight through a dark pipe with a light at the end of it, but my personal NDE did not have anything common with this notion.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was completely immersed in the experience, reviewed all the details in my mind many times. Wanted to live through it again.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I have no doubt that our consciousness has more to it than it is commonly thought.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes I have incredibly lucid dreams, when I see myself from outside, can leave my body and do something outside of it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yulia_possible_nde.html