{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1yvette_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Yvette P NDE 3555","mylang":"de"}
          	        Yvette P NDE 3555  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Yvette P NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1591 Yvette P NDE 3555  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					We had met with an accident and I hit my head and cut my forehead. Although I was not badly injured, I must have cut a blood vessel since I was bleeding profusely. It was right next door to a clinic and when my head was being sewed up under local anesthesia, I must have lost consciousness. I remember a loud roaring in my ears and rushing through a long, dark tunnel at the end of which was a very bright light. I cried out loudly (or so it seemed to me), 'Not now, not now,' and peed. Fortunately, I was having my periods then and was safely padded! With that shout, I came round and saw all the faces around me i.e. doctors, nurses, my friends who were with me in the accident and my sister, all looking very normal - and I was puzzled as I expected to have been asked what I meant by 'not now'. Of course, I myself would not have been able to answer that question at the time!

Anyway I was taken home and slept through that night, but this incident was on my mind and the next day when I was perfectly conscious, I asked my friends and sister whether I had shouted anything while I was being sewed. They said I had been absolutely quiet! I explained what had happened but all of us were very young then and the incident was forgotten but not by me since I knew for sure it must have been a supernatural experience. Quite soon after, I chanced upon a book on 'out of body experiences' and I knew for sure then that what I had experienced had been a near death experience.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  do not remember the date

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  AccidentSurgery-relatedDirect head injury    Other 'We had met with an accident and I hit my head and cut my forehead.  Although I was not badly injured, I must have cut a blood vessel since I was bleeding profusely.  It was right next door to a clinic and when my head was being sewed up under local anest

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Actually, as far as I was concerned at the time, I was not even aware that I had lost consciousness nor did anyone around me think that I had lost consciousness. It was I suppose something that happened within a matter of seconds and also lasted a few seconds and all the while it seemed to me that it was real until I was told that I never uttered a single word at all.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     A sense of altered time I think.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     A very dark tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   At the extreme end of the tunnel which was very, very long.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Warmth - this I remember; but like I was not yet ready for whatever it was that was awaiting me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Born a Roman Catholic but brought up basically with values and ethics and not much religious rituals.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Actually, I did not have religious beliefs as such. We had a Moral Science class in school and we had students from all religions. At home, it was more ethics and values rather than religion.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Well, after having answered a test recently on my religious sentiments, my results said that my beliefs were 75 % Buddhist; 45 % Hindu and 25 % Christian.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Actually, I did not have religious beliefs as such. We had a Moral Science class in school and we had students from all religions. At home, it was more ethics and values rather than religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I kind of felt that I was going somewhere for a purpose except that I was not ready for it and felt unequipped and inadequate.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Well, I know I am much more critical in my perception of people than most of my contemporaries and have been so ever since that experience. It was something like having gone one step higher.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience was so vivid, I re-live it the way it was every time I remember it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Quite a few psychic experiences after this first one.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not really. I was mystified as to what exactly I had experience at the time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real, but what? At the time I had just finished High School and apart from academic studies, I knew nothing about the psychic world nor were permitted to read such books at the time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have had other strange psychic experiences too.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Maybe space for other similar but not same experiences as well. I mean out of body experiences.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yvette_p_nde.html