{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1yves_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Yves F NDE 6612","mylang":"de"}
          	        Yves F NDE 6612  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Yves F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3276 Yves F NDE 6612  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Sunday evening my wife and I were getting ready to watch a video when she said I slumped over and my heart stopped. She started CPR and mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, and called 911. The fire department came to our home, took over, and shocked me. They got me into the ambulance and it took a while until I was in the emergency room before I was converted. I was already being cooled in the ambulance and the hospital continued hypothermia in the intensive care unit.  I was put on a ventilator and did not wake up for three days. My wife said when I finally woke up; I was repeating the same thing about going to the bathroom over and over. It was all I was saying for hours, and then I went to sleep. When I woke up several hours later, she said I was clear and normal.

Then the next time I slept and woke, I was in delirium. She said the only time I knew exactly where I was when I told her that my father brought me to the hospital and was with me for the last three days. He died in about 1990. I told her about what happened with my father and how he told me about the future and what choices I had about staying or going back to life here.  There is a lot of emotional information that I experienced that I cannot talk about with anyone else yet, other than my wife. It was a profound experience, and I had a clear choice to live with certain issues if I came back, or go with my father to another place forever. I finally came out of delirium and then went to rehabilitation at the stroke and anoxic brain injury center of the hospital where I had been transferred.

It is still a very emotional time. I should have died from my heart stopping. It took forty-five minutes before it was restarted. I was unconscious for three days on a ventilator. I hate acute delirium that persisted for nearly two weeks. My heart was ninety-nine perfect blocked in the lower-right area. I fell while I was on blood thinners and experienced massive blood loss. It is a miracle that I am able to walk, talk, think, and remember.  I do most of the things I could prior to the heart attack. I chose to come back to life even knowing there would be bad parts, because I know the future is good.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Dec 30   - Jan 2  2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack. CPR given.   Clinical death followed by 3 days on life support while unconscious.  My heart stopped at home. I did not know what happened until I was out of acute delirium, except for the experiences that I relayed to my wife and sisters during the delirium.  It was the only time that I knew I was in the hospital. I did not know what country I was in until my brain came out of the delirium.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was reliving things, but with more intense feeling and emotion.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I cannot call it a higher level of consciousness or alertness. It was more of an interactive adventure. If I talked to someone, then something else was experienced. It was like feeling their memory of that experience very deeply and in every way possible.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The only time I had any recall of time was after the event. It was three days long for my wife and sisters.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Color vision was prism-like and emotions emanated in various colors during the experience.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was not like normal hearing. It was knowing and not easy to describe. It was unspoken and visual.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     First my father. We met many deceased people together. He was guiding me throughout this whole experience.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   All light was in a different view. It was prismatic.  I do not know if this is an unearthly light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Where I was it was not like earth at all. It was a place of another dimension where bodies are remembered as if they looked only in memories. There we’re masses of colorful light. That seemed normal in that place. I felt it was normal for that experience.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       What I felt was beyond anything I have ever experienced. The emotions were extremely intense.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     I always felt united and never conflicted with nature. I feel gratitude deeply.  I was able to feel everything from the other person’s emotions. It changes you greatly. I am different in how I treat others. I have always treated others with respect, and thought I was very good to most people. I discovered that other people can accept things very differently, even though it was presented well, and with respect.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I cannot reveal any future visions I was given. It was told to me that it could be used to hurt others by those that are out to profit from future knowledge. It was for my awareness and protection that I was given certain information about future events, as a kind of reward for doing good.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was presented with some good and bad things to face in the future, and was given a choice to stay or return. This included knowing I would suffer emotional and physical issues that may be very difficult.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   non practicing muslim.I do believe in one God for all,not a specific religious type.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     It confirmed God.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I knew I would see past people that were no longer living ,but I did not think I would have a body of light and emotion.I knew God was there but I thought God would somehow be more like A giant figure.I did not think God was within everyone inside their lights.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am focused on creating loving goodness in all I do.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The light of prisms held the many prayers of the people I knew. I felt the depth of those prayers within the lights.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I feel the presence of god was within all the lights everywhere.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     We are all connected by the light that carries all of our experiences as well as the envelope of God light that links us all together.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     God was in every being in the varied spectrums of the lights that were comming out of the light beings that we were in that place.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I thought I was a really good person. I was, but I can be even better as now I know what others feel. I can change myself to be a different type of loving person.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Love and care and love of all humans,animals, plants, water, rocks, earth.we are meant to be together in unity.The native Americans have a great deal of this right-every decision is made by doing no harm and that means for 7 generations. We would be wise

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     We continue as spiritual emotional beings of an incredible spectrum of amazing lights.We continue with all of our earthly and other experiences-heaven/hell as well.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Some things cannot be shared .

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Love will help us get through the many difficulties we will create by our unloving and greedy actions.We are one together so the suffering of one will affect all and visa versa.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It is our most precious gift from God. We have been endowed with a great capacity to love as long as we make the effort to do that. Love can be as simple as a smile or as complex as giving away your fortune to the needy.Pay it forward is one of the tools

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I have different, deeper emotions, and a greater reverence for everything.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I am even kinder and more generous and helpful.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is like plugging your brain and emotions into another's and feeling things together. It is beyond talking about feelings entirely.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I lost memories of certain things just weeks prior to my heart attack, and I do not remember much of the hospital time.I spent several hours telling my wife about this the day after I woke up and she kept a record of it for me. I also told my sister about this experience.I do not recall telling them clearly as some of this is now gone from my memory,and I recall mostly the last 8-9 days in the hospital after the delerium was over. My wife wrote down over 75 pages of what I told her had happened after I said I had been with my father for the last three days. She said it was the only time I was clear and knew where I was and then I explained this to her.She did not ask me any questions during the several hours she said I explained what had happened with my father.It was the only time I answered questions in detail and very emotionally.I do have a clear memory of what the future events are.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I now know how deep our actions and words effect everyone. I have a new gut feeling for the wrong things, no matter how minor, as to what will cause harm. It is a kind of guide for my life decisions, aside from already knowing the right things to do.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My father and others that have passed on have always been there as sort of guides/guardians. They will always be there with me, and when I pass on, they will be there again to help me pass on.  Love is so meaningful. God is there in everything that we do.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The same day after I woke up, I told my wife and sisters. They were very amazed. My sisters had been to my father’s grave in Tehran the day after my heart attack to pray for him to not take me away. I did not know this until I was out of the hospital. My wife and sisters were very amazed due to the delirium. It was a miracle that I was clear and could recount this experience because I’d often lapse back into a state where I did not know who my wife was or know where I was. I was told I knew many facts both past and current, but could not link the information together or control my brain or emotions.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had heard of people having the tunnel experience or the light, but it was not really of great interest to me, just like the weather report. Sunny or raining and that was it. I did not have any real knowledge of this type of thing.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I can only say that while in acute delirium was the only time I was able to think or put information together. After the experience, I was treated with drugs to control the sudden changes in personality. I had to have sitters to help control my actions. When I transferred to another hospital, I had a psychotic episode in the intensive care unit. I had to have eight people move me out of the wheel chair to the bed. I kicked and punched people; I bit my wife, and all while yelling foul language at the top of my voice. I had to be sedated with heavy medications that night. My wife said by the time the injection was finished I was out. This is not who I am or have ever been. I understand my brain was going through something where the synapses were not functioning and could not link things together to make sense. I know what I told my wife has major effects in my life because I cannot recall the bad. I can recall only the future information that I was shown during the experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was a miracle that I was able to relate it to anyone. Especially since I had delirium before and after I related the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Sharing my experience with anyone gives me the opportunity to help others realize that everything we do counts, no matter how small or unseen. We go on with our spiritual God as we go on to another place that houses our emotional lights of life. We will burn brighter and more colorful as we love and pass on that love to others. We will help them experience the profound meaning of what it means, and why it is the most important thing, and how it connects us with God in what we do.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I have none at this time. I will have to think and get back to you. I thank you for the opportunity to share parts of my experience in hopes of helping others realize their best life now. Be well, love always, and trust God is always there in everything we are.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yves_f_nde.html