{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1yolanda_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Yolanda H NDE 6059","mylang":"de"}
          	        Yolanda H NDE 6059  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Yolanda H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2877 Yolanda H NDE 6059  					  				  			          			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					That morning my mom woke me up and told me to get ready to go to school and I told her I didn't wanted to go.  She said, 'Okay don't go', but a couple minutes later she went back in the room and said, 'No, you're going to school, come on, get up and get ready.'  I got up and got ready and went out the door with her, but forgot my backpack. My mom said to go back inside and get it and that she was going to be waiting for me in the car. I went in, got my backpack, and went outside. I had to cross the street to get to the car. My mom screamed at me, 

'Cross now! Cross now!' I hesitated a little because a car was coming, but I crossed and that's when the car hit me.  The next thing I remember is getting up from the floor but my body was still lying down.  I saw white clouds all over.  I looked up to sky and there were more clouds.  I didn't see God but I had faith he was there and I knew I was dead.  I saw a shadow of a thin tall man looking down at me from the cloud, this man was walking on the cloud. I started to beg God to let me live.  I said, 'God please let me live; if I die my mom and my brothers are going to cry a lot for me. God please let me live. I don't want to die right now; I'm too young. I want to grow up get married and have children. After that, you can take me but not now.' I said this many times over and over.

I looked up to the sky again and I saw a red, flying humanoid.  It was like a human being but with large long wings and red all over.  This humanoid was hovering at the edge of the cloud in the sky.  I kept begging God to let me live and I saw my great grandma who had died more than twenty years from that day.  My grandma screamed, 'My God!' and I breathed. I was back in my body.  I opened my eyes and I saw two nurses coming down from the clouds toward me; one nurse went to my right side and the other nurse to my left side.  All I could see were their silhouettes.  There were two paramedics there, one on each side, but all I could see were their silhouettes.  Their silhouettes were formed of many black dots and the outer of the silhouettes were many white dots.  I lifted up my hand to touch the face of the nurse that was on my right side but my hand went through her face. I lifted my hand again to touch her face but the paramedic on my right side got my hand and placed it down.  I have seen ghosts but I ignore them. I'm afraid that if they know I can see them they're going to bug me, use me or scare me. I have heard voices in the wind but pretend I can't hear.  I have always had faith in God; it's something my mom taught me and I will always have faith in him.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  August 25, 1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I knew I had died and that was it. So I asked God over and over to let me live that I didn't wanted to die.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND unpleasant and/or frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as I got up from the floor; leaving my body on the floor.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No difference.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My great grandma.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   It was light blue sky and white clouds, all around me were white clouds and in the sky white clouds.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was like a platform and there were white clouds everywhere and the sky was blue and there were white clouds in the sky also.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was afraid because I knew I had died.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   I'm catholic but I don't believe in saints.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I knew that God was everywhere and he is.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   With faith I knew God was there, everywhere I knew he could hear me, see me and knew what was going on.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   With faith I knew God was there, everywhere I knew he could hear me, see me and knew what was going on.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     My great gandma screamed at him "my God!" and that's when I took a breath in my body.  Also because of my faith in God I knew he was listening and looking at me.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     yes because I was alive with my soul.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I moderately fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     Every now and then I'm able to see and hear ghost but I ignore them.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I saw my great grandma.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yolanda_h_nde.html