{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V17 1915-16","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v17_1915-16.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V17 1915-16","mylang":"de"}
Society
JOURNAL
OF THE
for Psychical Research
VOLUME XVII
1915 —1916
Fo7' Private Circulation amono- Members
and Associates only
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
All yights 7-eserved
\
No. CCCXV.—Vol. XVII J(13^UARY, 1915.
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
New Members and Associates, 2
Meeting of the Council, 2
Case, 2
A Supposed Case of Clairvoyance, - 8
Review : M. Maeterlinck's " The Unknown Guest," 14
The American Society for Psychical Research, 16
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT THE HOUSE OF
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE
(in the Robert Barnes Hall),
I WIMPOLE STREET, LONDON, W.
(Entrance in Henrietta Street),
On FRIDAY, JANUARY 2^th, 191 5, at 5 p.m.
WHEN
Mr. J. G. PIDDINGTON
WILL READ A PAPER ON
"Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type."
N.B.
—
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing tlieir fiames
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the produdioti of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member
or Associate is allowed to invite one friejid.
2 Jourlf.(^ pf'Sx>ciety for PsycMcal Research. Jan., 1915.
"•./NE\^' MEMBEllS . AND .ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Bolton, Lyndon, The Patent Office, 25 Southampton Buildings,
London, W.C.
Lawry, J. Littleton, M.D., Calstock, Cornwall.
Armstrong, Miss M. M., 57 Kedington Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Hall, Miss E. M., Swedish Gymnasium, Prince's Drive, Colwyn Bay.
Harris, Mrs., The Willows, Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
Holt, Miss Winifred, New York Association for the Blind, 111 East
59th Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Matsumura, Rev. Kaisiki, Omori, Tokio, Japan.
Perry, Horace H., Court Royal, 144 Kings Cliff, Brighton.
Scott, F. Gilbert, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Rocquaine, New Maiden,
Surrey.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 131st Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, December 14th, 1914, at
5 p.m. ; The President, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir Lawrence
Jones, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Mr.
H. Arthur Smith ; also Miss Alice Johnson, Eesearch Officer,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Two new Members and seven new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for November, 1914, were presented
and taken as read.
CASE.
L. 1202. Hallucination.
The following case of a sensory hallucination, perhaps tele-
pathically induced, has been sent to us through Miss Agnes
Fry, who is a Life Member of the Society. The percipient
Jan,, 1915. Case. 3
was Miss Winifred Gill, Millbrook House, Guildford, and she
records her experience as follows
:
Sunday, January 18, 1914.
To-night at about 8.30 (certainly between 8 and 9) I came
downstairs into the hail, and as I reached the last stair I looked
up and saw what I could only suppose to be our maid Lizzie come
from the direction of the front door and pass me, going downstairs
to the kitchen. I knew that she had been suffering a good deal
from toothache, and although she was not due to come in until
9.30, I supposed that it being a cold night she had come in early.
I was going to address some remark to her on the subject, but she
looked straight in front of her in a way that gave the suggestion
of sullenness, and I hesitated and changed my mind.
I noticed that she was dressed in a dark coat and skirt, navy
blue or black, and that her hat was lined with green velvet, a
fact which surprised me, as Lizzie has been in mourning for some
time.
I wondered how she had got in without my hearing the bell or
the front door close, and, when I came to think of it, who had
opened the door to her, as I could hear my aunt in the kitchen,
and I found my sister reading in the drawing-room. However, I
iiad some business on hand which took my attention, and the
matter passed out of ray mind.
I was down in the kitchen later on for about half an hour, and
not finding Lizzie there, supposed her to be in her bedroom.
At 9.30 she did not appear, and my aunt remarked that the girl
was late. I then told her that Lizzie had been in more than an
hour, for I had seen her ; that I particularly noticed she had green
velvet in her hat, whereas I had thought she was in mourning ; and
that my sister had said, "Oh no, she is just out of it. She has a coat
with a purple collar to it." "In that case," said my aunt, "let us
ring for her." She did not come, however, and I was crossing the
hall ten minutes later to see if there were a light in her room when
the door-bell rang. It was Lizzie herself this time wearing a long
grey coat with a purple collar and a plain black hat. She struck
me as looking unexpectedly short.
I asked if she had been in before. She looked very surprised,
and said, " Why, no. Miss Winnie, but I was rather late out ; it
was nearly eight before I went."
I tried to recall the appearance of the girl I had seen. She
struck me now, on looking back, and with the real Lizzie before
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1915.
me, as having been slightlj' taller and certainly broader. She had
worn a coat and skirt such as Lizzie usually wears, and I did not
remember that she had worn glasses, in fact as well as I could
remember I was almost certain that she had not.
My mother, whose memory for detail is very retentive, said she
felt sure that Lizzie had had a hat trimmed with green velvet when
she first came, so that I decided I would ask her in the morning.
Monday, January 19, 1914.
As I was going to sleep last night I tried to think which of our
former maids it could have been that I saw, if not Lizzie, and I
decided that it probably was Nellie Lee, a girl who left us more
than ten years before. I dreamed about her then, seeing her face
very clearly. She was wearing in my dream a green velvet hat.
In the morning I asked Lizzie if she had, or had ever had, a hat
with green velvet in it, and she said yes—when she first came, but
she had only worn it about once. The velvet was round the hat,
but not under the brim, and it was a very dark green. She no
longer possessed the hat.
My mother on hearing this said, " There is only one other girl I
can think of M'ho it might have been, and that is Nellie Lee. She
was a little taller than Lizzie and stouter, and she had a hat made
of green velvet. She has been in my thoughts a good deal lately,
for no reason that I know of."^
I had no sensation of fear or surprise when I met the girl. I
particularly remember that I heard her walking on the oil-cloth ; in
fact, there was nothing to show that it was not a being of flesh
and blood. She passed between me and the light, and her face
was in shadow, which partly accounted for my mistaking her for
Lizzie.
I was about twelve years old when Nellie Lee left, and do not
remember to have seen her since. I believe she left the town
almost immediately.
Winifred M. Gill.
Mrs. Gill corroborates Miss Gill's statement, thus
:
January 29, 1914.
On Sunday, January 18, 1914, I was in my room by about
7.30 in the evening ;
my son was helping me with some business
^ When Miss Gill wrote this report, she was not aware of her brother
having recently met Nellie Lee and spoken of her to Mrs. Gill. She heard
of this next day, January 20, 1914. (See below.)—Ed.
Jan., 1915. Case. 5
relating to my late husband's affairs, and we were very much
occupied. Winifred was out to tea.
I think it was about 8 o'clock when she came back, and I asked
her to fetch the papers from downstairs, which she did, and went
down again.
She came up at about 9 with my supper—which she had cooked
herself—and we only said a few words about her visit in the
afternoon.
At about 9.45 Winifred came up and told me that when she
went down after fetching me the papers she saw the servant
Lizzie—who was out for the evening—cross the hall, from the
direction of the door, and go down the kitchen stairs. Winifred
went straight into the drawing-room where her sister Rosalind was
sitting and told her that Lizzie had come in, and no doubt would
get the supper. She waited a while, but as her Aunt Mary did
not come upstairs, she concluded Lizzie was not well and had
gone to her bedroom, so she went to the kitchen and helped
prepare supper.
At a few minutes past 9.30 Aunt Mary had remarked, "Lizzie
is late." Winifred had said, " Oh, no, she came in at 8.30, and
went straight to the kitchen." Aunt Mary remarked that she had
heard no one come down, and also asked how Lizzie could have
got into the house, as the door was locked.
After Winifred had told me, I said, " I wonder if one of our
old maids was thinking of us and of coming into the house." The
only one I could think of at all like Lizzie was Nellie Lee, and I
bad been thinking about her lately. My son met her not long
before Christmas and came back and told me about it, and we
remarked on how she had changed from the pretty, bright girl she
used to be. (Winifred had not heard of this.) Nellie Lee was a
fair girl, rather taller and larger-built than Lizzie, but might well
resemble her in a bad light. She did not wear glasses, and, I feel
sure, had a hat turned up with green velvet, as I used to notice
how pretty her hair looked against it. ,^ . ^
Sarah Alice Gill.
Miss Gill's brother also corroborates her statement, thus:
December 1, 1914.^
I was in my Mother's room on the evening of January 18th when
my sister Winifred came up and told us of her experience, as related
^ In view of the fact that Mr. Gill's corroboration was not obtained for nearly
a year, Miss Gill writes that his memory for details is very retentive.
—
Ed.
6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1915.
in my mother's account—which I fully corroborate. I particularly
remember her saying that the figure wore a green velvet hat, but
no mention was made in my presence of Nellie Lee.
. .
Raymond Gill.
Miss Verrall, who had an intervievp with Miss Gill, makes
the following statement, based on contemporary notes
:
Miss Gill came to see me, by appointment, on January 28,
1914. I questioned her as to whether there was any possibility
that the figure she saw in the hall was the maid, Lizzie, going
out, but she said that this explanation was excluded for several
reasons
:
(a) Lizzie had gone out a little before 8 p.m, (see above),
whereas it was certainly after 8 p.m. when she saw the figure.
(b) The clothes which the figure was wearing diff'ered noticeably
in several ways from the clothes which Lizzie was wearing that
evening, e.g. as regards the coat and skirt, —not a long coat, —and the
hat lined with green velvet.
(c) If the girl had been Lizzie on her way out, she would pre-
sumably have been seen walking from the kitchen stairs to the
front door instead of in the reverse direction. It was impossible
for any one without a key to get in at the front door without
being let in, unless the door was " on the latch." As Miss Gill
had let herself in with a latch-key about twenty minutes earlier,
and, so far as she or any one else in the house knew, no one had
come in since, she had every reason to think that the door was
latched as usual that evening.
In explanation of the statement in her original record that she
" did not remember that [the girl she saw] wore glasses," she
said that Lizzie wore rather conspicuous spectacles.
She also said that according to the recollection of Mrs. Gill and
herself no mention was made between them of Nellie Lee until
January 19, 1914, i.e. until after Miss Gill's dream about her.
It was on January 20, 1914, that Mrs. Gill told her of her
brother having met Nellie Lee a few weeks before Christmas.
H. DE G. Verrall.
This case presents two points of interest :
(i) There seems little doubt that Miss Gill experienced on
this occasion a vivid sensory hallucination. For there is
good reason to believe that at the time when Miss Gill saw
the figure which she describes no person answering to this
Jan., 1915. Case. 7
description was present. The inmates of the house, as is
clear from the narratives of Mrs. and Miss Gill, were otherwise
accounted for, and it seems certain that no one could have
entered the house without being admitted from within. From
Miss Gill's statement that she particularly remembers hear-
ing the figure walking on the oil-cloth, it appears that the
hallucination was of two senses.
(ii) As to what may have caused this hallucination, whether,
for instance, it was telepathically induced, the case is not so clear.
If Mrs. and Miss Gill and Mr. Eaymond Gill are right in their
recollection that no mention was made of Nellie Lee in Miss
Gill's presence until after her dream on the night of January
18-19, it is certainly curious that Miss Gill should independently
have reached the conclusion that the figure she saw was that
of Nellie Lee, and that she should have had this impression
at a time when, unknown to her, Nellie Lee, whom she had
not seen for more than ten years, had been in Mrs. Gill's
thoughts. It is, however, difficult to be sure that nothing
was said to Miss Gill on the evening of January 18, which
might have suggested Nellie Lee to her, especially in view of
the fact that, according to Mrs. Gill's statement, when she
heard of her daughter's experience, she said :
" I wonder if one
of our old maids was thinking of us and of coming into the
house."
But, even if we suppose that Miss Gill's dream and her
conscious identification of the apparition with Nellie Lee were
the result of some suggestion made to her by Mrs. Gill,
there is one piece of evidence connecting the apparition with
Nellie Lee which cannot be so explained, namely, the hat
lined with green velvet. This part of Miss Gill's impression
was evidently prior to any conversation she had on the
subject with Mrs. Gill, because she spoke of it almost imme-_
diately to her sister, when she was still under the impression
that the figure she had seen was that of the maid Lizzie.
Miss Eosalind Gill's corroboration cannot now be obtained, but
Mr. Eaymond Gill, in the statement which has been quoted
above, says that he particularly remembers that in her original
account of her experience to Mrs. Gill and himself, Miss Gill
mentioned the green velvet hat.
If any telepathic influence was involved, it came, pre-
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1915.
surnably, from Mrs. Gill's mind, since she had recently been
reminded of Nellie Lee and is sure that she " had a hat turned
up with green velvet, as I used to notice how pretty her hair
looked against it."
Miss Gill said, in reply to a question, that she had never
had any similar hallucination before, although she had had
several curious experiences of a premonitory character.
A SUPPOSED CASE OF CLAIRVOYANCE.
In the Annalen der Natur- und CuUur-Philosophie (Ed. Wilhelm
Ostwald) for October, 1913, there appeared an article by W.
von Wasielewski entitled " Concerning a Case of Experimental
Clairvoyance." Our attention was called to this article shortly
after its appearance by one of our Associates, Professor Hans
Driesch, but we have not hitherto published any report upon
it, partly from lack of space, and partly because the author
held out hopes of a further and more conclusive series of
experiments, which, so far as we know, have not yet been
carried out.
The experiments were conducted by Herr von Wasielewski
himself, the subject being a young lady of his acquaintance,
Fraulein von B., whom he describes as enjoying excellent
physical and mental health. She had not apparently tried any
similar experiments before, but " for various reasons " Herr
von Wasielewski concluded that she was likely to be " gifted
as regards the phenomena in question," namely telepathy and
clairvoyance.
The first experiments, in the early summer of 1912, were
concerned with automatic writing and telepathy. Herr von
Wasielewski describes them as " successful," but gives no
details. Towards the end of the year the question occurred
to him " whether Fraulein von B. would be able to recognise
an object in a closed box without any mental assistance
from me."
By way of a preliminary experiment I packed a key about six centi-
metres long between folded paper in a cardboard box, which I corded
and sealed with my own seal.
I told Fraulein von B. to go with this box into an adjoining room,
lie down on the sofa, and try whether she could under these conditions.
Jan., 1915. A Sujyposed Case of Clairvoyance. 9
discover its contents. . . . During her absence I read a book which
interested me, in order not to think of the key, and succeeded in my
purpose. After about eight minutes Fraulein von B. came back and
told me that she felt sure she had been successful. In the first place
she was certain that the object was of metal. Secondly, its form
was that of a key : a ring, then a shank, and at the top a projecting
piece, hke the wards of a key. She therefore believed the object to
be a key, of such and such a length (measuring out the right distance
with her hands). I ascertained by careful examination that the cord-
ing and sealing of the box were untouched.
It might seem from this description that Herr von Wasie-
lewski does not clearly distinguish between telepathy and
clairvoyance in the true sense of the word, i.e. a perception
derived neither through the ordinary channels of sense, nor
from any other mind, since the fact that he w^as not con-
sciously trying to influence Fraulein von B. at the time of the
experiment affects hardly at all the question as to whether she
derived her impression from his mind. Later on in his report,
however, Herr von Wasielewski does distinguish between the
two types of phenomena, and puts forward reasons for thinking
that in the case of Fraulein von B. we have to deal with
clairvoyance rather than thought-transference.
[Experience] clearly points to the fact that telepathy and clair-
voyance are distinct although interrelated phenomena ; there is tele-
pathy proper (communication from one mind to another), and there
is clairvoyance proper, without any such communication. Moreover,
in my opinion it is as good as certain—and later I hope to estabUsh
beyond doubt what I can now only put forward as a probability
—
that in the experiments with which we are here concerned, we have
to do with clairvoyance and not with, telepathy.
The reasons which Herr von Wasielewski adduces in support
of this conclusion are that, whereas in the case of his earlier
telepathic experiments with Fraulein von B.
{a) an effort was required on the part of the agent,
(6) not every one could play the part of agent,
(c) separation of the agent and percipient made the experi-
ment harder ;
in the case of the box-experiments
(a) no effort was required on the part of the agent,
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1915.
(6) any person could play the part of agent,
(c) separation of the agent and percipient had no effect on
the result.
For all these reasons the hypothesis of telepathy could only be
maintained by supposing that any human being's bare knowledge
of the contents of the box is sufficient to produce after an interval
of many days an unconscious and unintentional transference of thought,
so soon as the percipient, in this case, Fraulein von B., tries to "see
"
the contents of the box.
Herr von Wasielewski also attaches great weight to the fact
that Fraulein von B. herself declares that there is a marked
difference in her sensations in the two types of experiment.
In the case of telepathic experiments she has a series of changing
mental images, from which one clear impression gradually
emerges ; in the case of the box-experiments, on the other
hand, she has a sudden detailed impression as to the pecu-
liarities of the enclosed object, " not so much a mental image
of it, but rather a knowledge of its nature." When, for
instance, she was asked how she could distinguish so clearly
between gold and brass, she said that gold gave her the
impression of a much softer metal. Fraulein von B.'s intro-
spective analysis of her own sensations is interesting psycho-
logically, but Herr von Wasielewski does not seem to have
made any allowance for the possible effect of suggestion.
The weakest point of his argument for clairvoyance is that,
as he himself admits, he has not hitherto carried out any
experiments under conditions " expressly devised to exclude the
telepathic hypothesis," and considering how far stronger at the
present time is the evidence for telepathy than for clairvoyance,
we are bound, I think, to give precedence to the telepathic
hypothesis, unless it is absolutely excluded. Moreover, some of
Herr von Wasielewski's arguments seem to show that he does
not make sufficient allowance for the fact that telepathic
impressions may be subconsciously transmitted, and may also
be deferred.
Herr von Wasielewski says that he tried fifty experiments
in all, of which forty-five were at least partly successful.
The time required for each experiment was from three to ten
minutes. He could not form any definite opinion as to the
Jan., 1935. A Supposed Case of Clairvoyance. 11
cause of failure. He satisfied himself that it Avas not due to
the nature of the object which was to be " perceived," or of
the material used for the outer wrapping. In describing the
conditions under which the experiments were conducted, Herr
von Wasielewski says that, although he is personally convinced
of Fraulein von B.'s absolute trustworthiness, he is aware that
this argument will not carry weight with the general public,
and, moreover, the possibility of unconscious fraud has to be
taken into account.
To form any conjecture as to their content from the outside of the
boxes was impossible. They consisted, in most cases, of thin, but
strong and stiff cardboard, . . . and later on they were often of tin.
. . . The size and shape of the boxes did not bear any tell-tale rela-
tion to their contents. For example, in the case of a fairly early
experiment, an object four centimetres long packed in a box about
twenty-five centimetres long was correctly recognised. . . .
The fastenings were always from the fiist knotted and sealed in
several places. As a rule, I used my own seal for this purpose. In
several instances parcels from people who were interested came to
the house ready-prepared, and provided respectively with the seals
of those who had sent them. . . . Moreover, Fraulein von B. was
alone with the box only for a few nunutes in a neighbouring room,
liable to observation at any moment, and on many occasions actually
under observation ; often in strange houses, where no preparations
could be made beforehand either to copy the seals, or to take them
off and replace them again. . . .
If these phenomena are to gain general recognition, it is essential
that we should have a guarantee against fraud, deliberate or other-
wise, and therefore, at the risk of being tedious, I must concern myself
with this question a little longer. The boxes gave, as we have seen,
no clue to their contents . . . but, in case the objection is made that
so long as the percipient remained alone with the closed box for several
nunutes, we have no right to say that fraud was absolutely excluded,
... I will add that on several occasions it was found possible to
carry out the experiments with equal success in the presence of myself
and other witnesses. . . .
Dr. Bayer and Professor Edmund Konig, both of this town [Leip-
sig], the former . . . State medical-adviser, the latter a master at
the "Gymnasium" here, and author of several philosophical works
. . . have given me permission to declare in my article in their
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1915.
names tliat they were present throughout the whole of one experi-
ment and thereby convinced themselves that Fraulein von B. did
not leave her place, nor manipulate the box in any way to
discover its contents.
It is unfortunate that Herr von Wasielewski was not able
to report the whole series of experiments (doubtless for reasons
of space), but gives only a few selected instances, and even
those not in as much detail as might have been desired. The
following is one of the experiments which he describes. On this
occasion Fraulein von B. was alone with the box for some minutes.
Object. A paper-weight in the shape of an egg of reddish-brown,
slightly speckled marble, wrapped between folded paper in a card-
board box. Fraulein von B. came back after an absence of eight
minutes ; since she stated that she had not begun at once, the actual
duration of the experiment would be about five minutes. " It is
an object of such and such a length (measuring off the right length
between her hands), of a dark, very hard substance. But not metal ;
I think it is stone. Judging by the shape, I should say it was a wooden
darning-egg of my mother's, but, as I have said, it is not of wood, also
it is darker. And there is another peculiarity about it, that on one
side it has a small flat surface to lie on." Every statement, includ-
ing the last, was correct. On the other hand, the colour was only
noted as dark, and, on enquiry, was not recognised more exactly.
This, I may add, has been hitherto a characteristic of these experi-
ments. With few exceptions, the colours of the objects are only
distinguished as light or dark, much as a person totally colour-blind
might see them. . . . Hitherto the actual colour has been recog-
nised, as a rule, only in the case of metals, which are described as
grey (tin or aluminium), white (silver or nickel), brown (copper), yellow
(gold or brass, which, however, are distinguished from one another,
as I have said before). This rather curious circumstance is one of
the pecuUarities to which I referred above as bejng an argument against
telepathy, since in the case of telepathic communication the colour
must be as communicable as any other factor, and actually is so, accord-
ing to the experience of myself and other investigators. Neverthe-
less, I note in passing that in the telepathic experiments also I had
some failures as well as successes in regard to colour, and this fact
has given me the idea of making a special enquiry on this point. At
any rate, in the case of the box-experiments, contrary to the results
obtained by telepathy, there was as a rule no impression of colour.
Jan., 1915. A Su2Jposed Case of Clairvoyance. 13
The following is an account of another experiment, during
which Herr von Wasielewski was present throughout
:
Object. An empty scent-bottle, with a glass stopper, packed up
with paper in a tin box so that it could not move. Fraulein von B.
put the box on this occasion on her breast. (This she usually did,
but the action had no influence on her success.) After about a quarter
to half a minute she said :
" I feel the metal very strongly again,
from my knees to my head, but another feeling also comes in between."
After a minute :
" Glass." Then she went on with pauses of only
a second :
" Eather long, at the top it gets suddenly small, as though
broken off, then wide again, like a stopper. It is certainly a little
bottle of glass, and the stopper is of glass too, and cut off square, not
round—the little bottle is also four-cornered." The size of the bottle
and the fact that it was empty were also correctly given. The dura-
tion of the whole experiment was about two minutes.
Herr von Wasielewski gives one curious instance in which
Fraulein von B. received a correct impression of an object
which had been accidentally included amongst the contents of
the box without the sender's conscious knowledge. This is the
strongest piece of evidence for clairvoyance against telepathy
which he is able to put forward.
He also gives a detailed account of an experiment designed
to show that Fraulein von B.'s abnormal powers include per-
ceptions of taste and smell. He had six small glass bottles
made up by a chemist, containing respectively saccharine and
water, distilled water, citric acid and water, quinine and water,
peppermint essence and water, and brandy.
These bottles were placed one after another in a corded
cardboard box which was laid either on Fraulein von B.'s
forehead or on her neck. Herr von Wasielewski was present
throughout the whole experiment and testifies to the fact that
she never touched or saw the bottles. The result of the
experiment (in brief) was as follows :
Subject. Impression.
Failure.
" Something like port-wine, but
light in colour."
1. Quinine.
2. Brandy.
3. Saccharine.
4. Peppermint-essence. " Peppermint."
" Sweet."
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1915.
5. Distilled water. " Something like the last, but
6. Quinine.
7. Citric acid.
8. Distilled water.
9. Brandy.
10. Saccharine.
fainter."
Failure.
" Taste of lemons."
" Still a taste of lemons."
" Brandy."
"The sweet taste again."
As regards the impressions of peppermint, citric acid, and
brandy, the most natural explanation perhaps is hyperaesthesia
of smell, and this interpretation is borne out by the double
failure with quinine which has little or no scent. On the other
hand, the double success with saccharine, which also is practi-
cally scentless, is not so easily explained on this hypothesis.
Moreover, the first impression of the brandy as " Something
like port-wine, but light in colour," is interesting, as is also
the persistence each time of the preceding sensation in the
case of the distilled water.
The general impression made by Herr von Wasielewski's
report is that even if he has not succeeded as yet in clearly
establishing his own conclusions, he has found in Fraulein
von B. a percipient of unusual powers with whom it would be
interesting to try further experiments.
The Unhioicn Guest. By Maurice Maeterlinck. Translated by
Alexander Teixeira de Mattos. Meihuen & Co., London,
1914. 340 pp. Price 5s. net.
M. Maeterlinck's new volume is a continuation of his studies
of the mysteries of life which were begun in the essay on Death, and
is itself to be followed by a discussion of ''the miracles of Lourdes
and other places, the phenomena of so-called materialization, of
the divining rod, and of fluidic asepsis." The present instalment
contains, in addition to a short introduction, essays on Phantasms
of the Living and the Dead, Psychometry, the Knowledge of the
Future, The Elbeifeld Horses, and the Unknown Guest, of which
the first two have not been published before, while the others have
recently appeared in magazines, and one "f them, that on the
Elberfeld horses, has been noticed in this -Journal for July, 1914,
p. 271. The whole work is very readable and suggestive, and will
appeal the more strongly to members of the S.P.R. that its tone is
uniformh' appreciative of the Society's work, which is constantly
H. DE G. V.
REVIEW.
.A
Jan., 1915. 15
quoted as authoritative, and even as more conclusive than perhaps
it claimed to be. It is a very real impediment to progress in
Psychical Research that when men first read the extensive
literature on the subject and realize how much better than they had
expected the evidence is, they should at once treat as established
fact the less anomalous phenomena, such as "telepathy," and use
them to speculate about the more anomalous, in ways that are
often ingenious, but necessarily insecure. Whereas in fact we do
not understand save where we can control, and cannot discover
what is the nature of the phenomena labelled "telepathic" until
we can produce them with sulficient certainty to subject them to
continuous experimentation.
M. Maeterlinck also seems too ready to go ahead in this
incautious manner, and one cannot but deprecate such statements
as that " it is by this time incontestable that a violent or deep
emotion can be transmitted instantaneously from one mind to
another . . . and as the most violent emotion which man can
undergo is that which grips and overwhelms him at the approach
or at the very moment of death, it is nearly always this supreme
emotion which he sends forth and directs with incredible pre-
cision [!] through space, if necessarj' across seas and continents,
towards an invisible and moving goal" (pp. 17-18). If so, our
present calamities should generate so abundant a crop of telepathic
phantoms as to render Psychical Research a must powerful agency
for peace, by convincing even the most sceptical and materialistic
nations that they cannot get rid of their enemies by killing them.
But unfortunately there seem to be no signs that Psychical Research
will not suffer as severely as the other spiritual interests of humanity
from the Ragnaroh of European civihzation.
Similarly M. Maeterlinck seems quite willing to accept the
existence of "mediums" as an ultimate fact and point of de[>arture
foi' his theories (p. 43), and to assume that there is no difficulty
about finding capable and trustworthj' representatives of their
class {e.g. pp. 58, 78). Such has not by any means been the experi-
ence of our Society, and until "mediums" are as plentiful and
procui-able as blackberries, they and their mentality should surely
be regarded as a difficult psychological problem deserving of the
most careful examination.
M. Maeterlinck proceeds to use the existence of telepathy and of
mediums as premisses in his theorizings about the supra-personal
and supernatural "subconsciousness" which he calls the "unknown
guest" who occasionally crosses the threshold of our normal life,
and whom he greatly prefers to the spiritistic interpretation of
the data. That his speculations are eloquent and interesting no
reader will denj% though Maeterlinck himself would no doubt
confess the enormous difficulty of penetrating the enveloping mystery
and obtaining anj^ definite conclusions from facts so shadowy and
conceptions so inchoate as those he is forced to rely on. From
the standpoint of purely scientific Psychical Research, however, one
feels that it is still premature to theorize except in the most
16 JouTVdl of;}?(k;ieiy for Pft,yjchJUcd Besearch. Jan., 1915.
tentative manner, and that it is a pity that in his eagerness to
advance M. Maeterlinck should pass so lightly over what appear
to be some highl}' important experiences of his own. In his essay
on " Psychometry " (p. 52 f.) he mentions a visit of his wife to
a " M— " to ask her, on the basis of a scrap of paper which
was in his handwriting but gave no other clue, what he was doing.
The psychometrist at once declared that he was far away in a
foreign country, examining horses with an absorbed and tired air.
He was in fact on his visit to the Elberfeld horses, though not
actually investigating them at the time of the sitting. Even more
striking is the story on pp. 56-7 of the same medium's description
of the unknown writer of a letter asking M. Maeterlinck for his
autograph. In this case we are merely assured that "on enquiry,
all the details were found to be astonishingly accurate"; but surely
this astonishing accuracy excites the reader's curiosity and would be
enormously convincing. If, then, the correspondence which established
it has been preserved, as one must presume, it should be published
in extenso. The Editor of this Journal would no doubt be delisrhted
to do so.
F. C. S. Schiller.
THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
The Jo\mial of the American Society for Psychical Research,
November, 1914, contains the announcement of the appoint-
ment of an Assistant to Professor Hyslop, who has hitherto
carried on the work of the Society singlehanded. The new
Assistant is Mr. Edwin W. Friend, who graduated from Har
vard University in 1908, and was, at the time of his appoint-
ment, acting as Assistant in the Department of Philosophy.
His services, it is hoped, will relieve Professor Hyslop of the
ofl&ce work of the Society and leave him free for scientific
investigations.
The same issue of the Journal contains the gratifying state-
ment that the Endowment Fund has recently been increased
by the contribution of ^3,000, and—though not yet reaching
the amount desired—is at least sufficient to ensure the exist-
ence of the Society. It is satisfactory that, in spite of the
difficulties and discouragements which beset a young organiza-
tion, it has secured a permanent endowment and the means to
provide for the continuance of its scientific work in the future.
That this successful accomplishment is due to Professor Hyslop's
energy, perseverance, and untiring zeal in the cause of psychical
research, no one will be disposed to deny.
No. CCCXVI —Vol. XVII. February, 1915.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTICNTS.
PARE
New Members and Associates, IT
Annual General Meeting of Members, 17
Meetings of the Council, 18
General Meeting, - - 19
Report of the Council for the year 1914, - - 19
Account of Receipts and Expenditure for 1914, 26
Endowment Fund for Psychical Research, Account for 1914, 27
Note on the English Sittings with Miss Tomczyk. By the Hon. Everard Feilding,- 28
To Members and Associates of the Society for Psychical Researcli, - - - - 32
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Mevibers are printed in Black Type.
Nam.es of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Wilkinson, Miss Milisent, c/o The Royal Bank of Queensland,
31 Budge Row, London, E.G.
Cairns, The Rev. David S., D.D., 62 Hamilton Place, Aberdeen.
Davies, Miss M. H. Lloyd, Lynton, Curzon Road, Hoylake.
De Wyckoff, Joseph, The Croft, Greville Place, London, N.W.
FooTE, Mrs. H. R., Harewood House, Hanover Square, London, W.
ScHAAl', A. E., 55 North Clinton Street, Poughkeepsie, N.Y., U.S.A.
Seton-Karr, Captain H. W., 8 St. Paul's Mansions, Hammersmith,
London, W.
Shaw, Arnold E., Grove House, Aspley Guise, Beds.
Thompson, W. R., Zoological Laboratory, Cambridge.
Ward, David S., Sedan House, Harrogate.
Wrangham, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, Wandsworth, London, S.W.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Societv was
held at 20 Hanovei Square, London, W., on Friday, January
29th, 1915, at 3.30 p.m. ; The President, Dr.
'
F. C. S.
Schiller, in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W.
Baggally, Sir W. F. Barrett, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Sir
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1915.
William Crookes, Sir Lawrence Jones, Miss S. M. Kingsford,
Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, Miss F. E. Scatcherd, Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Rev. C. Drayton Thomas,
Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also Miss Alice
Johnson, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Report of the Council for the year 1914 was read, and
is printed below. The audited account of income and expendi-
ture for the year 1914 was presented and taken as read, and
is also printed below.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members of
the Council offered themselves for re-election. No other nomi-
nations having been received, the following were declared to be
duly elected Members of the Council : the Right Hon. Gerald
W." Balfour, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Dr. W. M'Dougall, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Sir Joseph J. Thomson.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 132nd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, January 29th, 1915, at 3 p.m. ;
The President, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, in the chair. There
were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggallv, Sir W. F. Barrett,
Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Sir William Crookes, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. H.
Ai'thur Smith, Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and Dr. V. J. Woolley;
also Miss Alice Johnson, Research Officer, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Report of the Council was considered for the year 1914.
The 133rd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, January 29th, 1915, im-
mediately after the Annual General Meeting ; Dr. F. C. S.
Schiller in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W.
Baggally, Sir W. F. Barrett, Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Sir William
Crookes, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, Mrs. A. W. Verrall,
and Dr. V. J. Woolley ; also Miss Alice Johnson, Research
Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the 131st Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The proceedings of the Annual General Meeting were reported.
Feb., 1913. Meetings of the Council. 19
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., was elected President of
the Society for the year 1915.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick and the Hon. Everard Feilding, Hon. Secre-
taries ; and Mr. Arthur Miall, Auditor, for the current year.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1915 : the Eev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. G. Lowes
Dickinson, Professor L. P. Jacks, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr.
T. W. Mitchell, Mr. A. F. Shand, Dr. V. J. Woolley, and Dr.
M. B. Wright.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Eight Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Miss Jane Barlow, Sir William F. Barrett,
Sir William Crookes, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. W. Leaf,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Lord Rayleigh, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, and Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
Library Committee : The Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
House and Finance Committee : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, and Mr. H. Arthur Smith.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected
for the year 1915.
One new Member and ten new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for December, 1914, were presented
and taken as read.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 144th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Robert Barnes Hall of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1 Wim-
pole Street, London, W., on Friday, January 29th, 1915, at
5 p.m. ; Dr. F. C. S. Schiller in the chair.
Mr. J. G. Piddington read a paper entitled " Cross-Corre-
spondences of a Gallic Type," which will, it is hoped, be
published later in the Proceedings.
REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1914.
Considering the present state of public aifairs, it will not be a
matter for surprise that we have to report some decrease in
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1915.
membership at the end of this year. Dm-iug the year 23
new Members (including one Corresponding Member; were
elected, and 2 Associates became Members ; 62 new Associates
were elected, and 1 Member became an Associate. On the other
hand, the total loss in numbers, from resignations, deaths and
other causes, was 29 Members (including one Corresponding
Member) and 90 Associates, making a net decrease of 31.
The total membership is now 1212, the numbers being dis-
tributed as follows : Members, 286 (including 27 Honorary and
Corresponding Members) ;
Associates, 926 (including 11 Honorary
Associates).
These figures, with the corresponding ones of previous years,
have been analysed in order to discover how far the decrease
may reasonably be attributed to the war. During the five
years, 1909 to 1913 inclusive, the average number of autumn
elections of Members and Associates was 53, whereas this year
it was only 31. Further, the average number of resignations
during the previous five years for the period August to Decem-
ber was 30, whereas this year it was 41. The figures are even
more striking if we omit the year 1912, which happened to be
a comparatively unprosperous one for the Society. In that
case, the average number of autumn elections is found to be
56, as against 31 this year ; while the average number of
resignations is 26, as against 41 this year.
The number of elections this year before the war was 53,
which is up to the average of the corresponding period for the
last three years, though below the average (69) for the last
five years, 1909 and 1910 having been unusually prosperous
years.
Further evidence of the effect of the war on our numbers
is to be found in the letters of resignation received. As
usual, a large proportion (38 out of 75) give no reason for
resigning ; of the other 34, 8 state specifically that it is due
to the war, while 10 others, who allude to reduced circum-
stances or the urgency of other claims on them, probably mean
the same thing. If so, the war accounts for half the number of
resignations out of those who mention any reason for their
resigning. Other reasons given are such as ill-health (7 cases),
inability to attend meetings, going abroad, etc. The majority
express regret for having to resign, and 8 say that they hope
to rejoin later ; in only 3 cases out of the total of 75 is
Feb., 19] 5. Report of the Council for the Year 1914. 21
mention made of any dissatisfaction with the methods of the
Society or the results of its work.^
In connection with the war, it may be of interest to add
the figures of membership in the European countries outside
our own. Thev are as follows :
TfyQiipp _ _ _ - 19
xvUssia - - - - 9
XjCi^lUili _ _ - 1
Germany i. i
Austria-Hungary - 6
^ Holland - - - - 12
Italy and Sicily 8
Norway - - - - 3
Denmark 2
Spain - - - - 2
Sweden - - - - 1
Switzerland - 1
Portugal - - _ 1
Rcumania - - - 1
Total - 77
Publications continue to be sent to most of our members
in France and Russia, as well as in the neutral countries,
and it is hoped that communication will be resumed with those
in Germany and Austria as soon as the war is over. We
have had several requests from members at the front to send
the publications there, and a letter from a medical man with
the Fleet, who seems to have some leisure for reading and
opportunities for observation, asking us to send him information
about the best books on psychical subjects and hypnotism.
The drop in membership of course involves some decrease
in the income of the Society, and it is natural that the receipts
1 One member expresses disapproval of the Society's present methods ;
another says " I cannot follow the present recondite investigations of the
Society with mucli interest, as they are so very complicated, and tlie Council
show such a very strange timidity in publishing any authoritative conclusions
on any subject." The third writes that he has been disappointed in his hope
of learning from the Society the art of investigating psychical phenomena,
but that he has not lost his interest in the subject and hopes to be able some
time to send contributions both of money and information.
2 Including Mr. Cort van der Linden, who is at present Prime Minister
of Holland.
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1915.
from the sale of publications—one of our minor sources of
income—have also fallen off. During the second half of the
year the sale of publications through our London agent to
persons not belonging to the Society brought in a net profit
of £13 lis. 6d., whereas the average for the second half of
the previous four years was £37. On the other hand, the sale
of publications for the first half of the year realised a profit of
£27 6s. 3d., as compared with an average for the first half
of the preceding four years of £25 10s. Again, the sales of
publications to members since the war began up to the end
of the year amounted to £4 12s. 9d., whereas the average
receipts for the corresponding period during the five previous
years amounted to £16 10s. 2d.
The Society, however, has considerable reserves in its Endow-
ment Fund and other investments, so that no anxiety is felt as
to its financial position. Nevertheless, in view of the present
decrease in income, members may be reminded that subscrip-
tions are due on January 1st in every year.
In regard to the more important question of work done
by the Society, a certain amount of the time and energy
ordinarily spent on psychical research is naturally being diverted
into other channels. Thus, Mr. Feilding has accepted an
appointment on the Naval Press Bureau ; Dr. M'Dougall has
gone to the front in charge of a motor-ambulance, and
Mr. E. N. Bennett is taking command of a Red Cross con-
tingent which is being sent out from England to Serbia.
In regard to the Special Hospital for officers suffering from
nervous shock, the scheme for which was mentioned in the
December Journal, and which has now been started at a large
house in Kensington, it is interesting to note that five out
of the twenty-two medical men who have offered their services
free to it are members of the Council, and three others belong
to the Society, which has thus at the outset associated with it
more than one-third of the whole medical staff of the Hospital.
Turning to the more normal activities of the Society, we may
observe that the extra room which was added to the office at
the beginning of the year has proved of use in many ways.
The Assistant Research Officer has been able to carry on her
work there without the constant interruptions that were inevi-
table in the Library, and the room has also been in frequent
use for interviews and for purposes of experiment. In most of
Feb., 1915. Report of the Council for the Year lOl-t. 23
the experiments in telepathy that are carried on at the Kooms,
it is arranged for the agent to be in one room and the per-
cipient in another, and both rooms have, of course, to be kept
quiet and free from disturbance for the time being. Though
telepathic phenomena seem to occur fairly often, it is well
known that they can only be experimentally demonstrated in
rare cases, so that much of the time spent in such experiments
is inevitably fruitless, producing merely negative results. Among
a number of sets of experiments, however, tried during the last
two years, a considerable proportion of successful results were
obtained with two experimenters, the Misses Tipping, and a
report on these by Miss Verrall was read at a meeting of the
Society in November and will appear later in the Proceedings.
Another advantage of the extra room has been the greater
accommodation thereby afforded in the Library for people who
wish to read or consult books and periodicals there, and the
Library has in consequence been used a good deal more this
year, though readers have fallen off again since the outbreak
of war.
A useful piece of work, which has been on hand for some
time. Vol. IL of the Combined Index to the Proceedings and
Journal, has been completed and published this year. The
first volume of this Index, covering the first 15 volumes of
Proceedings and the first 9 volumes of the Journal, was pub-
lished ten years ago. The second volume continues the series
down to Vol. XXVI. of Proceedings and to Vol. XV. of the
Journal inclusive, and in view of the increasing complexity of
the reports on the work of the Society, is likely to prove even
more useful than the first. The Index was prepared by Miss C.
Burke and carefully revised by the Sub-Editor.
Study of the automatic scripts, which continue to be pro-
duced, has gone on steadily throughout the year, and three
reports on them have appeared in the Proceedings published
dm-ing 1914. Mrs. Sidgwdck has also been for some time
engaged in an examination of all the available records, both
pubhshed and unpublished, of Mrs. Piper's trance phenomena,
from the point of view of finding what light is thrown bv
them on the psychology of her trance. A paper giving a
general account of this investigation was read at a meeting of
the Society in January, and Mrs. Sidgwick's full report is now
being printed for the Proceedings.
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1915.
During the year we had the pleasure of a visit from Dr.
Morton Prince, who read a paper to a meeting of the Society.
A number of reviews of psychological and other work done
abroad have been contributed to the Proceedings and Journal
by Dr. Schiller and Dr. Woolley. Several of these related to
reports on the " thinking animals " whose performances have
excited so much interest in recent years, and with whom
Dr. Woolley and Mr. Bullough experimented last year at
Elberfeld. But this is another of the possible lines of investi-
gation which are blocked for the present ; it has indeed been
rumoured that the " thinking horses " have gone to the front.
During the summer a series of ex].)eriments was conducted
with the Polish medium, Miss Stanislawa Tomczyk, in whose
presence telekinetic phenomena are said to occur. Her
performances had not only been favourably reported on by
Dr. Ochorowicz, of Warsaw, and some other scientific men on
the Continent, but had also much impressed Mr. Feilding,
who had had opportunities of observing them at Warsaw and
at Munich. The Council invited Miss Tomczyk to come to
London, and appointed a Committee of investigation, con-
sisting of Mr. Feilding, Mr. Baggally, Mrs. Sidgwick, Miss
Verrall, Dr. Woolley, and two friends of Mr. Feilding's, Mr. S.
Cowper-Coles (an electrical metallurgist with expert knowledge
of photography) and Mr. Mark Barr (an electrical expert), to
take charge of the sittings.
Eleven sittings in all were held between June 2 and July 13,
1914, but unfortunately only inconclusive results were obtained.
During part of the period the medium's health was not good,
which probably accounted for the fact that several sittings
were almost entirely blank. At the others slight phenomena
were observed of the type usually associated with Miss Tomczyk,
that is, movements of small objects without any apparent
contact. The most striking incident was one witnessed at the
fourth sitting, on June 11th, 1914, when a small celluloid ball
was levitated to a height of about 9 inches above the table
(the medium's hands being about a quarter of an inch from the
ball on either side), coming down again almost at once.
The conditions of " control " were those habitually used at
Miss Tomczyk's sittings, as described below in Mr. Feilding's
Note (see p. 28) ;
but, owing to the slight nature of the
phenomena and their desire not to discourage the medium at
Feb., 1915. Report of the Council for the Year 1914. 25
the outset, the Committee were not able to impose such
conditions as they would have thought completely satisfactory.
It may, however, be said that no evidence of fraud was.
obtained and the Committee consider that there is undoubtedly
still a case for investigation.
At the end of the year. Miss Verrall was invited to give
a course of lectures once a week on psychical research during
the Lent Term, 1915, to the third-year students in psychology
at King's College, University of London, where she has for
some time been assisting in the Demonstrations in Psychology.
Dr. William Brown, the head of the psychological department at
King's College, London, has obtained a commission in the R.A.M.C.,
and Miss VerralFs course has been arranged to take the place of
some of the lectures that he would have given . In it she will
attempt to give a general view of the various lines of enquiry pur-
sued in psychical research and of the results so far obtained,
considering them especially from a psychological standpoint.
This is believed to be the first time that any such course
has been delivered in an English University.
Mention may incidentally be made of the new London Medico-
Psychological Clinic, which was opened in October, and an
account of which appeared in the December Journal. This
has, of course, no connexion with the Society, but so much
has been done through the work of the S.P.R. both to advance
knowledge and to arouse interest in hypnotic and allied states
from a psychological as well as a therapeutic point of view,
that new developments of this kind under the direction of
properly qualified persons are always especially welcomed by
the Council. Six members of the medical staff of the Clinic
belong to the S.P.R., and the Chairman of the Board of
Management is a member of our Council. We have already
found occasion to send to the Clinic several persons who have
come to the S.P.R. Rooms for advice and help in regard to
mental or nervous symptoms.
Five Meetings of the Society were held during the year.
The dates and subjects of the papers read were as follows
:
^January 30th. " On the Psychology of the Piper
Trance," by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
March 27th. "Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence of
Personal Survival," by the Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour.
* Those marked with an asterisk were General Meetings.
1 0000'^£>i-lOO«^OOOOOOCOO'* CI o o o kO
1—1 1—1
1—1 1—
1
I—
1
r-1
o 1>^ oooi>c;<©o-^ii^'-HOOCii>.cooi>c-'-' lO .H O o IN
i-H 1—li—1 ,-H,-Hr-ii—.7—1 >—ll—1 rH T-H r-l
I> 00 00 COOO-^OHACOOOOOCDOCO-^COr-iCO^DL^ oooo -t CO
CO C: 00 ^ rH (>JClCO 1-1 i-H OJ o (M
CO CD .-H (M r-C o »—
1
T-t
c+1
oS
coo 00 rH OOOO
I> CO oooo
T-H T-H
Ci O O CI -tH
OiCO o o ^ o
CO rH rH
a
a
^ ° <u .
FM o g
S H J>
S s p< o
-3
Ills'
c
t« ..
to 0^
cq
Oo
•Sf
r- y
•^
" O
X. %
OS
„ „, c c _
^ a, :3 O
wi T ^ o
3 J3 P
s
,
f-i 3
o ^
•a
: c
- "a
as S
rt <i>
3
'2 «J
1^ St3
m a
1
3 a>.S £
'3
i 3 o
3
o
So*-'
•° ,H m "
oj o ^ Ert
OS 0
CO o o oooo C'lOO o
rH o lOO ooo rH C-] O CD CD 01
rH rH rH rH rH rH rH rH
CO X CO rH rH iC O CO (MO (M O CO
o 00 CO C4 o o (M O
00 rH rH 00 CO r-t
ci
O
o
i-l 3
S
S
" 3 g 3 g
a3o"j=-0
CDOl O O' O CDqO O
C-10 tH CO O i-O
I> -^o CIO 'd' CD
00 C^ CD rH C+t C) COC-I
00
c*l
CD CO ^
CO CD rH
rH rH
»n r-i Ol
CO CD
C+1
CO ^ i-O
T-H i-i r-(
O Oi 05
.s-g
(>1 CO ^'f^
^ "-H ^ lis
<^ 2 J;*
^
S o;
-r- a^ ci
3
I
o)
-13
^ 3
ci o
a
- (D
t—I +3
03
3 3
«30
2i
•S M '
oH
3 ,
O t-i
o a
-<s
,
2 3^
+3 (D 2:
tn B
OJ CD M
^Jhh^
-^^^
a
fZ2
m
O
curb's !"o
S"* s 3-^
CD a
J, (S = 0)
o) > -a S ri3
<^ OJ
G> a> o
Ph cd « ib
-°«>„-«^^
^ o & ^ ^
= §
M p4 s ,^
cj --.5.2 tu -.
o ^ CI a >" M >^
_j l-H HH -s
5 O ^ ^ 03 .2 tS
^ C JO OJ rr^ O
d ce ^
a h:1 W &P O w O
O O O O O "-I o
o o o o o o o
O CO O O lO CO I--
CD cn o to lO o
C-1 CI O
T-A^ T-4 I—
""^^ rH
« « « crt
CO
(D
1^'
Ci (M
CO to iO
c+i CO
+3 i-
I—I o OJ
lO to
O M
J- O M e5 ^
o o ^ ^ ""^
O O S ^ CI 00
1-^ CO ^ -H d C4J
3 a
c rt
o
§
o o
° J
9 a
3 S
a.
3
1
o i -
O
.0 (U
rt to
OS
O
a,
o
0 CI IC
0 CO 0 CO
T-H I—
I
1^
(M CO >—
I
(M
CO T-H i-H to
«5
CO
0)
;2
a
P^ Ph pq
to
CO CI o
1-1 CI o
000
'CO O
CI CI r-t
C4j
00'
o a
OJ ^ o
0 S £.
^ o
1= 3 -s
.S o a
.5 ^ S.
"ts ^ S*
pq mP^
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1915.
*April 24th. " Certain Spiritistic Phenomena and Sub-
conscious Activities," by Dr. Morton Prince.
*June 29th. " Presidential Address," by Dr. F. C. S. Schiller.
November 20th. " Some Experiments in Thought-
Transference," by Miss Helen de G. Verrall.
NOTE ON THE ENGLISH SITTINGS WITH MISS
TOMCZYK.
By the Hon. Everard Feilding.
Eleven sittings in all were held between June 2 and July 13^
1914. Although I do not propose to submit here a detailed
report of the proceedings, which may perhaps be dealt with
later in complete form, it may be of interest to give some
description of them. An interesting feature concerning this
medium is that neither by herself nor by Dr. Ochorowicz, who
has closely studied her for several years, are the phenomena
which are stated to occur in her presence attributed to spirit
action. They consist of two classes, viz. : first, phenomena of
the so-called " poltergeist " type, many of which I have seen.
These occur spontaneously and generally unexpectedly in her
normal state, and include raps, movements of tables and chairs
without apparent contact, throwings or transportations of
objects about the house in which she is living, frequently in
her own proximity, but also often in places apparently beyond
her normal reach, such as outside the room in which she is, or
even in another room the door of which is shut. Secondly,
phenomena produced experimentally and deliberately when the
medium is in a quasi-somnambulistic condition, or, more exactly
speaking, in a secondary state bearing all the characteristics of
a complete dual personality, somewhat similar to that of
" Sally " in the case of Miss Beauchamp reported by Dr.
Morton Prince and well known to most members of the Society.
It is only by long-continued observation that any conclusions
can be reached regarding the first class of phenomena, but the
second class (which, so far as I know, are peculiar to this
medium) appeared, from reports received, capable of satisfactory
investigation, and it was to these that the Committee confined
its attention. The procedure is as follows. The secondary
personality having been first induced by hypnosis, the medium,
* Those marked with an asterisk were General Meetings.
Feb., 1915. Note on the English Sittings with Miss Tomczylc. 29
who usually wears a blouse with short sleeves, submits herself
to examination in full light ; that is, her arms and hands and
dress, as well as the table, which is bare, are carefully scruti-
nised for the purpose of ascertainincr that no hair or thin wire,
by which means alone it would seem that the effects which
follow could be produced fraudulently, are present or accessible.
After the examination she remains with her hands well extended
on the table in front of her without, so far as the closest
observation of the Committee could determine, ever finding an
opportunity of picking up any such aid. It is, indeed, mainly
to prevent such an opportunity that the observation is sub-
sequently directed. Since, however, it is necessary to reduce
the light to a degree of brilliancy sufficient, indeed, to see the
position of the hands \Tiith complete clearness, but insufficient to
make certain of seeing a hair between the medium's hands if
there were one, it is a matter of individual opinion, on which
the members of the Committee were not united, as to whether
such observation, extended over a sitting lasting perhaps two
hours or more, can ever be adequate to justify a positive
statement that no such opportunity presented itself.
She remains with her hands on the table, and generally
joined, for a time varying from about five minutes to a half
or three-quarters of an hour, until she reports feeling the
" current," which she says shows itself by a prickling sensation
in the tips of her fingers. She then asks for some small object
to be placed on the table between her hands. It is im-
material what object is chosen provided it is not too heavy,
but the objects usually chosen are celluloid balls of different
sizes, from that of a marble to that of a billiard ball, a
cigarette, matchbox, small aluminium box, spoon, etc. She
places her hands on each side of the object, with her fingers,
sometimes open and sometimes joined, pointing inwards towards
it at a distance of from \ inch to 3 or 4 inches on each side.
Presently the object is seen to move about on the table ; if a
ball, running to and fro ; if a long object such as a cigarette,
changing its angle of inclination or lifting at one end ; if a
box, sliding short distances and occasionally turning over.
Should the " force," whatever it may be, be manifesting satis-
factorily, the experiment terminates by the medium lifting her
hands from the table, when the object also is lifted to a
height varying from 6 inches to about \\ feet.
30 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1915.
This is the only type of experiment which I have myself
witnessed, but it by no means covers the range of phenomena
reported by Dr. Ochorowicz and others, who have had longer
opportunities of studying the case. These include the produc-
tion of lights, effects produced without contact on photographic
plates in the dark or in red light, or on a galvanometer,
sudden precipitation of chemical substances held in solution,
and vision through an opaque screen. It would appear that
the power alternates from one class of phenomena to another,
each class occurring during a period when the others are not
exhibited.
I had already visited the medium twice in Warsaw, and had
also attended a few experiments conducted with her in January
and February, 1914, by Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing. The suc-
cessful production of her phenomena seems to depend upon
the general condition of the medium, who is subject to positive
and negative periods. My first visit to Warsaw in 1912 was
during an almost entirely negative period, and though slight
indications of some apparently supernormal force were per-
ceptible, its action was irregular and very small. Having been
informed later that a positive period had again set in, I returned
to Warsaw at Christmas, 1913, and at the series of experiments
which then took place, as well as at a subsequent series a
few weeks afterwards in Munich, the effects were produced
with great regularity, the conditions being precisely the same
as those which prevailed in London.
At the series held in London the phenomena proved, unfor-
tunately, far less striking, though far better than those which
I saw at my first visit to Warsaw. Not only were the move-
ments as a rule small, but they were also of rare occurrence,
seldom more than three or four in a sitting which might last
two hours. There was only one complete lifting of any object,
viz. of a celluloid ball, at the fourth sitting, and the last two
or three sittings were entirely blank. Any definite experimental
observation of the " force," such as by varying the conditions,
interposing fresh obstacles to possible fraud, and so forth, was
in the circumstances impossible, and the most that can be said
is that the Committee as a whole were unable either to con-
vince themselves that their precautions against fraud were
adequate, or, on the other hand, to point to any indications that
fraud had been employed.
Feb., 1915. Note on the English Sittings ivith Miss Tomczyk. 31
On the assumption that the medium is possessed of some
supernormal force, the comparative lack of success in London
can be accounted for by the supposition that she was entering
upon another (the third or fourth in her history) negative
period, and that the " force " was already waning when the
experiments started and ultimately entirely disappeared. Since
the termination of the official sittings, I have made a large
number of experiments privately, but at two only, at intervals
of many months, has any success been obtained.
On the other hand, there have been a great quantity of
phenomena of the " poltergeist " type, occurring in cycles of
activity and quiescence, succeeding one another. As phenomena
of this kind are most difficult to control, it is impossible to
adduce evidence which would satisfy any one who was not a
constant witness of them, and at present, at all events, I shall
not refer to these further than to suggest that should further
experimentation in the other kind of manifestations show a
better measure of success in conditions which absolutely pre-
clude any explanation except that of a supernormal faculty,
the a priori improbability of a supernormal agency in the
" poltergeist " class also would be greatly reduced.
As already stated, a spiritistic origin of both classes is
disbelieved in by the medium, who, no doubt influenced by
the views of Dr. Ochorowicz, is disposed to attribute them to
an emanation of some unknown kind of energy from her
nervous system. It may be of interest to add, in support
of her contention, that the production of a " phenomenon,"
either in her normal or secondary condition, is almost invariably
followed within a few minutes by a kind of collapse suggesting
a sudden depletion of nervous energy and in which she falls
instantaneously insensible, sometimes with rather disastrous
consequences, such as tumbling backwards down half a flight
of stairs, or striking her head violently against the furniture.
It is rash to speculate on insufficient data, but should Miss
Tomczyk's claims ever come to be regarded as satisfactorily
proved, viz. that, as I believe, she has a supernormal force and
that this force is in the nature of a discharge of energy from
her own organism, it may be that we have here a basis for the
explanation of a great part, if not the whole, of the so-called
physical phenomena of spiritualism.
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb., 1915.
TO MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE SOCIETY
FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
The Society for Psychical Researcii is anxious to try experi-
ments of various kinds, hypnotic and other, with a view to
obtaining further evidence either of telepathy or of hyperaesthesia.
In the case of hypnotic experiments, the hypnotist would be one
of our own medical members, experienced in work of this kind.
In order to carry out this purpose effectively, it is necessary
that a considerable number of persons should be available who
are willing to act as " subjects." It would be an advantage
to have subjects who have already shown signs of some automatic
•or telepathic faculty, or who are responsive to hypnotic suggestion,
but these are not essential qualifications, since it is always possible
that in the course of experiments, some hitherto undiscovered
faculty will be brought to light.
Some experiments would almost necessarily, and many might
preferably, be conducted at the Rooms of the Society, but
some might equally well be carried out by people in their own
homes, provided that they kept careful records and observed
test-conditions. In all experimental work quantity, as well as
quality, is important, and we hope, therefore, that not only
will a considerable number of subjects present themselves^ but
that they will be willing to continue the experiments regularly,
say, once a week, for at least two or three months, should it
appear that interesting results are likely to be obtained.
If any of our members and associates are willing to take
part in these experiments, we should be much obliged if they
would write to the Secretary, stating what kind of experiments
they would prefer, and especially whether they are willing to
be hypnotised. We appeal first to members of the S.P.R.,
because we know that they take an interest in its work, but
we should, of course, welcome good subjects, whether members
or not.
It is impossible in this preliminary notice to describe in
detail the kind of experiments which it is proposed to try,
but as instances of earlier experiments which it would be
interesting to repeat, we refer our readers to Proceedings,
S.P.R., Vols. VI., p. 128; VIII., p. 536; XXL, p. 60; XXVII.,
p. 279 (telepathy) ; and Vol. XL, p. 182 (hyperaesthesia).
No. CCCXVII.—Vol. XVII. March, 1915.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
G 0 N T 15 N T S
.
PAGE
Investigation of a Haunted House in Worcestersliiie. By Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. 34
A Further Report of Mr. Griinbaum's Experiences. By Alice Johnson - - - 43
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On TUESDAY, MARCH 2Zrd, 191 5, ai 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
An Icelandic " Seer
"
WILL BE READ BY
Miss H. de G. VERRALL.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on sigfiing their na?nes at the door.
34) Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1915.
INVESTIGATION OF A HAUNTED HOUSE IN
WORCESTERSHIRE.
By Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Last July I received a letter from Mrs. Roberts (pseudonym)
giving me details of mysterious disturbances that had occurred
for some time past in their house in Worcestershire. The
house occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Robertas is quite in the country,
about two miles from a railway station : it stands back from
the road and has a large and beautiful garden around and
behind it. The house is a very old one of two stories, with
thick walls, and considerable alterations and additions had
been made by Mr. Roberts.
Mrs. Roberts's first letter is as follows :
July 1, 1914.
The facts are these :
We came to this house nearly three years ago, and although
it had the reputation of being haunted, we thought it was due
to the fact that there is a novel about a haunted house called
[name of house], and having no reference whatever to this house ;
and we thought nothing of it.
A few months ago, however, odd things began to happen.
One evening one of the maids went to do my room after I
had gone down to dinner, and was startled by hearing groans
coming from under my bed. She thought it was the dog, and
was walking towards the bed when she saw a figure emerge, and
distinctly heard its footsteps go round the room, out of the door,
and along the passage. She was too much frightened to pursue
it. The only people in the house at the time were my husband
and myself in the dining-room, my small children asleep in
bed, and the old cook iir the kitchen, who I think would have
been incapable of the agility that would have been necessary
if it had been any human being playing a trick. A few weeks
later a temporary maid (who heard nothing of this incident while
she was here) swore to hearing footsteps come into her room,
walk to the dressing-table, then come to the bed, and she thought
her bed was pushed against the one of the maid sleeping next
her. A light revealed nothing. The next night she again heard
footsteps walking up and down outside her room.
Mae., 1915. A Haunted House in Worcestershire. 35
About six weeks later my nurse was awoke one niglit by a
tremendous noise in tlie room below lier, which is the day nursery.
There were sounds as if the window was being pushed up and
down and the furniture of the room being thrown about. She
thought some one must have got into the house and she was
coming to call my husband, when the noises stopped. The next
night she heard loud groaning in the room overhead, the cook's
room, and thought she must be feeling ill, but next day the cook
said she had slept all through the night, and heard nothing
herself—though she constantly complains of noises, footsteps, and
occasionally says she feels her bedclothes being pulled.
Just lately things have got worse. My nurse (who is perfectly
cool-headed, and was most sceptical about the other incidents)
woke suddenly one night, then heard footsteps come into the room
and walk in a great hurry between her bed and my elder little
boy's, felt something brush past her head, then heard the foot-
steps hurry to the dressing-table, then back, and cease at the door.
During this time, and while the noise was still in the room, she
managed to strike a light, but there was nothing to be seen.
She was very much afraid, and described a feeling of there being
something there which one could not get by. A few nights
later the same thing occurred, but that time she had the feeling
of a hand being put on her throat, and of receiving a push.
That night she had a night-light burning, but saw nothing. She
also describes a noise like an iron bedstead being lacked, and
she heard this noise outside her door a few nights ago, when
nothing else happened. Since then she has heard groaning in
her room ; and on the same night, the cook heard noises and the
maid who saw the first apparition—and since then has experienced
nothing—was woke by the feeling of some one pushing her on the
shoulder. She thought it was the maid who shares her room
trying to wake her, but found that the maid was asleep and
there was no one else there.
My husband has since had much the same experience, accompanied
by a feeling of great stupor. He attributes it to indigestion !
If things go on at this rate all our servants will be leaving,
and it is altogether very unpleasant.
Can you, with your large experience, suggest any explanation
or cure ?
I much hope you will forgive me for troubling you with this
long letter. Even now there are details which I have left out.
A 2
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1915.
Writing to me again a week later, Mrs. Roberts says :
July 6, 1914.
I very mucli wisli you could come over and investigate these
mysterious phenomena, but I hardly like to press you to come
so far on the small chance of anything occurring when you are
here. The phenomena appear to centre round our cook ! She
is certainly not young, but although one or two mysterious
noises had been heard before she came, nothing really developed
till she had been here some weeks. She admits to having lived
in places before where similar things have happened, and my
hope is that when she leaves in a month's time the poltergeists
will leave with her !
I have just been told by my nurse that she heard noises again
last night—a loud yell being followed by bumping noises which
went on over a period of 1^ hours. Unfortunately she was too
much alarmed to come and call my husband and me.
If you think of coming, I think a week-end would be the best,
as Sunday is rather a favourite night.
There are one or two elements in our case which do not seem
quite to fit in with orthodox poltergeist behaviour, but as they
are things more difiicult to vouch for than the noises, I have
not felt able to lay stress on them ; but if you come, we can
discuss all this. I must, however, warn you once more of the
extremely erratic behaviour of the phenomena—sometimes dis-
appearing for weeks. Lately, however, not more than a week
has passed without something happening.
I arranged accordingly to go over and spend a week-end with
Mr. and Mrs. Roberts, to whom I am greatly indebted for
their kind hospitality and also giving me every assistance in
the investigations I made. During the time I was there I
took down the testimony of the different inmates of the house
who had personally experienced these abnormal disturbances.
The evidence in each case was given to me independently and
alone, and my cross-examination of the witnesses was cheerfully
submitted to, and did not shake the evidence.
Dorothy L., under-nurse and housemaid, said
:
I was in Mrs. Roberts's bedroom one Sunday evening last March
about 8 p.m.. when I heard a groaning under the bed ; it sounded
very like a dog moaning, and occurred twice over. There was a
bedroom lamp alight in the rooni but I saw nothing to account
Mar., 1915. A Haunted House in Worcestershire. 37
for the sound. Suddenly, as I was standing by the dressing-table,
I felt a hand placed on my chest and I was pushed over by the
pressure, back to the dressing-table. A moment later I saw a
figure, as if coming from under the bed, moving across the room
towards the door : I only saw the back of the figure, which was
tall, and white clothed. The figure went through the door out
of the room and I distinctly heard its footsteps on the landing
outside. I was so petrified that I was unable to stir for a minute
or two, and I was afraid of screaming, as it would have frightened
the children who were in bed in the adjoining room. As soon
as I recovered I rushed downstairs and told the cook what had
happened, and later on T told the head nurse, who informed
Mrs. Roberts.
At the time Dorothy saw the figure, Mr. and Mrs. Roberts
were at dinner in the dining-room, which was downstairs, but
not under this bedroom. The cook was at the moment engaged
in dishing-up the dinner. The head-nurse and parlour-maid
had gone to church, and that Sunday evening there was no
one else staying in the house. I enquired if there was a
dog on the premises, and found a dog was kept in the yard
outside, but not allowed in the house. On this occasion the
dog was not in the premises at all, for the head-nurse, as
was her custom, had taken the dog to accompany her to
church, where it waited outside till the service was over and
accompanied the nurse home. No other dog was kept, and
no stray dog was in the place.
On another occasion, about three weeks previous to my visit,
Dorothy said :
I was in bed and it was just getting daylight, when I woke
up with the sound of some one coming into the bedroom ; some-
thing crossed the room and came to my bedside and pushed me.
I did not see any figure, there was hardly light enough, but I
distinctly felt a push on my shoulder, and then it went away. I
lay awake till it was time to get up but nothing more occurred.
I am sure it was not a dream ; the parlour-maid was asleep in
her bed, adjoining mine, all the time. This is the last time the
" ghost " visited me.
I next examined the cook, an elderly person named Mrs. E.,
who said :
Dorothy on the Sunday came downstairs and told me of the
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, siar., 191
fright she had and the apparition she saw in Mrs. Roberts's bed-
room, but I could not believe her. However, a little while after-
wards I heard a groaning in my bedroom and the noise of some
one going out of the room, but I saw nothing. I was in bed
when the groaning woke me up ; the room was quite dark and
I was too frightened to stir or light the candle. Another night
I heard a stamping sound as if some one was walking heavily
across the room. This time I did get up and light the candle
and went outside on the landing : the time was 2 a.m. On at
least half a dozen other occasions I heard similar sounds after
midnight, but saw nothing. For the last week or two I have
heard nothing. When I lived with a family in the I. of Wight,
I also heard on several occasions curious noises which could
not be explained. The sounds were like some one smashing
crockery or moving furniture, and sometimes footsteps. These
sounds were also heard by my mistress and others and they were
much frightened and said it was dreadful. The family with whom
I lived in the I. of Wight have, I believe, now gone to New
Zealand.
The cook left the Isle of Wight to come to Mrs. Roberts
;
her bedroom is upstairs over the night-nursery, and she sleeps
alone. She told me she was perfectly sure no one was playing
a trick on her : and said she was certain some object was
standing by her bedside and uttering these groans, which woke
her up on the first occasion.
I next examined Ethel C, the nurse, a most intelligent and
respectable person about thirty years old. Ethel C. said :
Dorothy told me of the fright she had and the figure she had
seen on the Sunday evening on my return from church that
night. The date was March 22nd, as I put it down in my diary
immediately afterwards. At first I could not believe it, though
Dorothy declared it was perfectly true. The dog had gone with
me to church that evening, as it always does, for the church is
2>\ miles walk through country roads, and the dog goes as my
companion and waits outside the church till I come out, and
it did so on this occasion. Some time after this when I was in
bed in my room—the night nursery, which is over the day
nursery—J. heard the window of the room below suddenly thrown
open and then shut down again and the furniture Icnocked about
in the room below. I got up and lit my candle and found it
Mar., 1915. A Haunted House in Worcestershire. 39
was 1.30 a.m. I was too frightened to go downstairs by myself
and was going to call Mr. Roberts when the sound ceased, after
going on for nearly fifteen minutes. I then laid down again and
waited but nothing more occurred that night. The only other
persons in my bedroom were the two children, who were fast
asleep. When I got up in the morning early I went to the room
below and examined the room. Nothing was disturbed, the windows
were fastened and the door locked as usual.
On a subsequent occasion, June 15th last, the children being
asleep in their cots, and I myself had been asleep when I was
awoke by hearing heavy footsteps, as if made by a person with
hobnailed boots, coming into the room. The footsteps tramped
across the room towards the dressing-table. I was terrified but
managed to light the candle by my bedside and found it was
1.20 a.m. The perspiration was running off my forehead with
fear and I kept the candle alight, but no more sleep was possible
that night. I was really too frightened to get out of bed to call
Mr. Roberts and nothing further occurred that night. I am sure
the sound of the tramping did not come from some one walking in
the garden outside, for I felt the bed shaking with the heavy tread.
A week later when in bed in the same room, I heard groans
coming from some one standing near my bed, and then felt an
object brush past my head. I lit the candle, found it was 1.30
a.m. ; the children were fast asleep in their beds and there was
nothing to explain the sounds. The same night I heard a noise
outside my door as if some one was striking a metallic rod. I
laid awake but nothing else occurred.
A few days later, a horrible experience happened to me. I
had been in bed some time but was not asleep, when a hand
suddenly gripped my throat and another hand gripped the side
of my body. The grip on the throat was so violent that it hurt
but did not choke me. I managed to light the candle after a
few minutes and found it was 1.30 a.m. The children were fast
asleep and no one else was in the room. I am sure it was not
a nightmare. After that I always kept a light burning in my
room all night, and nothing like this experience happened again,
though I have heard unaccountable noises several times.
Mr. Roberts had fitted up an electric bell communicating
with his room from the nurse's bedside, and the Sunday night
before I arrived, July 12th, the nurse rang the bell. Mr..
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1915.
Roberts threw on a dressine-gown and ran to the room at
once. The nurse had heard heavy footsteps moving about
the landing outside the door. Mr. Roberts searched the whole
house but found nothing to account for them : he then sat
outside the room for some time but nothing else occurred that
night. On one occasion the nurse told me she was going
downstairs in the evening when some object was felt near her,
as if trying to stop her passing. She went back to her bed-
room, lit a candle, but could find nothing to account for it.
She assured me the noises could not be explained by any
hoax or natural cause, nor was her experience the result of
anything Dorothy had told her, for she had dismissed that
narration as absurd. She is not of a nervous disposition, as
is shown by her having had sole charge of the house and slept
alone in it for three weeks before the disturbances began.
Mrs. Roberts has neither heard nor seen anything super-
normal. Mr. Roberts on one occasion (I was informed) dis-
tinctly felt a presence as of some person brushing past him,
but could find nothing to account for it.
I examined every room in the house. The night nursery
was carpeted with thick felt and hardly any sound was made
when I walked across it. The nurse imitated the sound she
heard by stamping across the room from the door past her
bed to the dressing-table, and I noticed that the room shook
as she trod heavily. The house is old and the floors upstairs
shake when they are tramped across.
The room I slept in was opposite the night nursery on the
first floor, the doors facing each other across the wide landing.
An electric bell was temporarily fitted up by my bedside, and
the bell push by the nurse's bed in the room opposite ; the
doors were also left open during the night, and I remained
awake till 2.30 a.m. Nothing, however, occurred during the
whole time of my stay.
After I had left I received the following letter from Mrs.
Roberts :
August 6, 1914.
The night you left, July 20th, Ethel, in the nursery, and the
two maids who slept together upstairs, heard awful groaning
lasting 15-20 minutes, which seemed to go round the house—they all
confirm that.
Mar., 1915. A Haunted House in Worcestershire. 41
Last Sunday niglit, Aug. 2, I was sitting at dinner, late, about
9.15, as I liad not been able to leave my husband [who was
ill] sooner. Ethel rushed into the dining-room to say that she
had heard extraordinary noises apjjearing to come from the cellar,
when she was in the larder. I went to the larder, where Ethel
and Lester (my ci-devant children's nurse, who is staying here
now) were engaged in breaking up ice for my husband. All Avas
then quiet, and I went back to my dinner.
Shortly after Ethel came in again to say that they had heard
four loud noises like furniture being pushed about, and I went
out again.
This is the lie of the land there :
a
U.
o
1.
ffl
-1
Door Steps
up
Tom
tarder
Small-
landing
— "1 (
Door
Hall
I asked Lester if she would go down with me to inspect the cellar.
She said yes, and seized a lamp, and we were just starting
(leaving door into hall and larder open) when I heard my husband
coughing, and I rushed upstairs.
When I re-emerged about half-an-hour later, I found that
Lester had stayed where I left her, on the little landing at the
top of the cellar stairs, and shortly afterwards heard footsteps
coming up them. She shouted " What do you want ?
" and the
footsteps stopped, but the cook who was close by, and also heard
them, fainted from fright at this moment.
I then went and asked Lester and Ethel to come and inspect
the cellar with me. We did this thoroughly, and nothing human
was to be seen.
Last night (Aug. 5) Florence, the parlourmaid, woke suddenly
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1915.
about 3 a.m. to become aware of a dark form standing over her
bed, between herself and the window [which is near her bed on
the left hand side]. She described it as showing against the
window " darker than the night," and she could see the outUne
of protruding ears. She said her matches were by the bed, but
she dared not put out her hand for them, as slie felt she would
have had to put it through the figure. She shut her eyes and
did not open them for a long time, when she did all was as
usual. She heard nothing.
I have taken time to write all this in order that you may be
au courant and that the dates may be put down.
One other letter I had from Mrs. Roberts as follows :
Aug. 29, 1914.
Since Mrs. E., the cook, left on the 12th inst. we have had
" peace, perfect peace," as far as ghosts are concerned. Things
were very acute the last few days—and the two maids, Florence
and Dorothy, heard noises in Mrs. E.'s room one morning about
6.30, and thought at first it was Mrs. E. herself walking about,
and opening and shutting her tin box. It turned out, however,
when Dorothy went across to investigate, that the old lady had
gone downstairs.
Later in the day noises were heard in the larder when no one
was there, and footsteps on the stairs leading to the attics.
'
Mrs. E. said she saw a bright light flash through the larder,
and again she nearly fainted.
The very day of her departure the servants felt an entire change
of atmosphere in the house, and one by one commented on it.
Not a sound has been heard since.
It seems to me the queerest thing.
Ethel has just told me that for months she has been dreaming
that we were leaving this house, the dreams beginning before my
nurse left in February or the ghost trouble began.
In conclusion I may add that the landlord of the house
has been written to several times to enquire if previous tenants
had complained of any disturbances, but he had never given
any reply to this question until just before I left, when, in
answer to the question whether the previous tenant had seen
or heard any " ghost," he replied, nothing, so far as he knew,
had been heard or seen by previous tenants.
Mr. and Mrs. Eoberts gave up the house in the autumn, and
are now living elsewhere.
Mae., 1915. Report of Mr. Grunhaum's Experiences. 43
A FUKTHEE EEPORT OF MR. GRUNBAUM'S
EXPERIENCES.
By Alice Johnson.
In the last Part of the Proceedings two papers, by Dr. Woolley
and myself, were published on a series of hallucinatory im-
pressions experienced by one of our foreign members, there
called "Mr. Griinbaum." Many of these were the result
of suggestions deliberately made by Mr. Griinbaum to himself
in a state of self-induced hypnosis, or some condition of
a similar kind ; and though the hallucinations often diverged
considerably from his conscious intentions, he was generally
able to trace their variations to something that had recently
attracted his attention or had been in his mind. The account
showed clearly two points : (1) That Mr. Griinbaum is un-
usually liable to hallucinations ;
that is, that ideas which
with most of us remain merely ideas are in his case liable
to become externalised almost as vividly as if they had been
produced by sensations derived immediately from external
objects ; (2) that these hallucinations are undoubtedly sub-
jective ; that is, that their source can be traced to his own
mind, as Mr. Griinbaum himself has always recognised, and
as Dr. Woolley makes clear in his analysis of them.
Quite recently, however, one of these hallucinations has
coincided with the death by accident of a relative of Mr.
Griinbaum's in such a way as to suggest that this particular
case was, at least partially, telepathic in character, and the
suggestion is borne out by the fact that on the same night
Mr. Griinbaum's mother had a dream relating to the same
person. The hallucination was of the same type as many of
the previous ones, and showed many of their idiosyncrasies, so
that the coincidence between it and the death may, no doubt,
have been purely accidental. The case is further weakened
by the fact that Mr. Griinbaum did not mention it to any
one till after he had heard of the death. This is, however,
so far as I can remember, the first time that he has reported
to us any such coincidence with any of his experiences
;
it seems therefore very improbable that it is a case of illusion
of memory. Having known Mr. Griinbaum personally for
some years, I have every confidence that his statements
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mae., 1915.
can be depended on, and his reports are always characterised
by great care and precision.
It appears to me not improbable that a genuine telepathic
impression should take a form which the percipient's own
mental habits had made customary for him,—in other words,
as I suggested above, that this case may be telepathic, but
only partially telepathic. But even if nothing more than
a chance coincidence, it seems to me of interest.
1 was first informed of it in a letter from Mr. Grriinbaum
as follows :
January 17, 1915.
Two curious cases happened recently to me.
I.
At about the beginning of this month I came home one day
very tired and sat down in a chair in the back room. As I
feel that I can hardly keep my eyes open, I say to myself
:
" Get out of your body." Shortly afterwards my mother came
in from the hall and woke me up by saying :
" Come now,
what's the use of this ? Have you been walking up and down
in the corridor all the while ? I heard somebody walking up
and down, and coming out of the front room in the hall. I
found nobody there." The hall has a stone floor. I told her
that I had not done so.
II.
In the night of Tuesday, January 12th, shortly after I had
gone to bed, between 11 and 12 o'clock, I feel all at once a " brain-
squeeze " ^ accompanied by :
(1) a pain of horrid anxiety in my heart ;
(2) a vision of a black-rooted skull ^ with two big eye-holes.
This skull is enveloped in a very fine gauze of black
yarn.^
The thing startles me, and I call myself directly to order. Directly
afterwards I feel a slight trembling all through my body, accom-
panied by the low rwmbling sound. [Mr. Griinbaum had mentioned
^ Cf. the account of Mr Griinbaum's previous experiences, Proceedings,
Part LXIX., p. 403. The sensation is there described as a "club-blow."
—A. J.
2 I am utterly indifferent in regard to skulls.
^ Cf. op. cit. pp. 396-398, for other instances of visions seen through a
hallucinatory thin black veil or gauze.—A. J.
Mar., 1915. Report of Mr. Grunbaum's Experiences. 45
to me in a previous letter that a low rumbling sound sometimes
accompanied liis hallucinations.—A. J.] Then the indescribable
divine sensation comes on (as in my first phonograph experiment i)
and I find myself in a globe of opalescent light.
Therein I see the folloAving vision :
In front of me, and slightly to the left, there stands a long
curved blackish stick or rattan. On this long stick there stands
a skull ; it swings from right to left. The skull is phosphorescent.
At the same time the head of my cousin M., who lives in
the city W., is leaning towards me.
Then the head of my cousin begins to fade away and the
swinging skull takes the features of my cousin. There is no
flesh on the skull, but the phosphorescent skull takes the features
of my cousin in such a way that it shows a marvellous likeness
to him. It swings then to left and right, looks in a very friendly
way at me and moves away, still swinging, from the curved
stick, going very very slowly upwards. That is the end.
In the morning at breakfast we received a note from my
cousin, who lives here around the corner of the street, that
she had just received a telegram that her brother (my cousin
M.) had died.
Going to the funeral, I found that my cousin M. had been
run over by an express train at the railway station at W., where
he lives. He was killed on the spot, being so terribly injured
that it was only on account of the papers he had in his pocket
that he could be recognised. He had been taking leave of an
acquaintance and had brought him to the train. In order to
come home quickly to his wife, he walked round the train in
which his friend was, and was caught by the express that was
coming on behind his friend's train without his knowledge, and
this caused his sudden death.
When I consider this case from a psychological point of view,
I find myself facing a puzzle. First of all : the time is wrong.
The accident happened between 7 and 8 o'clock on Tuesday
night, and I saw the vision on the same night between 11 and
12 before going to sleep. How can this be explained ? And
then, I cannot suppose that my cousin was consciously thinking
of me at that terrible moment, as the time must have been
too short and he was on the way home to his wife, who was
waiting for him. I had not met with him for some thirty years.
1 Op. cit. p. 401.—A. J.
4() Journal of Society for Psychical Research, biae., 1915.
Then it is a curious thing that I saw nothing at all connected
with the idea of a train in my vision, because, if the poor
fellow had had any particular idea in his head at that terrible
moment, it must have been the idea of a locomotive and of his
wife.
Then there is still something else. There are at present a
couple of thousand people dying daily on the battlefields. I
have never seen anything at all about the war.
Why did this particular thing just reach me ? Might it perhaps
have been on account of his being a family relation ? But
why did only I see it ? And why only 4 hours later ?
There remains the curious point of the two different skulls
:
the black-smoky-black-rooted one and the bright phosphorescent
one. In the course of my own experiments I found many times
that a self-induced happy vision was preceded by a black-
smoky horrid one. But here it is exactly the reverse, in so far
that I regard the black-rooted horrid skull as the telepathic
impression [if it can be considered such). This was then followed
by the bright phosphorescent one.
But why the " brain-squeeze " ? Nobody (and certainly not
I) had been thinking about the possibility of such an accident
;
and, in fact, I had altogether forgotten about my cousin, as he
lives in another city. His marriage was a most happy one.
If this " brain-squeeze " had come at the moment that he
was run over, then one might be compelled to suppose that he
had been thinldng of me at that special moment, but I think
that is very unlikely.
I am really sorry that I did not speak about it to anybody
before the telegram was shown to us. Then I remarked to
my cousin that it would not surprise me "if he had died in the
beginning of the night." This is in fact all I said to her.
But you see, when once long ago I saw the vision of my nephew
S., he turned out afterwards to be remarkably well. So I did
not like to make people anxious all for nothing.
During these last two weeks I had not been experimenting
at all.
P.S.—Suppose a man gives himself a self-induced vision of
something horrid, would you think that it would then be pre-
ceded or followed by a white benevolent one ? Just as a happy
benevolent vision may be preceded by a black, smoky, horrid
one ? You see, I have many a time seen these two types
Mar., 1915. Revort of Mr. Grunbauvis Experiences. 47
together at tlie same time, tlie black smoky one alternating
with the white benevolent one.
In reply to my enquiries and request for any corroborative
evidence that might be obtainable, Mr. Griinbaum wrote
again :
February 3, 1915.
. . . With this letter I send you the following particulars :
(I.) The note announcing the death of my cousin, Mr. M., to
my cousin Mr. I., who is living here round the corner of the
street. My own note being lost, I include his note, as both
notes have been delivered by the same postman at the same
time, the post-ofiice being opposite to us.
The postmark shows that this note reached him and me on
January 14th at about 10 o'clock at night It runs : W ,
14.1.15, 1-2. N., which means : 14-Jan.-1915, between 1 and
2 o'clock p.m.
(II.) A note by my cousin, Miss M. M., who lives here also
around the other corner of the street.
(III.) A translation of the account of the accident that appeared
in The Fatherland, a newspaper published here at H. W. being
only a small town, there is no special newspaper there.
(IV.) I send also the copy of The Fatherlajid to you.
Further information has shown that the accident must have
happened as follows :
[Here Mr. Griinbaum gives a diagram of the platforms and
lines at W. railway station.]
My cousin had been taking a friend to the train going to
A. He had taken leave of this friend, and, in order to come
home quickly, he seems to have walked across the lines behind
that train, in order to get out of the railway station before
the express from A. should pass. It happened, however, that
this express train, passing W. at full speed, without stopping,
caught him exactly at the moment when he was crossing.
This express train passes W., according to the time-table, at
7.30 p.m. The annexed time-table ^ shows this.
My cousin brought his friend to the train that leaves W. at
7.24. This train is generally late. The express from A. leaves
A. at 7.15, and, as it takes about eighteen minutes to run from
A. to W., it passes W. at full speed at about 7.30.
1 The time-table showed all the times of these various trains! as stated
by Mr. Griinbaum.—A. J.
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mae., 1915.
Now this is just the time that I generally take a little nap,
either trying experimentally for visions or leaving it to chance.
I am sure that I saw nothing at all at that time.
You will remember that in my previous letter I considered
the first horrid instantaneous violent skull (which was only visible
for about a tenth of a second) as the " telepathic impulse."
I hasten now to take back this supposition. As far as explana-
tion goes, I don't know what to make of it.
The most incomprehensible part of the phenomenon lies for
myself in the fact that in the first black-rooted, violent halluci-
nation there was nothing that could remind me in the slightest
way of my cousin. These details came only later on in the
brilliant benevolent one.
So that my standpoint is now that I have no standpoint
at all.
(V.) I also enclose here a note of what my mother dreamt
during the night of the 12th. If there is anything more you
might like to know, please write to me.
The documents enclosed in this letter were as stated by
Mr. Griinbaum :
(I.) The original obituary notice of his cousin's death with
a translation as follows :
" Herewith I give you notice of
the sudden death of my husband, Mr. W. M., at the age
of 52 years. W ,
January 12, 1915. The funeral will
take place on Saturday at 1.30 p.m." The post-mark is as
described in Mr. Griinbaum's letter.
(II.) A statement (in English) by his cousin. Miss M. M.,
as follows :
January 31, 1915.
This is to certify that in the morning of the 13th of January
I received a telegram giving me notice of the sudden death
of my eldest brother W. My cousin [Mr. Griinbaum] coming
to me at about 10 o'clock that same morning remarked to me,
after he had taken notice of the telegram, that it would not
surprise him at all if my brother had died during the beginning
of the preceding night, giving, however, at that moment no
further details as to what he meant by such a statement, as
I was in a hurry to catch the train to W.
(III. and IV.) A copy of the newspaper The Fatherland
for Thursday, January 14, 1915, containing a paragraph
Mae., 1915. RejJoH of Mr. Grunbcmm's Experiences. 49
about Mr. M.'s death, of which Mr. Griinbaum furnishes a
translation as follows :
The Fatherland, 14tli January, 1915, morning edition.
On Tuesday evening there happened a terrible disaster at
W., of which a highly esteemed citizen was the victim.
Mr. M., who was leaving the second platform (from which
the trains start for A.), in order to go out of the railway station,
was just at the moment that he was crossing the railway track
caught by an express train coming from A. He was so terribly
injured that death followed instantaneously.
(V.) An account of the dream of Mr. Griinbaum's mother,
written by herself, of which his accompanying translation is
as follows :
In the night of 12 to 13 January between 5 and 6 o'clock
in the morning, I dreamt that I was sitting in an auto. This
auto was standing in front of the house where my nephew,
Mr. M., was born. When the auto began to run I felt very
anxious lest it should run into the water, as the road was very
sloping. At the moment when I expected that it would run
into the water, and my anxiety was the strongest, I awoke.
On receiving this account, I wrote to ask Mr. Griinbaum
when his mother had first told him of her dream ; whether
she had at any other time had dreams or impressions which
she believed to coincide with a death or any other definite
misfortune ; whether she was inclined to believe that dreams
had significance ; and whether the house before which the
dream-auto was standing was the same as the one at W.
in which Mr. M. had recently been living. Mr. Griinbaum
replied :
February 13, 1915
As my mother is ill just now and is not allowed to come
out of her bed (she is 75 years old), I will write down what
she told me just now.
My mother's dream. I remember very clearly and I am abso-
lutely sure that my mother told me about her dream directly
at breakfast on the 13th January, even before we received tidings
from my niece, M. M., who lives quite near to us here in the
city. At breakfast as well as afterwards I did not pay any
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1915.
attention to her dream, because I did not see any connection
between her dream and the accident, as I did not know about
any accident. The detail of the express train only reached
us on the 14th, after M. M. had gone to Al. and W., and after
she had written about it, and after Mr. I. showed The Fatherhnd
to us on the 14th.
In the newspaper we are reading (
The ) there has never
appeared any note at all about the sudden death of my cousin.
So that it is only on the 14th January afternoon that Mr. I.
showed his newspaper, The Fatherland, to us, giving details about
the express train.
When I wrote my first report to you I did not tell about
my mother's dream, because I did not judge it clear enough,
and because an auto is not an express train, and because there
was nobody run over by the auto in her dream. But afterwards
it came to me that it was anyhow a curious coincidence, and
that it might perhaps be of interest to you to know about it.
If my mother were not ill just now she would be willing
to write about it herself to you, as she says that she is sure
that there must have been some sort of connection.
Other experiences of my mother. If you do not count my own
experimenting with my mother {ivithout her knowledge) when
on three different occasions she heard :
(a) the footsteps in the room above ;
(b) the bird jumping in the room ;
(c) somebody pacing up and down in the corridor,
then I know of only one incident that was very striking. It
was the following :
One of my mother's friends from her youth is the old minister
of justice, Mr. K. He is an old man, now 84. He is living
on the other side of the city. I think it must have been in
September, 1914, that my mother one day coming down at
breakfast told me that she had a very curious experience that
night. She said :
" I was lying in a state of half-sleep this
morning, and all the while thinking about the European War,
at about 6 o'clock in the morning, when all at once there appeared
before my eyes a very big, bright visiting-card of about a foot
long as follows : [drawing of visiting card with Mr. K.'s name
on it]. The name was written in black type on a white card.
Mr. K. has not come to see me for the last three years, so I
wonder what this means."
Mae., 1915. Report of Mr. Grunbau7n's Exjyeriences. 51
On that day nothing happened, but on the next day the old
man really came to pay us a visit.
My mother has not at all the habit of ascribing any signi-
ficance to dreams. She knows of no other dreams or impressions
[of her own] that coincided with any misfortune. When her
only daughter died in D. (she living quite near to her in the
same city) she had no intimation of it.
The city of Al. is the native town of my cousin, Mr. M.
It was in front of his native house in this city that the dream-
auto started, not in W., where my cousin had been living as
long as twenty-seven years and where he was run over by the
passing express train.
So that it comes to this : Both my mother and I had im-
pressions of a deadly danger, or even death, in some way connected
with my cousin W. M. My impression occurred four hours after
the accident happened, and before going to sleep. My mother's
impression occurred ten hours after it, and before she awoke.
The fact of the death was not made known to me till after
breakfast, when my cousin M. showed the telegram to me. The
facts about the express train only reached us on the 14th January
when my cousin I. showed the copy of The Fatherland to me.
In the letter just quoted, Mr. Griinbaum refers to three
instances of apparently telepathic communication between
his mother and himself, when she had an impression corre-
sponding to some impression or idea of his at about the
same time. The first instance was mentioned to me in one
of his earlier letters. The third is given at the beginning
of his letter of January 17, 1915, quoted above. The second
was described in a letter to me dated December 21, 1914,
in which, after speaking of the " low rumbling sound " which
sometimes accompanies his self-induced hallucinations, he
goes on :
I heard this many a time when experimenting. Once, sitting
opposite to my mother after dinner, I noticed it. On that
occasion it was followed by the sound as if a big bird were
jumping on the floor behind me. I heard very distinctly the
" pit-a-pat " of the bird along the wooden floor. As there was
a thick carpet on the floor, a real bird could not, of course, have
occasioned such a sound.
But the curious point is that when my mother awoke, she
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mar., 1915.
said :
" Dear me, how curious ! I thought there was a big
bird in the room !
" She had not heard anything of the sound
of rumbHngs.
These cases are not of course evidential, since they were
not fully recorded at the time, but only noted incidentally
by Mr. Griinbaum when he was writing out reports of his
own experiences. Nevertheless, if his recollection of them is
accurate, there seems reason to believe that his mother's
mind and his own may occasionally be in telepathic com-
munication. In that case, it is conceivable that both of them
received telepathic intimations of Mr. M.'s death, which were
mutually reinforced by the telepathic connection between their
two percipient minds.
The impressions of the two percipients were, it will be
noted, quite different from one another, though both showed
a connection with the state of the agent, so that the whole
case bears a certain resemblance to cross-correspondences
between the scripts of different automatists.
No. GCCXVIII-XIX.—Vol. XVII. . April and May, 1915.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
An Icelandic Seer. By Professor Agllst Bjariiason, 5'i
Notice, 76
Particulars of the next Meeting of the Society, at which Pro-
fessor Gilbert Murray will deliver his Presidential Address, will be
announced in the Journal for June.
AN ICELANDIC SEER.
REPORT ON A SUPPOSED CASE OF TRAVELLING
CLAIRVOYANCE.
By Professor A gust Bjarnason.
With Editorial Comments by Helen de G. Verrall.
{Professor Bjarnason's report is lyrinted in large type, and
the corroborative statements contributed by various witnesses are
in small type. Miss VerralVs comments are enclosed in square
brackets, and have her initials at the end. Only part of the
report is included in this number of the Journal ; the conclusion
will appear in the next number.)
Introduction.
[The case with which this report deals has been investigated
on behalf of the Society by Professor Agiist Bjarnason, pro-
fessor of psychology in the University of Iceland. As Professor
Bjarnason's report is very long and detailed, only selections
from it can be published here. But first some account must
be given of how we got into communication with him, and
under what circumstances he made the enquiries upon which
his report is based.
On April 8, 1914, Professor Bjarnason wrote us a letter
giving an account of " a poor peasant in the north of Iceland,
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apr. -May,
known by the name of Dreaming-Joi [Joe] . . . who for a
long time has been used as a dreaming oracle by his acquain-
tances." Professor Bjarnason said that he had heard a good
many stories about Dreaming Joe, partly from two pupils
of his own who knew him, and he wrote to ask whether
the Society for Psychical Research would care to have a
detailed report on the case, which would involve his
going to the north of Iceland to obtain first-hand testimony
from the people amongst whom Dreaming Joe had lived.
In the following May Professor Bjarnason sent us, by request,
a short preliminary report, giving such instances of Dreaming
Joe's faculty as he had been able to collect at second hand
during the last few years. On the strength of this report
it was decided that he should be asked to go to the north
of Iceland on behalf of the Society to make a detailed investi-
gation of the case.
In accordance with this plan Professor Bjarnason left
Reykjavik on July 9, 1914, for Raufarhofn, and spent about
a month travelling over the country in which Dreaming Joe
had spent his life, and collecting the evidence of various
people who had first-hand knowledge concerning his supposed
faculty. During part of this time Dreaming Joe himself
accompanied Professor Bjarnason in the capacity of a guide.
The detailed report which Professor Bjarnason sent us on
his return to Reykjavik included all the evidence, negative
as well as positive, which he had been able to collect in regard
to Dreaming Joe. We have selected for publication at full
length instances in which Dreaming Joe appears to have been
particularly successful, but something will be said later of his
failures in regard to their bearing on an estimate of the whole
case. H. de G. V.]
Professor Bjarnason's Report.
'
On Langanes, one of the most northern peninsulas of Iceland,
there lives a man named Johannes Jonsson. He has been
a shepherd and a farmer all his life, and has scarcely ever
been outside his own parish. Yet he may be said to be
known throughout the whole country by the name of " Dream-
ing Joe." He is so called because in his sleep he replies
to questions which are put to him, tells people the where-
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 55
abouts of lost things which uobody knows where to find,
besides informing them of various other things that they
are desirous of knowing. At one time he was even a kind
of oracle for the people of the north and east country.
It is now eight years since my interest in him was first
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. ape.-May
awakened by the reports I heard of him, and especially by
those stories which were told to me by Mrs. Giidriin Bjorns-
dottir, who was personally acquainted with Joe, and in whose
service he had been for some time. In April, 1906, I wrote
a letter to Mrs. Gudrun Bjornsdottir, asking her to obtain
for me reliable information about several facts concerning
Dreaming Joe. Mrs. Gudrun ^ then wrote to a sister of
Joe's, A. Jonsdottir, who was an acquaintance of hers, for-
warding my letter to her, and asking her to obtain reliable
answers to my questions.
[Professor Bjarnason then gives a list of his questions and
the answers obtained. I will only give a resume here of
such facts as are not mentioned in the subsequent narrative.
Joe was born of quite healthy parents, and his gift is not
shared by any other members of his family. When he has
been questioned in his sleep, he is conscious of fatigue after
waking. He does not always remember having been questioned,
but he is a light sleeper and often awakes during the question-
ing, and has only a dim recollection of what he has been
asked about. His eyes are usually closed during the question-
ing, and, so far as is known, he has never walked in his
sleep. If he is asked to dream of something, he concentrates
his thoughts on it before going to sleep ; then he can generally
give the desired information.
Professor Bjarnason adds that his own experience of Joe indi-
cates that these answers are correct as far as they go.
H. DE G. v.]
BlOGEAPHICAL SkETCH.
Dreaming Joe, who is now living in the village of Thors-
hofn on the Langanes, is fifty-three years of age. He was
born at Saudaneskot on the Langanes, on April 24, 1861.
He was brought up with his parents until his father died,
which happened when he was eleven years of age. He then
removed with his mother to the parsonage of Saudanes, where
he stayed until he was nineteen years old (1880). During
this time he was twice taken seriously ill, it was thought
1 In Iceland the custom of calling people by their forenames still prevails.
The ladies seldom bear their husband's surnames, but are generally called
the daughters of their father. Thus Gudrun Bjornsdottir means : Gudrun
daughter of Bjorn.—Ag. Bj.
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 57
with typhoid fever. He says it was not certain that his
first illness, which occurred when he was about thirteen years
old, really was typhoid fever, but it was after that illness
that he first discovered the fact that he could sometimes
at will dream the whereabouts of things he had lost ; but he
was never questioned in his sleep until he was over twenty
years old. Then he had become farm-servant at Ytra-L6n, which
is the next farm to the north-east of the parsonage of Saudanes.
At Ytra-L6n he stayed for four years (until 1884), and was
often questioned in his sleep. Fcom there he returned to
Saudanes where he now stayed for two years (till 1886), and
it was during these two years that he was most frequently
questioned.
[Professor Bjarnason then relates how Dreaming Joe spent
some years moving from one farm to another, always in the
same district. H. de G. V.]
In the year 1893 he married, and since then it has
always been more difficult to get permission to question
him in his sleep, as his wife has always been greatly opposed
to its being done. For he was sometimes asked about thefts
and all kinds of misdoings, and betrayed people, which he
would never have done of his free will.
While collecting the stories about Dreaming Joe and trying
to obtain the best possible proofs of their veracity, I have
met with great difficulties on account of the long time which
has elapsed since some of the events occurred. I have as
far as possible proceeded in the following manner
:
(a) I have taken pains to find those people who have
themselves seen or heard what the stories state, having only
in a few instances (as in the case of Doc. theol. S. P. Sivert-
sen) taken stories recorded by noted men Avho had received
their information of the facts from eye-witnesses or from Joe
himself.
(6) I have also referred the stories to Joe, and recorded
his comments on them, as, after having become personally
acquainted with him, I consider him scrupulously honest and
very trustworthy, and as he himself makes less of his gift
than most of those who have known him. Joe told me that
in his younger days he often used to remember his dreams
very plainly when he awoke, but since he grew older he
A 2
58 Journcd of Society for Psychical Research. Apk.-May^
remembers them very indistinctly or not at all. For this
reason he remembers some of the oldest stories best.
(c) I have got each person to record his account according
to his own memory without previously telling him what I
already had heard from others of the same occurrence. This
is why there are in some cases several variations of the same story.
I. The Story op the Sheep.
[I have included this story because it is the earliest re-
corded case in which Joe exercised his factdty, and it is a
typical example of the kind of powers which he is currently
reputed to possess. Owing to the long lapse of time since
these events occurred, very little corroborative evidence can
now be obtained. H. de G. V.]
{Recorded from Joe's own statement by Doc. theol. S. P. Sivertsen
on October 19, 1903.)
One day at Ytra-L6n [in the summer 1881] Joe lay down
after breakfast in the meadow for a nap. He then began to
talk in his sleep and said :
" The poor creatm'es are so awfully
distressed." This he repeated two or three times. Tryggvi
Jonsson, then farmer at Ytra-L6n [now in Pembina, N.D., U.S.A.],
asked him what he saw in his sleep. Joe repHed :
" I see two
sheep away up in the highlands, and they have hooked their
horns together and cannot disentangle themselves." Tryggvi
then asked him in what highlands they were. Joe could not
say. He thought it was either the Highlands of Hvammur
or of Dal. Tryggvi then asked Joe if he could not see the
marks on their ears. To which Joe replied that he could only
see the marks on one ear, the one that turned up, for he thought
the sheep had been struggling about and were now so exhausted
that they were lying down. Joe described the marks that he
saw, so that Tryggvi concluded that one of the sheep belonged
to the farmer Jon at Dal and the other to Sigfiis, the farmer
at Hvammur. [They are now both dead.] Joe said that the
sheep would not be able to disentangle themselves, for they had
already exerted themselves to the utmost. All this Tryggvi
told Joe when he awoke. He asked Joe what he had dreamt,
and whether he knew that he had been questioning him. Joe did
not know anything about that, but said he had been dreaming
some nonsense about sheep.
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 59
Some considerable time now elapsed until all the sheep had
been gathered and driven down from the highlands in the autumn.
The sheep Joe had described had not been found anywhere.
Now Sigurd, the son of Jon at Dal, happened to come and
stay overnight at Ytra-L6n. People began to speak about the
sheep and Joe's dj-'eam. Sigurd thought it remarkable how Joe
had answered in his sleep, and asked if they might not try
to question him again, and ask him to describe more minutely
the place where the sheep were. Joe's permission was then
obtained, and that night, after he had gone to sleep, they asked
Joe about the place in the highlands ; and he described it so
that Sigurd at Dal felt certain that he recognized it as being
in the Dal highlands.
Some time later Sigurd went to the highlands and found the
two sheep with their horns hooked together, lying dead in a
place which was just like the one that Joe had described. One
of the sheep belonged to Jon at Dal, and the other to Sigfus
at Hvammur.
I have been trying to obtain proofs of the facts (1) that
Joe was questioned in his sleep, and (2) that the sheep were
found according to his directions.
As to the first point, I have written to Tryggvi Jonsson,
the discoverer of Joe's gift, but have as yet received no reply.
On the other hand, I have quite unexpectedly received the following
e\'idence :
Thorshofn, June 25, 1914.
I, the undersigned, Johann Gunnlaugsson, bailiff, hereby testify
that I Avas out in the meadow and heard distinctly when my
brother-in-law Tryggvi Jonsson asked Dreaming Joe about the
sheep in this story, and that the story is quite true and correct
according to my memory.
JoHANN Gunnlaugsson, BaiUff.
As to the second point, it is difficult to prove that the
sheep were found according to Joe's directions. Sigurd at
Dal is dead, and neither his wife nor daughter, whom I
have seen, remember anything about this. But this may
be accounted for by the fact, that this happened just before
he was married. But Bjorn Jonsson, bailiff, a brother of
the deceased Sigurd at Dal, remembers it. When asked
about this on July 19, 1914, he replied that he remembers
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Aph.-Mat,
that the sheep were found according to Joe's directions.
Lastly I have received the following evidence from men who
have of their own accord told me this story :
Reykjavik, July 7, 1914.
We, the undersigned, recognize this story and remember to
have heard in our youth that the sheep were found in the place
described by Joe.
Bj. J6n. JoHANNESSON, Karl H. Bjarnakson,
Printers.
The following stories occurred while Joe was at Saudanes
for the second time (1884-1886) in the service of the clergy-
man, the Rev. Vigfiis Sigurdsson. Larus Johannesson had
then just taken orders and become curate to the Rev. Vigfus.
The Rev. Larus had heard about Dreaming Joe, and asked
him if he really was as peculiar as he was said to be. Joe
replied that rumours generally exaggerated. But some days
later the Rev. Larus tried Joe's powers in the following
manner.
II. The Curate's AVhip.
{Recorded by Doc. theol. S. P. Sivertsen in 1903 from
Joe's own statement.)
The Rev. Larus was summoned to the farm Lseknisstadir to
christen a child. AVhen his horse had been saddled he said
that he couldn't find his whip, which was quite new and had
been made by the silversmith Bjorn Palsson. He therefore asked
some of the lads to lend him a whip. He then asked Joe to
try to find the whip for him, while he was away. Joe was
shy with the clergyman, and made no reply. The curate then
asked whether Sveinn Jonsson [now living at Nordfjordur] might
not ask Joe about it, while he was away. Sveinn Jonsson was
a fellow-servant of Joe's, and Joe gave him permission to try.
During the night Sveinn asked Joe about the whip. Joe replied
that he saw the whip, but he would not tell where. Joe did
not say any more that night. Next morning Sveinn told him
what he had said, and was vexed with him for not telling where
the whip was. Next night Sveinn questioned him again, but
received the same reply. This time Joe remembered that he
dreamt of the whip, but would not tell Sveinn where he had
dreamt it was, for he thought he might be mistaken. He there-
V
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 61
fore went out to find the whip himself, according to his dream.
He found it in a horse-stall in a stable in the home-field, where
it lay under a heap of refuse of hay. Two days later the Rev.
Larus came home and was told what reply Sveinn had received
from Joe in his sleep. He then wanted to question Joe once
more. But that evening Joe went into the stable and took the
whip and removed it to the next stall. In the night Joe awoke,
so they couldn't question him. In the morning the curate
asked him about the whip, and Joe told him to come with
him down to the stable ; and there he showed him the whip
and told him that he had removed it the evening before. The
Rev. Larus had himself hidden the whip in the stable.
Joe told me this summer (1914) that lie remembers all
this very distinctly, and would be willing to swear in court
to its truth, except the item that he removed the whip to
the next stall, which is not correct ; he says that he only
thought of doing so, for he thought that perhaps Sveinn had
hidden the whip to fool him. Still it seemed to him the
first night that he saw the Rev. Larus go into the stable
with the whip, but he could not believe it of the clergyman.
It was rather late in the day when they walked down towards
the stable, and when Joe was going in, the curate asked
:
" Are you going in there 1
" Joe made no reply, but went
in, while the curate remained outside. He took the whip
from under the hay and brought it to the curate. The
Rev. Larus now laughed and said :
" Well, you certainly
are a remarkable man." Then the curate told Joe that he
had hidden the whip in order to try his powers.
The Rev. Larus died in 1888, and his widow, Mrs. Gudrun,
does not remember anything about this occurrence, so you
cannot get any first-hand evidence thereof. Still, I have
spoken with a very reliable man, Bjorn Gudmundsson, at
Hallgilsstadir, who told me this story even more minutely
than Joe had done. He said that among other things the
clergyman had said to Joe : "It isn't so easy to steal at
Saudanes now. I shouldn't like to be the one to do it."
When I asked Joe about this, he smiled and said he remem-
bered these words, but he had not thought it befitting to
repeat them as those of a clergyman.
From Sveinn Jonsson I have received the following statement
:
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apr. -Mat,
NoRDFJoRDUR, August 22, 1914.
... I remember that the Rev. Larus lost a whip which was
found according to the direction of Dreaming Joe. I am sorry
I cannot give more information about this incident as I have
for the most part quite forgotten it.
. . . Dreaming Joe was often and by many people questioned
in his sleep about all kinds of things which they desired to know
something about. He always replied promptly, and experience
showed that his answers always proved reliable. I have myself
often asked Joe in his sleep about many things and could always
rely on his answers.
I was with him at Saudanes for ten years.
SVEINN JONSSON.
III. Sees fifty Sheep and finds them.
{Recorded by Doc. theol. S. P. Sivertsen in 1903 fro7n
Joe's own statement.)
Once fifty sheep were missing from the fold at Saudanes.
They were searched for for two whole days. Then the Rev.
Vigfiis asked Joe to take a nap. Joe did so, and the clergyman
tried to ask him about the sheep. Joe now described the place
where the sheep were, and said that they were lying together
on the southern slope of a high hill, and that to the north and
north-east of this place there was a barren moor. When Joe
awoke he remembered plainly that he had dreamt of the place
where the sheep were. He got a horse to ride in search of them.
He went straight to a hill which he saw was just like the one
of which he had dreamt, and there he found all the missing sheep.
When asked about this story Joe said it was not quite
correct. He thought there had only been about thirty sheep.
He says, too, that the Rev. Vigfus tried to question him, but
did not succeed, as he then awoke. But still he requested
him to go and look for the sheep, as he thought that he
above all others would be able to find them. The clergy-
man now lent him his own horse. Joe started off, and
when he was out in the open field, he lay down and dreamt
of the sheep. His dream was just as is stated above, and
he found the sheep according to his dream.
I have not been able to obtain any further evidence of
this story ;
still, I think it worth relating, as it shows how
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 63
early Joe began to practise a method he has especially culti-
vated in his later years, viz. dreaming for himself, when other
persons either are not able or not allowed to question him.
There are many other stories of Joe's finding missing sheep,
which could be verified.
IV. Little Vigfi^ts's Puese.
{Recorded by Mrs. Gudrun {see p. 56) in 1906.)
One evening everybody had gone to bed except my sister
Halldora, Metta and I. Metta went upstairs and was about
to go to bed, when she heard that Joe was talking in his sleep.
He said it was too bad that he couldn't tell anyone about little
Vigfus's purse. Vigfiis Thordarson (a nephew of the Rev. Vigfus)
had lost a purse and had begged Joe to try to find it for him.
Then Metta asked him if he could see it. Joe repHed that there
was a purse behind the stove in the north-room, but it was
empty. Metta came down and told me this. I went into the
north-room and found the purse, but it was empty. We then
went upstairs again and Metta asked Joe where the money was.
He said that little Jonas (a lad at the parsonage) had taken it
and had thrown the purse there, in order to make it appear as
if it had been taken by some of the people who came to church.
He added that little Jonas would be fortunate if he didn't get
into mischief some day. He said that the money was wrapped
up in a rag and was stuck into a hole in the wall of the store-
house. There was also some money therein that did not belong
to Vigfus, but was the savings of Jonas himself. I don't re-
member how much money he said was wrapped up in the rag,
but it proved to be just as he said. I now went out to search
for it, and while I was away Joe said that I was feeling all
over the wall without finding the right place. I then went
in again, as I couldn't find the money, and Metta asked him
more minutely about this. He then said there were two holes
in the wall [the wall being made of turf and stone] near the
door of the storehouse. In one of these the lads always kept
the wedge with which they split the fuel ; but in the other
hole was the rag containing the money, and if one looked care-
fully, a bit of the rag might be seen sticking out of the hole.
All this proved just as Joe said. I went out again and found
the hole at once, for on looking more carefully, I saw the rag sticking
out of the hole.
(j4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apk.-May,
Miss Halldora, Mrs. Gudrun's sister, tells this story in exactly
the same way as Mrs. Gudruii, although they have not for
many years spoken about this subject.
Metta has emigrated to America. I have written to her
brother-in-law, Jon Jonsson, from Sledbrjot (formerly an M.P.
here), who also is living in America, and he has promised me
to obtain for me Mrs. Metta's evidence concerning this case.
The owner of the purse, now the Rev. Vigfus Thordarson
at Hjaltastadm", remembers this quite well, although he was
very young, but it seems to him that he himself questioned
Joe and found the purse, which can hardly be true against
the evidence of Mrs. Gudrun and Miss Halldora.
Joe himself had almost forgotten this occurrence, but on
being reminded of it, he recollected it quite well.
V. Sees the Rev. Halldob's Purse.
(a) Statement by Mrs. Gudriin, made in 1906.
The last winter that my brother Halldor was at Saudanes,
he lost a purse, and Joe was asked about it. When the purse
had been described to him, Joe said that such a purse was in
the pocket of a jacket which was hanging in the house at Eld-
jarnsstadir (a farm in the parish of Saudanes) and that the
jacket belonged to Hallgrimur. The next time Hallgrimur came
to church at Saudanes, Halldor asked him about the purse, which
he then produced, taking it out of his pocket.
{h) Statement by the Rev. Hallddr Bjarnarson.
Reykjavik, July 4, 1914.
In the sjiring of 1885 I was at Saudanes. Joe was then a
servant there. The previous autumn I had lost a purse, which
I had laid in the window of the north-room at Saudanes. I
asked the people to question Joe about the purse. When he
was asked about this, he first replied that he did not know what
this purse looked like. It was then described to him. It had
no lock, but was kept closed by a piece of elastic. Then Joe
replied that there was a purse like that in the pocket of a jacket
at Eldjarnsstadir. The jacket was hanging in the room under
the staircase and belonged to Hallgrimur, who had been a servant
at Saudanes the year before. A week or two later Hallgrimur
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 65
came to cliurcli. I then took him aside and told him that
I suspected him to have a purse which I had lost the year
before. Thereupon he took the purse out of his pocket and
asked me if that was mine. I recognized it at once. He then
told me that he had found it under the wall of the storehouse,
and said he was very sorry he had spent 35 auv. (=5 pence)
which were in it. I said that it did not matter at all, as I
had only asked about the purse in order to see what Joe was
able to do. Some of the children had evidently taken the purse-
and carried it out.
Halldor Bjarnarson.
A similar story is told in the article on Dreaming Joe ia
HeimsJcringla, April 1, 1891, where the main facts correspond
with what is related above.
Joe himself has a vague recollection of this story.
VI. Sees the Ship " Kristine."
The Rev. Halldor Bjarnarson of Prestholar relates the following :
Eeykjavik, July 8, 1914.
In the spring of 1885, I was one evening after bedtime standing
with my brother-in-law, the late Rev. Larus, on the stony slope
above the house at Saudanes. We then saw a ship which was
sailing in, and was already inside the Brimnestangi. We at once
thought that it was the ship Kristine belonging to the " Grana
"
Trading Company, for Joe had been asked about it the preceding
nights. The hrst time he saw it to the south of Iceland, and
the second time he said it was off the eastern firths. I now
went in and upstairs. Everybody there was fast asleep. Joe
slept in a bed under the sloping ceiling, but I stood by the
gable Avindow, facing the north, and could from there see the
ship. I then asked Joe if he could tell me where the Kristine
was now. He mumbled something and then he said that it was
in the bay, opposite to the Lambanes' breakers, and was saihng
in. I saw through the window that this was exactly correct.
Halldor Bjarnarson.
Joe confirms this story. He remembers being asked about
Kristine several times.
I have not got any more stories of Joe from his second
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Avk. May,
stay at Saudanes. The following three stories are from his
second stay (1886-88) at Ytra-L6n.
VII. The Embroidered Suspenders.
{Stateynent by Mrs. Gudrun, recorded in 1906.)
Bjorn Gudmundsson at Hallgilsstadir once came to Saudanes
on his way to Ytra-L6n. Bjorn had with him a pair of em-
broidered suspenders, which he had been asked to take to the
saddle-maker in order to have the straps put on them. But
Bjorn lost the suspenders. When he came to Ytra-L6n, Joe
was asked about the suspenders, which he had lost. He said
that Bjorn had left them at the bottom of a barrel, in the
north storehouse at Saudanes, and that Sigvaldi, a servant at
Saudanes, would find them and return them. This proved as
Joe said.
On July 21, 1914, I spoke to Bjorn at Hallgilsstadir. He
remembered this incident at once, and added that he went
back to Saudanes, and when he came there, Sigvaldi had
not yet found the suspenders, but had said he would find
them, which he also did very soon. He found them at the
bottom of a barrel in the storehouse.
Sigvaldi is now dead.
Joe says that this story is quite correct.
VIII. The Horse with the Clean-shaven Tail.
(Statement by Mrs. Gudrun, recorded in 1906.)
Once there was a change of tenants at the farm of Brinmes
on the Langanes. 0 was the name of the tenant who
surrendered the lease, but his successor was called S . At
the time of this story 0. was still at Brinmes, and the two
farmers were not on friendly terms. One morning when the
people came into the stable, they saw that the tail of S.'s
favourite horse had been very closely shaved. S. was greatly
grieved at this offence, and had some one ask Joe for him who
had done this. Joe rephed that he supposed 0. knew some-
thing about it. He requested this to be kept secret, for he
did not wish 0. to hear that he had accused him of doing this.
Nevertheless, this soon came to O.'s ears, and he was greatly
enraged. He even threatened to report Joe to the magistrate
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 67
for this. Joe then told him he might do as he liked about
that, but he would then tell where he had hidden the horse-hair.
0. never reported the case to the magistrate. But Joe said
that he had buried the horse-hair on the beach, and there it
was found.
I have heard this story from different people, as so many
know it, for it caused some sensation in its time. But it
was especially memorable to Joe, on account of the fuss that
was made about it all over the Langanes. He was so annoyed
by this, that after this he was very reluctant to allow people
to question him in his sleep, unless he could trust their
secrecy.
Miss Halldora and the Rev. Halldor of Prestholar both
confirm this story, and several other people who still live
on the Langanes. •
•
IX. The Story op the Needle-case.
Mrs. Gudrun relates the following :
[Recorded in 1906, revised in 1914.]
When I left Prestholar (in 1895) I moved to Sigurdarstadir
on the Melrakkasletta. Joe was then on the Langanes, living
at his farm, 'Assel, more than a day's journey from Sigurdar-
stadir. During the summer, while I was at Sigurdarstadir, I
happened to lose my needle-case and couldn't imagine how I
had lost it. I always used to carry it in my pocket, and from
there it disappeared. I had often mentioned how sorry I was
to lose that needle-case, for I had had it so long. That summer
I had a maidservant Avho later took service at Langanes.^ I
don't remember how long a time passed until I once got a message
[Mrs. Gudrim is not sure it was a letter] from her saying that
she had asked Dreaming Joe how my needle-case had been lost,
and where it was to be found. He had told her in his sleep
that once the preceding summer I had gone down to the mouth
of the river at Sigurdarstadir to drive away the cows from Odds-
stadir [the next farm to the west]. It was as if Joe saw it
all in his sleep, although it had happened a year before, for
he smiled as he said :
" Well, well, the way Mrs. Gudrun bustles
Mrs. Gudrun did not remember her name, but she thought it was Ingibjorg
Amadottir, now living at Seydisfjordur.—Ag. Bj.
68 Journal of Society for Psycldcal Research. Aph.-Mat,
about. There she is running after the cows, and there the
needle-case falls out of her pocket, as she holds up her skirts."'
He then said that the sea took the needle-case, but that it
had now drifted on shore again, and was lying by a stone which
stood just below some old walls on the gravel plains. I found
the needle-case at once according to this description, but there
was a rent in the lid, which was screwed on, and the end of
it had fallen out. But I have had the lid mended and the
end filled up with cork. More than a year had passed from
the time I lost the needle-case until I found it again.
Joe denies any knowledge of this incident, and says :
" This
is either a fib invented by Mrs. Gudrun or somebody has
asked me in my sleep and then run away without telling
me anything about it."
I have myself seen Mrs. Gudrun's needle-case, which is
just as described above, and am personally convinced of the
truth of her story, as she is a most trustworthy person.
Still, I have met with the greatest difficulties in trying to
get this story verified. I have sought all the way from
Husavik to Seydisfj(')rdur for the woman Ingibjorg Arnadottir,
who—-Mrs. Gudrun thought—was the servant who had
questioned Joe. At last I found her at Seydisfjordur. But
she said she knew nothing about this, and that it could not
have been she who questioned Joe, for she had gone straight
from Raufarhofn to Seydisfjordur and had never stayed on
the Langanes. But she told me about two other women,
who had been her fellow-servants at Mrs. Gudrun's, Salgerd
Sigurdardottir, who is probably dead now, and Gudrun Bald-
vinsdottir from Fagranes on the Langanes. She is the one
most likely to know something about this, and if she does
and I can find out where she lives, I shall soon procure
her evidence. But this will take some time.
X. Jon Skinni's Trunk.
(a) Doc. theol. S. P. Sivertsen recorded this story in 1903
as told to him by Johann Gunnlaugsson, bailiff at Thorshofn :
Jon " Skinni " Jonsson, shoemaker at Thorshofn, lost a trunk
off one of the coasting steamers. Joe dreamt he saw the trunk
in a place which he described minutely, although he said he
had never been there. He also described the trunk, how it
1915. An Icelandic Seer. G9
looked and wliat was in it. Under the locker lie said there
was a clock, covered over by a pillow-case. The trunk itself was
painted yellow. All his description was correct. The descri^^tion
he gave of the place fitted a storehouse at Seydisfjordur, in which
the trunk was subsequently found.
When Mr. S. P. Sivertsen asked Joe himself about this,
he remembered Jon Skinni"s trunk, and said that Jon had
thanked him for helping him to find it, and had said he
would certainly never have got it without his help.
Jon Skinni died shortly after 1900.
(6) The following corroborative evidence has been received
from J. J. Dahlmann :
- - • Keykjavik, April 14, 1911.
Prom the year 1892 to 1900 I lived at Seydisfjordur. In the
summer of 1898 I travelled to Thorshofn, where I made the
.acquaintance of a man named Jon Jonsson, generally called
Skinni," as he was from a place called Skinnastadur. This
man complained that his wife had lost a trunk which she had
had with her on board the S.S. Hdlar. He said that her initials
and the name of the town of Thorshofn had been inscribed
on the trunk with blue crayon. He also told me that he had
consulted Dreaming Joe [then living at the farm of 'Assel] and
asked him to try to look for the trunk in a dream. Dreaming
Joe was by that time well knowm for his dream visions. Noav
Joe tried to find the trunk and said that he had seen it among
different things, in a certain house, the walls of which were only
about two feet high, and which had a sheet-iron roof. Just below
the house he said there was a pier ; he also said the house was
standing in a firth which he described quite minutely. Joe was
quite unacquainted with the firths on the east coast for he
had never been there : but still he said he was pretty sure that
the firth he now saw was Seydisfjordur. I also recognized the
•description as being that of Seydisfjordur, and the house Avhich
Joe had mentioned as being the storehouse of the United Steamship
Company.
Jon Skinni now asked me to inquire about this trunk at Seydis-
fjordur. I wrote his description of the trunk in my j^ocket-book,
and among other things he told me that nearest the lid there were
stockings and other articles of dress. The note-book with the
•description is still in my possession, although some of the words
70 Joxivnal of Society for Psychical Research. Apk.-Mat,
" A.J.
Thorshofn
are so faded that they are quite illegible. But what is still discernible
is thus :
Oakpainted . . . with a black stripe . . . brass
tacks on the lid . . . dovetailed, with an ivory
keyplate."
When I came to Seydisfjordur I asked the United Steamship
Company's agent, Consul Stefan Jonsson, about this. He said
that it was not very probable that the trunk was still at the Com-
pany's storehouse, but gave me permission to go in there and
look for it. I went in and looked for the trunk for some time.
At last I found it in a corner, under a heap of all kinds of
goods. This trunk corresponded exactly to the description I
had of Skinni's trunk, except that there was no inscription visible.
I then went back to the Consul, St. Jonsson, and told him that
I had found the trunk in the storehouse, and described it to
him. He then said that the trunk I have found belonged to
a carpenter up in the country, and that it was to be sent along
to him at the earliest opportunity. Thereupon I wrote to Jon Skinni,
telling him the result of my search.
When I came again to Thorshofn the following summer (1899)
I asked Jon Skinni whether he had got his trunk, to which
he replied that he had. He told me that on the receipt of
my letter, he had written to the steamship company's agent
at Seydisfjordur, and told him what were the contents of his
trunk, and sent him the key, so that he could open it. It
then appeared that the trunk was the one that his wife had
lost, and it was sent to him to Thorshofn. The blue inscription
had faded off.
JoN J. Dahlmann.
I have myself seen Mr. Dahlmann's note-book, containing
the fragments of the description, cited above. The copy is
correct, but there is no date to this memorandum.
The storehouse at Seydisfjordur in which Joe is said to have
seen Jon Skinni's trunk, is quite rmique. A house called
" Liverpool," belonging to a mercantile firm, was once swept
off its foundation by an avalanche. The foundation, which
is about two feet high, was later furnished with rafters and
covered with a sheet-iron roof, and used by the steamship
company as a storehouse in and about 1898.
[Professor Bjarnason sent us two photographs of the store-
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 71
house, showing the very low-pitched roof which distinguishes
it from neighbouring storehouses. H. de G. V.]
I spoke to Consul St. Th. Jonsson at Seydisfjordur, but
he had only a vague recollection of this incident. He had
Jon Skinni's letter searched for, but it was not to be found.
The Consul promised me to ask the man who had then
had on hand the expedition of goods at the storehouse about
this, in case he should remember it, but I have not yet heard
from him concerning this.
The merchant, Mr. Pall Oddgeirsson, Westman islands, has
procured for me the following statement of Jon Skinni's
widow, Mrs. Anna Jonathansdottir, and their daughter Gud-
bjorg :
Vestmanneyjar, September 19, 1914.
Jon Jonsson from Skinnastad, who lost the trunk, asked Dream-
ing Joe to try to dream about it. The result was as follows :
Joe said that the trunk was in a storehouse at Seydisfjordur
[which had formerly been swept away by an avalanche]. He
described the trunk thus :
" Oak painted—yellow—with a bone
keyplate, and no inscription, but large chalk marks on the bottom,"
but Mrs. Anna does not remember what marks he said they
were. In the trunk he said there was a small clock and a
chessboard, and these things, he said, were lying under the
locker. The key was sent to Seydisfjordur, and a trunk exactly
corresponding to the one Joe dreamt of was found in the store-
house above mentioned, and the above-mentioned articles were
found under the locker. Mrs. Anna and her daughter both assert
that this is irrefutably true.
XL Predicts the Arrival op a Steamer.
(a) Doc. theol. S. P. Sivertsen recorded this story, in 1903,
as told to him by Joe himself
:
In the autumn of 1901, many people from Seydisfjordur were
waiting for the S.S. Mjolnir at Thorshofn. Among others there
were Kristjan Jonsson, ;
shipowner from Gunnolfsvik, and his
servant GisH. They were getting tired of waiting, as a whole
week had passed from the time at which the ship was expected.
Kristjan then sent Gisli to Joe and begged him to allow Gisli
to ask him in his sleep about the ship. Gisli slept with Joe
that night, and asked him about the ship. Joe said it would
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apr.-May.
arrive the following day, and, if that did not come true, it would
not be of any use for them to wait any longer. But this came
true, for Mjolnir arrived that day.
(6) On July 25, 1914, this story was told to me by Mr.
Ivristjan Jonsson, shipowner at Gunnolfsvlk, thus :
In the year 1901 I went to Thorshofn in order to catch a
steamer there, by which I intended to take my workpeople to
Seydisfjordur. The Mjolnir was expected to touch at Thorshofn,
although it was not bound to do so, as Thorshofn was not in-
cluded in its route. I had fourteen people with me, and it
was therefore very important for me to get some information
concerning the ship. When I had been waiting for five days,
1 began to feel uneasy and thought that perhaps the ship had
sailed by on its way east. I then decided to send one of my
fishermen, Gisli 'Olafsson Frejdendal to 'Assel, where Joe lived,
with a message asking him to find out for me where the Mjolnir
was now. Gisli stayed with Joe overnight, but came to Thors-
hofn between 9 and 10 o'clock in the morning, telling me not
to worry, for the Mjolnir would arrive at Thorshofn at about
2 o'clock that same day. Joe had seen it in the night, sailing
past a low land. He said there had been a man standing on
the bridge, who resembled me somewhat, and wore his beard
the same way as I did. This description agreed with that
of the captain Endresen. The rest also proved true. The
ship arrived at Thorshofn about the middle of the day. I then
went on board and asked the captain whose watch it had been
at midnight, to which he replied : "It was I Avho was then on
the bridge." " Where were you then ?
" I asked. " I was
then saihng past the island of Flatey." And thus this all agreed
with what Joe had said.
Kristjan Jonsson.
(c) Evidence of Gudm. Finnbogason, Ph.D. :
Reykjavik, September 9, 1914.
I was a passenger on board the Mjolnir in the autumn of
1901, when the above incident took place. I remember that
the ship was about a week behind its appointed time. I went
ashore in the first boat together with Thorsteinn Skaflason from
Seydisfjordur and some others. Th. Skaflason and I went straight
up to Snabjorn Arnljotsson's house, where we had breakfast.
I remember that Mr. Sn. Arnljotsson told us when we came that
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 73
he had known that the Mjolnir would come that day, as Joe
had seen it passing a flat island in the night ; I think he said
at 3 o'clock, and we concluded that it was the island of Hrisey.^
This is all I remember concerning this.
GUDM. FiNNBOGASON, Ph.D.
I have not yet received any answer to my letter from the
other witness, Editor Th. Skaflason, Seydisfjordur.
I have neither been able to find Gisli 0. Frejdendal nor
the captain mentioned in this story.
XII. The Missing Purse at Thorshofn.
(a) Statement by Adalsteinn Jonasson, farmer at Hvamnmr.
HvAMMUR, July 21, 1914.
It was in the butchering season, in the end of September or
the beginning of October, 1913, that I employed the farmer Vigfus
Josefsson of Kiida to slaughter sheep for me. Early in the day
he took off his jacket and laid it on the wall, and in his jacket-
pocket was a purse containing 17 crowns (Danish) and 10 ore.
About four o'clock in the afternoon he paid a man 1 cr. out of
his purse, and putting the purse back in the pocket he laid the
jacket in the same place. In the evening when he was going to
take his jacket^ it lay flapping on the wall, and the purse was
gone. Vigfus came home and complained to us of his loss, and
we went out with a lantern and searched for the purse. But we
could not find it. That same evening I applied to Joe. He said
he would try to dream about the purse, although he thought it
was not of much use and that it would be better for me to try
to ask him in his sleep. Joe himself had been absent at the
time of the disappearance of the purse, as he had been sent to
search for some horses.^ As I lived in another house, I asked Joe
if he would not rather try to dream about the purse. In the
night Joe dreamt about the purse so distinctly, that I could from
what he told me give an accurate description of it to the owner,
which he said was quite right. Joe said at once after this first
1 It is more probable that the ship was sailing past Flatey.—Ag. Bj.
2 Asked when he had gone to fetch the horses, Joe replied that he had
gone before 4 o'clock and did not return before the sheep slaughtering was
over and the men were carrying home the meat.—Ag. Bj.
^
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apr. -May,
night that the purse would be found. He said he had dreamt
that he saw a man take the purse out of the jaclset pocket and
hide it in a pile of clods under the western wall of the so-called
"ice-depot." Joe had gone there pretty early in the morning,
and it seemed to him as if one of the clods had been displaced;
but he did not find the purse. The next night Joe dreamt of the
purse again, and when I asked him about it in the morning, he
said he had dreamt something similar to what he had dreamt the
night before, and the purse would be found. I went home that
day, in order to start off for the mountains to gather the sheep,
and I asked Joe to come and bring me the purse, if it should be
found. In the afternoon of October 9 I came back from the
mountains, and then Joe had just arrived. He brought me the
purse, from which nothing had been taken. He then told me that
he had dreamt of the purse in a new place the third (or fourth) night.
And that time he had dreamt of it outside an ice-house, which is
just by the ice-depot. I believe he told me that he dreamt of it
there under a slab ^ of stone. He had gone in the morning and
found it under the slab of stone. I then kept the purse for about
a fortnight, and returned it to the bailiff, Hjortur at 'Aland,
in compliance to the owner's request.
Andalstbinn Jonasson.
That same day [Jixly 21, 1914], I visited the bailiff, Hjortur
at 'Aland, and he told me that he had received the purse and
returned it to the owner, Vigfus at Kuda.
On July 25 I was at Thorshofa, and Joe showed me the
places where he had dreamt of the purse. The pile of clods
was still outside the " ice-depot." I also saw the ice-house,
but the so-called " Red Shed " had been moved off its founda-
tion and put on another. Nor did I see any stone slab to the
north of the old foundation. But it might easily have been
removed or thrown away, while the shed was being moved.
Joe took no witnesses with him when he was looking for the
purse.
1 On being asked, Joe told me that he dreamt of the purse outside the
ice-house the second night. Then a night passed in which he either did not
dream of the purse at all or at least very indistinctly. The fourth night he
said he dreamt that the purse was lying under a large slab of stone beyond
the so-called " Red Shed," but not, as above stated, beyond the ice-house.
There he dreamt of it the second night. He found it after the fourth night
under the stone.—Ag. Bj.
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 75
{h) The Evidence of Vigfus of Kikld.
KUDA, September 17, 1914.
I, the undersigned, hereby testify that the purse which I lost
out of my jacket-pocket, September 30, 1913, was found by
Johannes Jonsson at Thorshofn, containing just what had been
in it when it was lost.
Vigft5s Josefsson.
This last story, if true in every detail, shows that Joe has
been in full possession of his remarkable gift as late as in
the autumn of 1913. Since that he has not, as far as I know,
dreamt anything remarkable, nor has he been asked about
anything in his sleep, until in the summer of 1914, when I
tried to ask him about several things for three nights, at
Vopnafjordur, but without any positive result, as will be seen
in the part I give below of the protocol then made.
Experiments with Dreaming Joe.
[Professor Bjarnason first gives an account of an experiment
which was carried out in 1903 by a group of investigators, to
try whether Joe could perceive clairvoyantly some names
written on slips of paper enclosed in sealed envelopes. Special
conditions were devised to eliminate thought-transference. The
result of the experiment w^as not recorded in detail, but so far
as can be ascertained, Joe failed to read any of the slips.
As regards clairvoyance, therefore, the conclusion to be drawn
from this experiment is negative. In 1914 Professor Bjarnason
tried some experiments with Joe himself. On tw^o successive
nights, July 27 and 28, 1914, he arranged with a friend in
Reykjavik, Mr. 0., that the latter should perform some con-
spicuous and unusual action, whilst Professor Bjarnason, who
was staying with Joe at Vopnafjordur, should question him in
his sleep and endeavour to obtain some account of what Mr. 0.
was doing at Reykjavik. In this case also the result of th.e
experiment was negative. On the first night Professor Bjarnason
found it impossible to question Joe, because his sleep was so
light that he constantly woke. This habit of waking whenever
he is addressed has for some time been a serious difficulty in
the way of testing Joe's powers. Professor Bjarnason ascribes
it chiefly to the fact that Joe suffers much from rheumatism,
which makes him restless at night.
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research Apk.-Mat, 1915.
On the second night Joe slept more deeply and it was possible
to question him, but the answers he gave were vague and
showed no connexion with the subject of the experiment.
Towards the end of the night he had a dream about a town.
But his description of it, though not wholly incorrect as applied
to Reykjavik, was not sufficiently accurate to be evidential.
The third experiment on July 29, 1914, was also unsuccessful.
H. DE G. v.]
Before parting from Joe, I asked him to try to dream about
different things, but especially about a gold brooch which my
wife had lost some months before, and no one knew what had
become of it. I also asked him to try whether he could not
" appear " to me either asleep or awake. Up to the present
time this has been quite without any result. And Joe writes
to me in a letter dated September 24, 1914 :
" I have been very unsuccessful with those dreams. I have done
what is in my power to try to dream something of significance,
but without success. For this I blame the rheumatism which is
just going to do away with me in the night, so that I can
hardly ever get a good sound sleep. While this is the case, there
is not mucli to expect from my dreams."
Taking everything into consideration, my impression of
Dreaming Joe is this : For many years, especially between
20 and 30 years of age, he has been gifted with travelling
clairvoyance in a high degree, but since his marriage this has
gone on decreasing, and at present it is impossible to affirm
whether it still exists or not. Still this gift seems to have
distinctly revealed itself as late as in the autumn of 1913, and
perhaps it may yet manifest itself.
[To he concluded.^
NOTICE.
An Associate of the Society wishes to dispose of some books
bearing on Psychical Research, including a complete set of the
Society's Journal. A list will be sent on application to
H. V. Reade, Esq.,
32 Palace Gardens Terrace, Kensington,
London, W.
No. CCCXX.—Vol. XVII. June, 1915.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
An Icelandic Seer. Further Comments on Professor Bjarnason's Report. By
Helen de G. Verrall, "S
Dr. Hyslop on the History of Marthe B^raud. By H. de G. Verrall, - - - 82
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD AT THE HOUSE OF
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE
(in the Robert Barnes Hall),
1 WIMPOLE STREET, LONDON, W.
(Entrance in Henrietta Street),
071 FRIDAY, lUIY gt/i, 191 5, at 5 p.m.
WHEN
A Presidential Address
WILL BE DELIVERED KY
Professor GILBERT MURRAY, lld., Litt.d.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates ivill be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of ati
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Metnber
or Associate is allowed to invite one friend.
78 • Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June,
AN ICELANDIC SEER.
FURTHER COMMEXTS ON PROFESSOR BJARNASON'S REPORT;
By Helen de Gr. Verrall.
{Continued from the jmceding nnmher of the Journal.)
Professor Bjarnason concludes his report on Dreaming Joe
by expressing tlie opinion that " for many years, especially
between 20 and 30 years of age, he has been gifted with travel-
ling clairvoyance in a high degree." Now Professor Bjarnason
has the advantage of a first-hand acquaintance with the case, he
has visited most of the places to which his report refers and has
cross-examined many of the witnesses. His opinion therefore
must carry considerable weight. Nevertheless it may be doubted
wjiether, as the case now stands, the evidence will support -his
conclusion, for the absence of contemporary records makes it
impossible to obtain such detailed knowledge of the circum-
stances as might have excluded other hypotheses. Clairvoyance,
or telaesthesia, is " a perception of concealed material objects or
distant scenes," to be distinguished from telepathy, " a per-
ception of or communion with the thoughts and emotions of
other minds." It is clear that great precision of evidence will
be needed before we can determine whether a phenomenon
should be ascribed to telaesthesia rather than telepathy, to say
nothing of other possible contributory caiises, such as sub-
conscious observation and memory.
In order to show how these difficulties apply to the present
case, it is worth while to consider a few of the stories in
detail, especially the story of " The Missing Purse at Thorshofn
"
(see Journal, April-May, 1915, p. 73). which is much more
recent than any other recorded instance of success on the part
of Dreaming''Joe.
In the first place, it will be apparent that the story depends
for its interest entirely on Joe's good faith. There is evidence
to show that he did not take the purse himself or actually
see it taken, because he was absent from the farm at the time
of the theft. But there is nothing but his own word to prove
1915. An Icelandic See): 79
that he did not hnd the purse by some normal means, since
he " took no witnesses with him when he was looking for the
purse." Professor Bjarnason has expressed his strong con-
viction of Joe s complete honesty and trustworthiness, a con-
viction which appears to be shared by all those who have come
into contact with him, and is borne out by all the evidence
which Professor Bjarnason has been able to collect. I think,
therefore, that we may with some confidence dismiss the
hypothesis of conscious and deliberate fraud, and we may
assume that in the main Joe's account of his experience in this
case is correct, namely that he had some dream-impression in
regard to the whereabouts of the lost purse, and having made
search in accordance with this impression, eventually found the
purse in a position corresponding more or less closely with his
dream. The question remains—how far do these facts make it
necessary to assume some abnormal power on the part of the
dreamer ? It is hardly possible to give a complete and definite
answer to this question on the available evidence. We are
not told at all precisely the relative positions of the place from
which the purse was stolen and the place at which it was
found, but it may be that Joe s knowledge of the topography of
the farm and of the habits of those who frequented it might
lead him to conclude, either consciously or subconsciously, that
the purse was likely to be hidden near the ice-depot. Then,
again, it should be noted that he did not at once dream of
the purse in the right place. He dreamt that it was " in a
pile of clods under the western wall of the so-called '
ice-
depot,' " and having ascertamed next day that the purse was
not under the clods, he thereby narrowed the field of search.
If it is true that he described the purse accm^ately, never
having seen it before, the evidence for powers of a clairvoyant
or telepathic nature is strengthened. But no details of this
incident are given, nor any proof that he may not have seen
the purse at some time. It should be noted that on an earlier
occasion, when he was asked to find a lost purse, Joe objected
that he did not know what the purse looked like, and a
description of it was therefore given him. (See Journal, April-
May, 1915, p. 64.)
In several other stories also there are points in the evidence
which suggest that subconscious observation and memory may
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June,
have contributed to the result. The case of Little Vigfus's
Purse may be quoted as an example. (See Journal, April-May,
1915, p. 63.) In the first place, it is impossible to be certain
that Joe had not seen the purse lying behind the stove in the
north-room in a normal way, although very probably the
incident had made no impression on his conscious mind ; in
the second place, it will be noted that in his description of
the place where the money would be found, Joe said that a
bit of the rag containing it " might be seen sticking out of
the hole." Mrs. Gudrun says that this description was correct,
because, on making a careful search, she saw the rag sticking
out. But the objection at once occurs that what was visible
to Mrs. Gudrun was visible to others, and what certainty have
we that Joe had not noticed the rag himself and inferred sub-
consciously that something had been concealed in the wall ?
Such an explanation may not appear probable, but these flaws
in the evidence must be entirely removed (in a way that it is
not now possible to remove them) before we can admit that
the case affords a proof, or even a strong probability, for the
hypothesis of clairvoyance.
The story affording the strongest prima facie support for this
hypothesis is that of The Needlecase (see Journal, April-May,
1915, p. 67), but the evidence would be much strengthened by
obtaining the testimony of the servant who is said to have
questioned Joe. It is to be hoped that this may yet be
done.
In addition to the fact that the evidence in favour of clair-
voyance is inconclusive, there is a certain amount of negative
evidence against it. Allusion has already been made to the
failure of the experiment in 1903. (See Journal, April-May,
1915, p. 75.) Moreover, amongst the incidents which have been
omitted from the published report there are three cases in
which Joe was asked to find dead bodies, the position of which
was not known to any living person, but in each case he failed.
Such cases are especially favourable for obtaining proof of
clairvoyance, since telepathy from any living mind is ex hypothesi
excluded. The fact that in each of these three instances Joe
failed to locate the body is evidence, so far as it goes, against
his possessing clairvoyant powers. A brief report of one of
these incidents is printed below as a specimen
:
1915. An Icelandic Seer. 81
The Shepherd's Body.
{Statement by Gudm. Vilhjdhnsson, farmer at Sydra-Ldn.)
July 24, 1914.
One Sunday in the spring of 1897 we had an awful northerly
snowstorm. In the morning the shepherd at Eldjarnsstadir started
off for the sheep-cot, at some distance from the farm-house, at the
usual time in the morning, but he did not return in the evening.
At about noon the next day the storm abated, and men from
the neighbouring farms went to search for him. The search was
continued for several days without success. Then Joe was asked
to try to dream where the man was. He said that he saw the
man, and he was buried under a thick heap of snow beside a
big hill in the land of Hvammsstadir, which is about an hour's
walk to the south of Eldjarnsstadir. Joe said, moreover, that he
had been alive in the snow for three days. People thought Joe's
account very probable, but as there is in this place which Joe described
such a great number of hills all resembling each other, it is only
possible for those who are thoroughly acquainted with the place
to discern them from each other. Therefore no attempts were made
to dig for the body, and the search was given up for the time.
About a month or so later a shepherd from Eldjarnsstadir came
upon the corpse lying on a level field about half an hour's walk
to the eaut of Eldjarnsstadir. Thus all that Joe had said about this
proved sheer nonsense.
Gudm. Vilhjalmsson.
Conclusion.
My own impression, after reading the whole of Professor
Bjarnason's clear and careful record,^ is that we have in
Dreaming Joe a genuine case of sensory automatism, spon-
taneous in its origin and taking the form of visions seen in
sleep, or in a condition between sleeping and waking. These
visions can be influenced by the waking volition of the dreamer
or by questions put to him in sleep. There is little doubt, I
think, that in these circumstances knowledge is displayed
which the dreamer does not consciously possess, and as regards
the source of this knowledge, an explanation may perhaps
be found in sub-conscious observation and memory, or in
^ About a third of the report has been printed here, the remaining stories
being of the same general type.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June,
thought-transference. In some cases the evidence suggests
powers of a clairvoyant kind, but owing to lapse of time
the records are not sufficiently precise or detailed to support
any certain conclusion on this point. We are however much
indebted to Professor Bjarnason for bringing an interesting
case to our notice, and for the care and trouble he has
taken in collecting and sifting all available testimony.
DR. HYSLOP ON THE HISTORY OF MARTHE BERAUD.
By H. de G. Verrall. . ..
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research for
January, 1915, contains a criticism by Dr. Hyslop of my
article on The History of Marthe Beraud, published in Proc.
S.P.R., Vol. XXVII., p. 333 ff. On several points I am glad
to find that Dr. Hyslop and I are in agreement, but he puts
forward two objections which I will try to answer.
[a] Dr. Hyslop complains that in considering the hypothesis
of fraud I make no attempt to determine the fundamental
question of whether the medium is hysterical. According to his
opinion, we have no right to use the word "fraud" in a case
of hysteria. " Fraud," he says, "is a state of mind. It is not
a mode of action. Fraud is a conscious attempt to deceive and
assumes normal mental conditions."
When Dr. Hyslop says that fraud is conscious, he means
presumably that it is " potentially memorable," according to
the definition given by Mr. Myers in Human Personality, and,
therefore, that before imputing fraud we nmst ascertain that
there is no dissociation of consciousness. This proposition will be
generally admitted, if our object be to make a psychological
analysis of the medium's condition, or to estimate her moral
responsibility for her actions. But Dr. Hyslop does not appear
to take into account the fact that in writing the history of
Marthe Beraud I was primarily concerned to determine the
objective physical nature of certain observed phenomena, rather
than to discuss the psychological peculiarities of the medium
in whose presence they occm". The question which I tried to
answer was not so much, " What is Marthe Beraud's state of
mind when these phenomena occur ?
" as "In what do the
1915. Dr. Hyslop on the History of Marthe Beraud. 83
phenomena themselves consist ? What actually happens ?
"
It seems to me that we are not likely to give a clear answer
to either of these questions, unless we recognise that they are
distinct one from another.
We recognise the distinction clearly enough in other fields of
enquiry. Suppose, for example, that a solicitor appropriates to
his own use the securities entrusted to him, his clients will
assuredly accuse him of fraud, and he cannot escape the charge
by declaring that he suffered from a dissociation of consciousness
and thought the securities were his own. The question of
whether he is responsible for his actions has nothing whatever
to do with the loss to his clients, although it may affect our
moral judgement of the man himself. Similarly in the case of
Marthe Beraud, we have first to consider whether there is any-
thing deceptive about her phenomena, before considering the
mental or moral part which she plays in their production.
Now, various observers of these phenomena have put forward
the theory that in order to explain them we must have recourse
to an unknown physical law, such, for instance, as Dr. von
Schrenck-Notzing's theory of " ideoplasma," and, taken at their
face value, the phenomena do appear to require some hypothesis
of this kind. My main endeavour therefore was to analyse the
evidence for and against this hypothesis—the evidence, in fact,
for and against the hypothesis of a supernormal agency in the
case.
I will not quarrel with Dr. Hyslop over the use of a particular
word, but if the actual character of a phenomenon is concealed
so skilfully, and the appearance of another character is given
so exactly, as to suggest, almost beyond doubt, that these two
circumstances are purposive, we are justified, I think, in saying
that there is simulation, just as we speak of simulation in the
case of the protective colouring of certain insects, without imply-
ing any inoral judgment. In the case of Marthe Beraud, as I
said in my report, there seems evidence that the simulation, if
not conscious, is sometimes deliberate, in the sense that pre-
parations are made beforehand with a view to producing a
desired effect.
Briefly, I think that Dr. Hyslop confuses the issue by throwing
so much emphasis on the psychological aspect of the problem.
I maintain that in such cases it is legitimate, and indeed neces-
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research June, 1915.
sary, before we turn to questions of psychology, to determine,
if we can, the objective physical nature of the phenomena
concerned.
{b) The second criticism which Dr. Hyslop puts forward is
that whereas I reject Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing's theory of
" ideoplasma,'" I suggest that the medium may have some
abnormal power of bodily secretion. " Now I should like to
know," he says, " what difference one can conceive, or is
obliged to set up, between '
ideoplasty ' and an '
abnormal
power of bodily secretion.'
"
Admitting that one is not " obliged to set up " any difference
between ideoplasty and bodily secretion, since Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing's ideoplastic creations are ex hypothesi secreted from the
medium's body, I yet maintain that between Dr. von Schrenck-
Notzing's theory and mine there is a marked difference of
degree, if not of kind. For Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing suggests,
e.g., that by some process of thought the medium is able to
create from her body a material object having the appearance
of a patched and torn, but recognisable portrait taken from an
illustrated paper (see Proc, Vol. XXVII., p. 362 ff.). But
the processes of bodily secretion, as we know them, present no
phenomenon in the least analogous to this. When I suggested
that the medium might possess some abnormal power of secre-
tion, I had in view secretions analogous to those which exist
in normal cases, but presenting some unusual feature. I
referred, as an instance of my meaning, to Dr. Kafka's report,
in which he suggests that a liquid secretion of some kind issued
from the medium's breasts. We know that even in normal
cases secreta of various kinds, e.g. the sweat, may be induced
or modified by suggestion, and the theory which I tentatively
put forward was that in Marthe Beraud—an abnormal case
—
the secreta have been modified or increased in various ways to
a very unusual degree. I should, on this hypothesis, accept
Dr. Hyslop's statement as to " the ideas, conscious or uncon-
scious, of the medium being presumably active in causing the
secretion of the substance necessary to simulate materialisation,"
but I should modify this statement by suggesting that this
process of simulation (it will be noted that Dr. Hyslop himself
admits the term here) is frequently assisted by methods in
which bodily secretions play no part.
No. CCCXXI.—Vol. XVII. July, 1915
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
A Poltergeist Case, - 85
Alleged Visions on the Battlefield, - - 95
Contribution to the Library, - - 95
Supplementary Library Catalogue, 96
The Rooms of the Society at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., will
be closed during August and September, re-opening on Friday,
October 1st.
The next number of the Journal will be issued in October.
A POLTERGEIST CASE.
The following case was sent to us by a Member of the Society,
here called Mrs. Hazell. For reasons that will be understood
by the reader, pseudonyms are substituted for the names and
addresses of all the persons concerned, which are given in the
original documents now in our possession.
The incidents were of the usual poltergeist type, the dis-
turbances centring round a child in ill-health at the time.
Their chief interest lies in the rational treatment of the case,
which resulted in the entire disappearance of the phenomena
a week after their inception. During that time there were
indications of developments conforming to type, e.g. raps and
vibrations in the bed where the child was lying and, according
to the evidence of the servant (as stated by Mrs. Hazell), the
opening of cupboard doors. It will be noted that the servant, who
was much alarmed by the disturbances and suggested that thev
were due to a supernatural agency, was frequently with the child.
The witnesses are all educated persons : Mr. Hazell, Mr.
Jackson and Mr. Shaw are masters in a public school, and
Mr. Lambert is a solicitor.
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1915.
Mrs. Hazell writes :
Afril 18, 1915.
I wonder if the enclosed experience is interesting enougli for
record by the S.P.R. ? I send it just as I wrote it on March
19. . . . I have leave from Mr. and Mrs. [Jackson] to send it
you, on condition that, if published, names of places and people
should be altered, and that they should not be " worried." They
are naturally anxious, and so am I, that their little daughter
[Beatrice] should forget all about it as soon as possible. . . .
[Beatrice] is a very nice little girl, and they naturally want to
check this development, due to her state of health, as speedily as
possible. When I left on April 10 nothing further had happened.
The account enclosed is as follows :
March 19, 1915.
On Monday, March 8, 1915, in the afternoon, Mrs. W. Jackson
called on us with her two children, Beatrice, aged fourteen, and
Marie, aged about five, to tell us of a remarkable noise which had
suddenly begun to make itself heard in their house in the evening,
for the first time on the previous Saturdg-y, March 6. She
described it as a sort of loud and rather prolonged grunt, some-
thing like the noise that might be made by a pig or some other
animal if it wasn't feeling quite well, and it sounded apparently
all over the house in various rooms, upstairs and down, and on
the stairs, etc. It had occurred again on Sunday evening. They
were all very puzzled and beginning to be even a little alarmed,
and their servant was already distinctly frightened by the mysterious
sound. Would we come over this evening and see if we could hear
it and could suggest an explanation.
We agreed to go over about nine o'clock, but as we were sitting
at dinner soon after eight, we got a message from Mrs. Jackson
to the effect that the noise had started again about half-past
six and had been going on at intervals ever since, and would
we come at once, if we could, as it might stop later on. So we
finished our dinner hurriedly and answered the summons. For
about a quarter of an hour after we got to the house we heard
nothing. Mrs. Jackson and my husband and myself were all
gathered together in the drawing-room, with the doors open, and
Beatrice was hovering about near us, sometimes in the room
with us and sometimes outside. As the noise had now apparently
ceased downstairs, Mrs. Jackson and I went to the landing
July, 1915. A Poltergeist Case. 87
upstairs, leaving my liusbaud to smoke and listen in the drawing-
room. We stood about for some minutes listening, all in vain ;
wlien suddenly came a hail from my husband below
—" Theit it is.
I heard it then ; did you hear it ?
"—" No, where was it ?
"
He indicated the direction of the sound (I forget exactly where he
said it seemed to come from), and said he had been standing
alone in the doorway between the dining-room and drawing-room
when he heard it.
In a few minutes it occurred again, and that time we all heard
it. Mrs. Jackson and I were still standing on the landing upstairs,
and the sound seemed to come from the passage below. It was
quite loud and immistakable. Beatrice was at that time some-
where downstairs. Soon we heard the sound again, twice, and
then it seemed to me to issue from a bedroom behind us, in
which little Marie lay in her cot, listening also for the sound and
evidently rather excited, but apparently not alarmed. She also
heard it, and said it seemed to her also to be in her room, but
her mother said it sounded to her as if it came from upstairs,
just outside the child's open bedroom door.
I forget how many times we heard it that evening—a good
many times altogether, and every time it was exceedingly difficult
to locate the sound. Beatrice was never in sight when we heard
it, though she flitted about downstairs and up at intervals, or
called up to us, or down to us, to ask us if we had heard it.
Even after she had gone upstairs to her bath, and when we were
downstairs, we heard it once or twice.
By this time Mr. Jackson had come in and corroborated all his
wife had told us.
We suggested all the possibilities we could think of: (1) escaping
air from some old gas pipe (it is an old house, which has been
much altered at various times) ; (2) water in a waste-pipe ; (3)
practical joking by the servant ; (4) a noise made by their next-
door neighbours. As to (1), they did not think it likely, but
admitted that the sounds never came till after the gas was lighted,
so they eventually agreed to test that question the next night by
not lighting the gas. As to (2), there appeared to be no con
nection with any water arrangements, as the sounds seemed to go
on quite independently of the use of the bathroom or other pipes.
But the bath-water is heated by a geyser, so they would test
that too the next night by not heating the water for the bath.
As to (3), they had had the servant for 2| years and nothing
8S Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1915.
had ever happened before, and she was obviously frightened and
inclined to attribute the noise to some supernatural agency
—
asking Beatrice, for instance, whether her grandmother was quite
well, and thus hinting at a possible explanation of the sound.
As to (4), the walls of the house were thick, and they never
heard any sound at all from their neighbours.
After Beatrice had gone upstairs to bed, we asked Mr. and
Mrs. Jackson to tell us when and where they had first heard the
sound. They agreed that it was on Saturday evening when they
were sitting in the drawing-room and Beatrice was in the passage
just outside, with the door half-open between them. Suddenly
the sound occurred, and Beatrice exclaimed in a startled voice,
" Mummy, did you hear that ? What is it ?
" " Wnj, yes. You
did it yoiu'self, Beattie," they both replied. No, I didn't,
really. I don't know what it was." That was the beginning,
and both evidently thought that the sound proceeded from Beatrice,
but were afterwards shaken in their conviction by the child's
denials, and by the odd way in which the sound seemed to
travel all over the house. Mr. Jackson, however, said that for some
time at first he thought it was Beatrice playing a practical joke,
but he had given up that theory now. Both were evidently
utterly puzzled, and Mrs. Jackson was perturbed both for the
sake of the children and for the effect on the servant, who was
already frightened and would be sure to give notice presently if
the noise went on. Another woman who was in the house as
charwoman was also alarmed.
We could do no more that night, so we went home, after
having urged them to try the effect of doing without the gas and
bath-water the next night. Mrs. Jackson, by the way, had
admitted earlier in the evening that the noise was beginning to
get on her nerves, too, a little, because she thought now that it
sounded " human," not like an animal, or a noise made by a gas
or water-pipe. Secretly we agreed with her, but we did not say
so. On the way home we agreed that Beatrice must be at the
bottom of the trouble, and suggested that it might be a hysterical
manifestation of some sort, knowing that such things were possible,
and also that Beatrice has been lately in a highly nervous state
of health, and has been in medical hands for it. We agreed
further that we would not propound this theory at present to any
one else, but would await events and the result of experiments
with the gas and water, etc. I said that if it really was Beatrice,
ULT, 1915. A Poltergeist Case. 89
presently there would most likely occur further, and possibly
different, manifestations.
I forgot to add above that we, of course, asked both Mr. and
Mrs. Jackson if it was possible that the noise came from outside
anywhere, or could be caused by rats or mice. They said they
had searched outside the first night and found nothing, that they
were not troubled by rats or mice, and that in any case the
sound, whatever it was, was inside the house. Of that they were
sure, and for that matter, so were we.
The next day, Tuesday, March 9, we heard nothing, and purposely
did not go down to inquire, because we thought, if it were Beatrice's
doing, it was better not to show too much excitement about it.
On Wednesday morning (10th) I called to try and find Mrs.
Jackson at a time when I thought Beatrice would probably be
out, but I found no one at home, except the servant, of whom
I asked no questions. That afternoon, when I was out for a
walk with a friend . . . who had arrived at tea-time to stay with
us, we met Mr. Jackson, and asked him for news. He said they
had tried experimenting the night before with both gas and water,
and the noise had gone on just the same, and they were as far
from an explanation of it as ever. He added that they had
asked Mr. Shaw, the science master here, to come down after nine
o'clock this (Wednesday) evening to see if he could throw any
light on the subject. I took the opportunity of suggesting,
" Ask Dr. B ;
perhaps he could help," and Mr. Jackson went
off saying, yes, it might be a good thing to do so. I knew that
Dr. B had been attending Beatrice lately. I also sent a
message to Mrs. Jackson by her husband to the effect that I would
take her and the two little girls in to sleep in our house for a
few nights, if she liked to let me know in good time the next day.
Thursday passed (the 11th), and Mrs. Jackson sent no message,
so I concluded she did not want to come, and that perhaps Mr.
Shaw had suggested some solution. We heard nothing more that
day, but on Friday afternoon (the 12th) Mrs. Jackson again
called on us at tea-time, this time alone. Mrs. Jackson had
tea with us, and said she had come again about the noises,
because she was now getting seriously perturbed. Mr. Shaw had
spent part of Wednesday evening with them and had heard the
noises, and suggested that they might be due to a waste-pipe,
and asked them to get the plumber to come in and make some
alteration to the " trap " arrangements of the pipe. So they called
00 Journal of Society for Psychieat Research. July, I9i5.
in Harding, who refused to alter the pipe, saying it was perfectly
all right, and that if he made the desired alteration it would
only make the pipe dangerous and let sewer-gas into the house.
AVliile he was in the house he heard the noise, and thought it
proceeded from Marie, Mrs. Jackson's little girl, and said so.
Mrs. Jackson said no. she was sure it was not, and Harding
stayed for some time on the stairs, listening for the noise again.
I cannot remember whether Mrs. Jackson said he did hear it again
or not, but she went on to say that she and Mr. Jackson were
now coming to the conclusion that the noises had somethins; to
do with Beatrice. We asked why, and she told us that not only
were the old noises continuing, but there were fresh developments.
After Beatrice had gone to bed on Thursday night, her mother
ran upstairs to look at her in bed and see that she was sleeping
quietly, as she often does. She foimd her apparently asleep, but
restless. Suddenly, as she stood looking down at her, a clicking
sound, like that made by a person snapping his fingers, appeared
to come from the bedstead. At first Mrs. Jackson though-: she
must be imagining it, but it occurred again, and she put her
hands on the bedstead and felt it vibrating. vShe sat down for
some time by the bed determined to wait and watch, and make
sure about it. The noise occurred again, Beatrice apparently
asleep and motionless, and she again felt the bedstead vibrating
and heard it clicking, even while she held one of Beatrice's hands
in her own. Then she knocked on the floor as a signal to Mr.
Jackson, and he came up and heard the sound and felt the bed
vibrating too. They roused Beatrice with some difficulty out of
an apparently heavy sleep, and after she woke up she, too heard
the sound and asked them if they heard it.
Besides this bed-clicking noise, Mrs. Jackson said they had
heard at least once (I am not sure if she said oftener) a loud
knocking noise, and she rapped hard four times on the table to
show us what it was like. Also the same evening, after Beatrice
was in bed, they had heard a loud noise, I think she said
twice, like some one hitting the partition wall on the stairs very
hard with the open hand. The servant was by this time so
terrified that she would not sleep alone, and Beatrice had had
at first to sleep with her, and now the servant was sleeping out,
having refused to sleep in the house any longer. The noises were
getting on all their nerves, and Mrs Jackson said she was getting
very worried about it, and did not know what to do for the best.
July, 1915. A Poltergeist Case. 91
Now, at last, as she had said herself that the sounds appeared
to be connected with Beatrice. I told her something of what I
have read of such occurrences and urged her to tell Dr. B
about it, because if it was Beatrice doing it, it was due to her
state of health and ought to be checked at once. It was quite
a new idea to her that a child, or any person, could do such
things and be apparently unaware that she was doing them, and
she promised to see Dr. B and get him to come round that
night to their house. It was too late, we agreed, for her to
bring the children to us that evening, and I also wanted her
to consult Dr. B fii'st and see if he thought it wise, so I
said I would take them in on Saturday for the week-end, or a
few days, if necessary, and she went away.
On Saturday, the 13th, I went soon after breakfast to see
Mrs. Jackson and to ask her if they wanted to come. She told
me she was in a state of great indecision as to what she ought
to do ; that Dr. B had been to their house on Friday night
for a short time, but had heard no noises, and had promised to
return later, but had not done so ; so she concluded he had been
prevented. He agreed that Beatrice might be causing the sounds,
and said that if it turned out to be so, it would be a good
thing to take her up to London to see a specialist. In the
mean time he saw no objection to their all coming over to stay
with me. So I said I would go and get ready for them, and
asked what I should tell our servants to explain their sudden
arrival. This led to a further discussion of all the little difficulties
of the situation, and eventually Mrs. Jackson decided that it would
be better to take the children away somewhere out of the place,
and we thought of . That seemed a good idea, and she said
she would go that afternoon and see if Mrs. W could take
them in. In the course of this conversation Mrs. Jackson said,
" I don't know if I was wise, but I told Beatrice that I thought
she was making these noises herself." Beatrice said, " How could
I, Mother ?
" and Mrs. Jackson explained that it is possible for
people to make such noises and not know that they did it, which
apparently surprised Beatrice.
After this we heard no more till Monday, the 15th, when I
met Beatrice in the street, and she told me that they were all
three going to that afternoon for a week. I congratulated her,
and said it would be nice, and sent my love to her mother and said
no more, and Beatrice did not volunteer a word about the noises.
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1915.
On Monday night, after they had gone, Ernest (my husband)
and Mr. Lambert went down to see Mr. Jackson and to inquire
how things were going on. The house was perfectly quiet, but
Mr. Jackson said it had been so since Saturday. The noises had
ceased on Saturday and had not recurred. On Saturday evening
he and Mrs. Jackson had kept Beatrice with them all the time
till she went to bed, and nothing had happened, and when she
was sent up to bed, Mrs. Jackson had said, " Now, Beattie—no
noises, mind !
" and there had not been any.
Mr. Jackson also described to Ernest and Mr. Lambert the
loud noises and raps they had heard, and gave them a fuller
description of what happened about the bed-clicking. He said
that he felt the vibration of the bed very distinctly even when
he lifted it up in his hands off its two end-feet. After they
roused Beatrice they moved her into another bed in her mother's
room, and when she was asleep again that bed started the same
clicking and vibrating. Mr. Jackson himself took the original
bed to pieces to see if he could find any screw or wire loose
anywhere, then, finding it all right, put it together again and
slept in the bed himself, and it was quite quiet.
I forgot to add that, when I was talking to Mrs. Jackson on
Saturday morning, she described how she had sent Beatrice and
the maid to do the bedrooms together, because the maid was
afraid to go alone, and that Beatrice also helped her in the
kitchen for the same reason. After both had been upstairs
together for a while, both declared that when they came back
to the kitchen they found all the cupboard doors open which
they had left shut when they went ripstairs. Mrs. Jackson said
they must have left them open, but they declared they did not.
This, I think, happened on Friday evening, or it might have been
Thursday. It was not later.
On Tuesday, the 16th, we heard no more, but on Wednesday,
the 17th, I met Mrs. Jackson at S station, and she said all
had been quiet at and there had been no disturbance of
any kind.
One more thing I forgot to add. I asked Mrs. Jackson again if
she were quite sure the noises could not have been made by the
servant or by the charwoman, and she disposed of that by saying
that they had occurred when they were out of the house, as well as
when they were in it.
[Signed] M. Hazell.
July, 191:3. A Polierf/cist Case. 93
To this account Mr. Ernest Hazell added the following note :
March 19, 1915.
This is perfectly acctirate as far as I Imow. It omits, however,
one curious fact told to me by Mr. Jackson. When Beatrice
was sleeping on a bed in her mother's room, that bed also began
to produce the clicking sound. When Mr. Jackson first entered
the room the sound was apparently coming from the head of the
bed. When he moved there, the sound also moved and seemed
to come from the foot of the bed. He then moved there, when
the sound at once came only from the head of the bed. I think
he tested this two or three times, the residt always being the
same, i.e. the sound always came from that part of the bed
from which he was furthest ofi'.
[Signed] E. Hazell.
The child's father and Mr. Lambert also endorse Mrs. Hazell's
account as follows :
May 11, 1915.
This is an accurate account of what Mr. Jackson told me when
I went to see him with Mr. Hazell.
[Signed] J. J. Lambert
May 24, 1915.
Found quite correct in every way.
[Signed] W. K. Jackson.
Mr. T. A. Shaw makes the following statement, written on
May 24, 1915, as to the noises in Mr. Jackson's house :
Present in house, Wednesday, March [10th], 9.30 p.m.-ll p.m.
9.30-10 p.m., in drawing-room with doors open. Heard unusual
noise twice, best described as a sort of grunt. As the sound came
through open door, it was difficult to locate exactly.
10-10.30 p.m. Stood upstairs at junction of two passages ; heard
similar noise again ; this proceeded from passage at end of which
was bedroom occupied by the child Beatrice Jackson, the door
being open. Lnmediately the sound ceased, the child half wakened
up, but was pacified by mother.
10.30-11, in drawing-room ; heard similar sound again, not so
violent and very difiicult to locate.
Carefully examined water-pipes, gas-meter, drain-pipes, etc.,
and came to conclusion that it was impossible for sound to have
proceeded from them.
94 Journal of Society for Pffychical ResearcJi. July, 1915.
Mrs. T. A. Shaw writes :
May 25, 1915.
I went to Mrs. Jackson's at 8.30 the same evening as my husband,
and heard the noises three times before he came. One of these
times it was most distinct and prolonged, and seemed to be just
outside the drawing-room door. Beatrice was upstairs, quite away
from us, but she called down, " Did you hear that. Mother ?
"
It was so loud and certainly sounded in a different part of the
house from where she was. The other two were fainter, but
distinct, but Beatrice was downstairs then and nearer to where
we heard them.
And later :
May 26, 1915.
I forgot to add that I stayed on at Mrs. Jackson's after my
husband came, and agree with all he has said.
Mrs. Jackson has kindly added the following statement
:
May 25, 1915.
Mrs. Hazell's account of what happened in our house and what
I told her is quite correct.
It has occurred to me that possibly a few remarks about the child
herself might help towards an explanation of things.
I should like to state that neither my husband nor myself
connected the noises with B. up to the very last night, and
to this day we have no definite proof of her having caused them.
I still find it difficult to believe that she could have made those
weird sounds ; indeed, but for what occurred on the last night,
I think I should refuse to connect her with them.
Mrs. Hazell has related how, on that night, I roused B. and
sent her to my room, because her bed seemed to be ticking in
a strange way and I wanted to try and find out what caused
this. I was just outside my room when I heard a loud, distinct
thumping on the wall (it is made of canvas and laths just there).
I went straight into the room, to find B. apparently fast asleep.
When roused, she denied having made the noise, but said she had
heard it. I mention this in detail again, because it was the
first intimation we had that the child was, subconsciously, " play-
ing tricks " on us. There was no possibility of any other person
or thing having caused this noise, only my husband and self and
the two children being in the house at the time From that
moment we realised that B.'s nervous system must be seriously
JOLY, 1915. A Poltergeist Case. 95
afiected, and tliat it was possible that she might have been at
the bottom of everything. Nothing further happened, and there
the matter rests.
I may add that B. is a lively girl, normal in every way, and of
average intelligence, though not gifted. For the last two years
she has not been able to bear any mental strain, and was obliged
to leave school last November owing to a complete nervous break-
down, accompanied by nightmares of a violent character. Her
general health, however, soon improved at home and, except for
these occurrences in March, she seemed in normal health.
Gebtbude Jackson.
ALLEGED VISIONS ON THE BATTLEFIELD.
A LARGE number of enquiries have reached us as to the
authenticity of the alleged visions of angels, etc., seen on the
battlefields in France, and in many cases the enquirers have
sent us copies of accounts that have appeared in a number of
newspapers, parish magazines, etc.
Practically all these accounts are identical, beginning " Last
Sunday I met Miss M., daughter of the well-known Canon M.,
and she told me she knew two officers, both of whom had
themselves seen the angels. ..."
On first receiving the account, we wrote to Miss M., asking if
she could put us into communication with these officers. She
replied, " I cannot give you the names of the men referred to
in your letter of May 26 [1915], as the story I heard was quite
anonymous and I do not know who they were."
It thus appears that the account was repeated and circulated
on purely hearsay evidence ; and there is reason for believing
that it was founded on the story of visionary archers led by
St. George, which was invented by a journalist, Mr. Arthur
Machen, and published in the Evening News.
If, however, any of our readers can obtain first-hand accounts
from the witnesses of any actual apparitions, we should be very
glad to receive them.
CONTRIBUTION TO THE LIBRARY OF THE SOCIETY.
We are greatly indebted to Mr. H. V. Reade, an Associate of
the Society, for a gift of books, some of which are rare and
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jolt, 1915.
valuable, to the Library. The books are included and specified
in the Supplementary Catalogue printed below.
SUPPLEMENTAEY LIBRAEY CATALOGUE.
Books added to the Library since the last list, Joctrnal, April, 1914.
[R]*Agrippa (Henry Cornelius), De Vanitate artium et scientiaruni. [n.d.]
Alexandre-Bisson (Juliette), Les Phenomuiies dits de Materialisation.
Paris, 1914.
[R] *Artemidorus. De Soraniorum Interpretatione. 1544.
*Bell (Hesketh J.), Obeah. Witchcraft in the West Indies. London, 1893.
tBennetts (Rev. H. J. T.), Visions of the Unseen. London, 1914.
tBergson (Professor Henri), Dreams. Translated from the French by
Edwin E. Slosson. London, 1914.
tBruce (H. Addington), Adventurings in the Psychical. Boston, 1914.
tCarrington (Hereward), Problems of P.sychical Eesearch. London, 1914.
[R]*Casaubon (Meric, D.D.), A Treatise proving Spirits, Witches and
Sujjernormal Operations. London, 1672.
*Dee (Dr. John), The Private Diary of Dr. John Dee. Edited by J. Orchard
Halliwell, F.E.S. London, 1842.
tFreud (Dr. Sigmund), The Psychopathology of Everyday Life. Translated
by A. A. lh\U, M.D. London, 1914.
**Hartmann (Eduard von), Spiritism. Translated by C. C. Massey.
London [n.d.]
*Hutcliinson (Francis, D.D.), An Historical Essay concerning Witchcraft.
2nd edition. London, 1720.
*Jennings (Hargrave), The Eosicrncians. 2 Vols. London, 1887.
[R]*Jurieu (Pierre), The Eefieclions of Monsieur .Jurien npon the Strange
and Miraculous Exstasies of Isabel Vincent. London, 1689.
Maeterlinck (Maurice), Our Eternity. Translated by Alexander Teixeira
de Mattos. London, 1913.
t The Unknown Guest. Transhited by Alexander Teixeira de
Mattos. London, 1914.
jPrince (Morton, M.D.), The Unconscious. New York, 1914.
Schrenck-Notzing (Dr. Freiherr von), Der Kampf um die Materialisations-
Phanuniene. Mnnich, 1914.
Seybert Commission on Spiritualism (Eeport of). Philadelphia, 1887.
Spiritual Healing. Eeport of a Clerical and Medical Committee of Inquiry
into Sjiiiitnal, Faitli and Mental Healing. London, 1914.
tStanton (Horace C, D.D.), Telepathy of the Celestial World.
New York, 1913.
[R] *Truesdell (John W.), The Bottom Facts concerning Spiritualism.
New York, 1884.
Turro (R.), Les Origiues de la Connaissance. Paris, 1914.
[R] *Wieri (Joannis), De Praestigiis Daemonum. Basle, 1577.
* Presented by H. V. Rcade, E.sq. f Presented by the Publisher.
** Presented by Mrs. H. Sidgwick. [R] indicates for reference only.
Nos. CCCXXII-III.—Vol. XVII. - October-November, 1915.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, .--.98
Meeting of the Council, -98
General Meeting, 99
" A Thinking Dog," 99
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22nd, 191 5, at 5 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
" Some Recent Cases of Premonition
"
WILL BE READ BY
The Rev. M. A. BAYFIELD.
N.B.
—
]Yo Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates ivill be asked to sign their names on entering.
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct. -Nov.
[Oiving to the fact that public interest is now so largely centred
tipon the war, it has proved unusually difjficidt to obtain material
for the Journal. Hence the delay in its appearance and the
smallness of the present number. Moreover, a case which we,
had lioped to 'print now has had to be held over for further
investigation.']
NEW MEMBEKS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Buist, Mrs., Swalcliffe Lea, Banbury, Oxfordshire.
Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of, Hamilton Palace,
Lanarkshire, Scotland.
Montague, Mrs., Penton, Crediton, Devon.
BOGAERDE, L. VAN DEN, c/o Eastern Extension Telegraph Company's
Station, Singapore, Straits Settlements.
Duff, J. R. K., 100 Sunningfields, Hendon, London, N.W.
Grey, Ernest H., 261 Essex Road, Islington, London, N.
HiLLSMiTH, Mrs. Montford, Ragged Place, South Danbury, New
Hampshire, U.S.A.
Lyall, Mrs., 6 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square, London, W.
Sweeney, H. J. P., 16 Cromwell Avenue, Highgate, London, N.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 135tli Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, July 9th, 1915, at 6 p.m. ;
the President, Professor Gilbert Murray, in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Right
Hon. G. W. Balfour, Sir W. F. Barrett, Rev. M. A. Bayfield,
Sir William Crookes, The Hon. Everard Feilding, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt,
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidg-
wick, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey ; also Miss Alice Johnson,
Research Officer, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
.1915. Meeting of the Council. 99
The Minutes of last Meeting of the Council were read
a,nd signed as correct. Three new Members and six new
Associates were elected. Their names and addresses are given
above.
The monthly accounts for March, April, May, and June
were presented and taken as read.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 145th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Robert Barnes Hall of the Royal Society of Medicine,
1 Wimpole Street, London, W., on Friday, July 9th, 1915,
at 5 p.m., the President, Professor Gilbert Murray, in
the chair.
The President delivered an address, which will be published
latei- in the Proceedings.
A "THINKING DOG."
[We have received from Mr. J. A. Frostick, of Christchurch, New
Zealand, an Associate of this Society, an interesting account
of a bhnd dog which is said to answer questions intelKgently
by barking. The feats of this dog recall those of the " think-
ing horses " of Elberfeld (one of which, it will be remembered,
was also blind), and of the " thinking dog " of Mannheim.
It will be seen that in the case here reported, the evidence is
open to the same objections as were raised in the earlier cases :
the animal usually gives his answer to a question by repeating
some simple action, such as stamping the foot or barking a
certain number of times. If, therefore, we could suppose
that a signal were given him when he should stop, no remark-
able degree of intelligence would be required for his perfor-
mance, but only keen powers of observation. We need not
bring the bona fides of the experimenters in question by
supposing that the signal is given consciously, since there
is abundant evidence—for example, in muscle-reading experi-
ments—that slight indications unconsciously given can be
readily perceived.
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct.-Kov.
In the case of the Elberfeld horses, it was said that the
animals could answer questions the nature of which was
not known to any person present. That is not alleged in
the present case; in fact, there is evidence to the contrary.
As the case stands at present, therefore, the dog's performance
can be explained by supposing that he responds to some
kind of indication unconsciously given. Since he is blind,
this indication is probably auditory—perhaps a slight change
of breathing—and it may be that the dog's blindness makes
his task easier by saving him from visual distractions. We
have written to Mr. Frostick suggesting that some further
experiments should be tried to test this hypothesis. But
since communication with New Zealand is a lengthy process,
we have decided to print this preliminary report while awaiting
further developments. In addition to Mr. Frostick's report,
we also publish some extracts from an article which appeared
in a New Zealand paper, The Lyttelton Times, giving an
account of a public performance by the dog. It should be
said that his owners have never exhibited him for money
except for a charitable purpose.
Members of the Society will recollect that a paper on the
Elberfeld horses was read at a meeting in 1913, and a short
report of it was published in the Journal, Vol. XVI., p. 98 If,
A short account of the Mannheim dog, by Dr. F. C. S.
Schiller, also appeared in the Journal, Vol. XVI., p. 244 ff.
Any further investigation into either of these cases is at
present precluded by the war. Ed.]
Letter prom Mr. J. A. Frostick.
June 16, 1915.
At the request of one of our Members, Mr. Richard Thorp,
of Napier, N.Z., I herewith send you particulars of the powers
possessed by a most remarkable dog, owned by Mr. William
Smith McGibbon, Kilmore St., of this city.
Accompanied by my daughter, I visited the house of Mr.
McGibbon on Saturday evening last, June 12th.
The dog is a small black and tan terrier, between five
and six years old. It was found by its present owner about
five years ago in a semi-starved condition and was taken in
1915. A "Thinking Dog." 101
and cared for. Nothing remarkable was noticed for about
a year, when it gradually went blind, and has been for years
quite sightless.
It always had the habit of begging for food, but after
it went blind it would bark for a piece—always one bark.
One day the owner said, " Bark twice, Darkey, and you
shall have two pieces," which he immediately did. This was
considered remarkable, because it was repeated on several
occasions and under different conditions. It was then dis-
covered that the dog apparently possessed almost human
intelligence, answering questions by a succession of short,
sharp and decisive barks.
The dog sits on a chair, is very quiet, and somewhat shy
—
sometimes a little difficult to get started with his work,
especially when strangers are present. Occasionally he takes
a dislike to individuals, and if so, will not work at all, but
this happens very seldom.
Mr. McGibbon finds it best to ask a few questions that
the dog has answered before. It appears to get the dog quiet
and confident
:
" How many feet have you ?
" - -
(4)
" How many eyes ?
" - - - -
(2)
" How many ears ?
" - - - -
(2)
All these he answered without hesitation, but when asked
" How many tails ?
" he always gives two barks.
These and other similar questions were answered instantly
in my presence :
Divide 12 by 3 - - - - 4 barks.
Count 12 - - - - - 12 „
Take 2 from 12 - - - - 10 „
Divide 100 by 25 - - - 4 „
Divide 1000 by 100 - - - 10 „
How many sixpences in half a crown ? 5 barks.
If you spent one sixpence out of half a crown, how many
sixpenny pieces would you bring back ? 4 barks.
How many roods in one acre ? How many furlongs in
one mile ? How many ounces in one pound avoirdupois ?
How many troy ounces ? How many lbs. in one stone ?
What is the day of the month ? What is the month of the
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct. -Nov.
year ? What is the year over 1900 ? Every answer was
promptly and correctly given.
Then I was permitted to frame the questions :
How many letters in Frostick ? 8 barks.
What is the time by Mr. Frostick's watch, nearest hour ?
9 barks.
Is the minute hand before 9 or past 9 ? 4 barks.
How much past ? 3 barks. This was quite correct. My
watch was exactly 9.3. It was not the correct time, my
watch being two minutes fast of town time.
I then asked him, " What is my age over 50 ?
" He gave
8 barks, which is correct.
The next question : If you wrote down one million in
figures, how many naughts would you use 1 (6.)
Up to this point every answer (except as to the number
of tails) was correct, but at this stage the dog commenced
to get a little restless and excited, and made quite a number
of mistakes.
How many gas-brackets in the room ? (4.) The number was 3.
What is the age of this lady visitor over 25 ? (3.) It should
have been 6.
How many coins in my pocket over 18 ? (6.) It should have
been 8.
How many buttons on the lady's boots ? (20.) It should
have been 22.
At this stage it was agreed to give the dog a rest.
After about ten minutes we started again, with most re-
markable results. I took from my pocket a bank-note, which
Mr. McGibbon did not handle, neither could he see the face
of it :
Darkey, Mr. Frostick has a bank-note. Whab is it worth
in pounds sterling ? (1.)
Spell one. (3.)
What is the number of the note, starting with the unit
figures ? The dog gave the barks, 6. 8. 10. 7. 5, which was
exactly right.
The next question was : add 4 to 6 and take off 8. (2.)
The next question : Can you tell us how many letters are
required to spell the name of the maker of Mr. Frostick's
watch ? (4.) Dent is the maker.
1915. A " ThinJcing Dog." 103
How many figures are there on the works of the watch ? (7.)
This was not quite correct, but it reads : No. 61152. This
totals 7. When asked what are the figures, the dog remained
perfectly silent. I then opened the works and looked at
the number, when the dog at once gave barks in the following
order, commencing at the unit figure : 6 116 2. He was
wrong with the second figure, but when I looked at it I
thought it was 6.
This ended my questions.
The owner asked the dog a few more usual questions, such
as Goodbye. (7 barks.) But, says Mr. McGibbon, Good Bye
is two words ;
separate them. (4, long pause, 3.) Good-night
was answered in the same way, and this ended the questions.
Mr. McGibbon says if he concentrates his thoughts the
dog can answer any question, if the answer be known to
Mr. McGibbon.
Mrs. McGibbon, Senr., can also get the dog to work, but
they have found that if Mr. McGibbon says, " Don't answer
that question, Darkey," no one can get him to do so.
The whole exhibition was remarkable, but the most significant
incident in my opinion was the watch. I knew the maker's
name was Dent ; I also knew that there were two letters
and five figures, indicating the maker's number, but I did
not know the number. The 4 barks for the name and the
7 barks for the number were instantly given, but no response
as to the figures until I opened the case and read them, when
he seemed agitated and could scarcely get the barks out
quickly enough.
I leave the theory for the Society to explain, but the facts are
exactly as stated.
To show you that public interest is being aroused, I send you
a copy of a local newspaper published last week. . . .
Extracts from Article in the Lytlelton Times,
June 12, 1915.
. . . Darkie was lifted by his master on to a small table,
in good view, and petted and soothed away from his natural
shyness. . . . We were informed by the master that Darkie's
remarkable gift of intuition or understanding, or whatever it might
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct. -Nov. 1915.
be called, was discovered quite by accident in the family to which
the little dog belongs ; and that the gift had only been cultivated
since that remarkable discovery. Then Darkle was put through
his paces. . . . Darkle answers his master's questions by a series of
short, sharp barks, very detached and distinct. The first questions
were simple, and led gradually up to more difficult ones.
" Now, Darkie, count three."
" Bow ! wow ! wow !
"
" Four." The answer was correct. From that various numbers
were mentioned, some by the master, and some by members of
the audience. In every case the answers were right, and then
the master proceeded to give Darkie small sums to do, such as :
" Six and four."
" Divide that by five."
" Twice eight. How much more is that than ten ?
" " Correct."
" Now give me the square root of sixteen."
" Bow ! wow ! wow ! wow !
" says Darkie.
" Spell good-night." " Bow ! wow ! wow ! wow ! wow ! wow !
wow ! wow ! wow !
" But you gave me that all in one word," says the master.
" Now put the hyphen in the right place."
Darkie gives his little short barks over again, pausing after
the fourth one.
Now comes a test where the dog has no words to guide him.
" I have put three coins on the table," says the master to
the blind dog. " Tell me how many shillings they make." Darkie
barks five times. Sure enough, the three coins were a florin,
a sixpence and half-a-crown.
A gentleman in the audience also tries this test. " I have
three coins here," he says. " How much do they make in shil-
lings ?
" Darkie barks twice, and the coins prove to be a shilling
and two sixpences. Another gentleman asks the date on a
coin in his hand. " How many more years than 1900 ?
" Darkie
gives five yaps. The date is 1905. . . .
In perhaps one case out of ten or twenty, Darkie went wrong
in his answers. But when his master would say, " You are quite
wrong, Darkie," he almost invariably gave the correct answer a
second time. ... So quickly did he reply in some instances, that
the questions were scarcely out of the interrogators' mouths before
the reply was forthcoming. . . .
No. CCCXXIV.—Vol. XVII. . .. Dkcembee, 1915.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Menibei'S and Associates, - 105
Meeting of the Council, ------- 106
Private Meeting, - - - 106
An Enquiry concerning " The Angels at Mons," 106
Case, lis
Correspondence, 123
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Lawson, James S., 58 Hewitt Street, Guelpb, Ontario, Canada.
Mendonga, Manuel Santos De, Goldenhill, Stoke-on-Trent.
Campbell, C. F., bih Seymour Street, Vancouver, British Columbia.
Dawes, Mrs. Frank, 11a Portland Place, London, W.
Dean, Frank, 1 Langham Street, Portland Place, London, W.
Evans, Maurice S., Hillcrest, Berea Ridge, Durban, S. Africa.
Glidden, Walter S., 13 Centre Street, Bath, Maine, U.S.A.
Green, Mrs., Northcot, Chesham Bois, Bucks.
Johnson, Miss F. C, 26 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W.
MORIER, Mrs., 6.5 Hamilton Terrace, London, N. W.
Morton, Miss Mary, Acland Hall, The College, Bingley, Yorks.
Pfau, Albert R., Junior, Mankato, jMinnesota, U.S.A.
Pollard, J. Ellery, L.Pv.C.P., etc., 7 Esme Road, Sparkhill,
.
Birmingham.
Wagner, W. Quinn, P.O. Box -11, Johannesburg, S. Africa.
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1915.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 136th Meeting of the Couucil was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Monday, November 22nd, 1915, at
4 p.m. ; the Right Hon. G. W. Balfour in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir W. F.
Barrett, Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Captain E. N. Bennett, the Hon.
Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C. Scott,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, and Mrs. A. W.
Verrall ; also Miss Alice Johnson, Research Ofiicer, and Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct. Two new Members and twelve new Associ-
ates were elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly accounts for July, August, September, and
October were presented and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
The 52nd Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20 Han-
over Square, London, W., on Monday, November 22nd, 1915,
at 5 p.m. ; the Hon. Everard Feilding in the chair.
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield read a paper on " Some Recent
Cases of Premonition," which it is hoped will be printed later.
AN ENQUIRY CONCERNING " THE ANGELS AT MONS."
By Mrs. W. H. Salter (H. de G. Verrall),
\In the following report the names of the various people con-
cerned have usually been omitted or else they have been replaced
by pseudonyms or initials. In one or two instances this has been
done because correspondents asked that their names should he
tvithheld, and in other cases the identity of the writer being a
matter of no moment for the purpose we had in view, we have not
asked permission to reveal it. We take this opportunity of thank-
ing all those who have assisted us in our enquiry, and especially
the Editor of ''The All Saints Clifton Parish Magazine."—Ed.]
Very widespread interest has been aroused by the stories
current during the past year of " visions " seen by British
Dec, 1915. An Enquiry concerning ''the Angels at Mons." 107
soldiers during the retreat from Mons. Many enquiries have
reached us as to whether we have received any first-hand
evidence of these visions, and it seems worth while to go into
the question at some length, not only with a view to deter-
mining, so far as is possible, what is the truth of the matter,
but also because the whole history of the case throws an
interesting light on the value of human testimony and the
growth of rumour. These points are of particular interest to
those concerned in psychical research, because it is upon
human testimony that their conclusions must to a great extent
be founded.
The tide of rumour was at its height in May and June of
this year, and of the reports which reached us about that
time a large number can be directly traced to an article
which first appeared in The All Saints' Clifton Parish Magazine
for May, 1915, and was there reprinted in July.
This article ran as follows :
Last Sunday I met Miss M., daughter of the well-known Canon
M., and she told me she knew two officers both of whom had
themselves seen the angels who saved our left wing from the
Germans, when they came right upon them during the retreat
from Mons.
They expected annihilation, as they were almost helpless, when
to their amazement they stood like dazed men, never so much as
touched their guns, nor stirred till we had turned round and
escaped by some cross-roads. One of Miss M.'s friends, who was
not a religious man, told her that he saiu a troop of angels
between us and the enemy. He has been a changed man ever
since. The other man she met in London. She asked him if he
had heard the wonderful stories of angels. He said he had seen
them himself and under the following circumstances.
While he and his company were retreating, they heard the
German cavalry tearing after them. They saw a place where they
thought a stand might be made with sure hope of safety ;
but,
before they could reach it, the German cavalry were upon them.
They therefore turned round and faced the enemy, expecting
nothing but instant death, when to their wonder they saw between
them and the enemy a whole troop of angels. The German
horses turned round terrified and regularly stampeded. The men
tugged at their bridles, while the poor beasts tore away in every
direction from our men.
a2
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. dkc, 1915.
This officer swore he saw the angels, which the horses saw
plainly enough. This gave them time to reach the little fort, or
whatever it was, and save themselves.
We received reports almost exactly identical with the above
from several other sources. It is worth noting that these
statements are ascribed to various authors, but taking into
account the fact that, save for a word here and there, all the
statements are verbally identical, we are justified in assuming
that they all originate from one source, probably the All
Saints' Magazine.
In each case the story is told on the authority of Miss M.,
who is said to have known personally the ofiicers concerned.
Accordingly we wrote to Miss M. to ask whether she could
corroborate these stories, and received the following reply :
May 28, 1915.
I cannot give you the names of the men referred to in your
letter of May 26, as the story I heard was quite anonymous, and
I do not know who they were.
It will be seen, therefore, that these reports, based on the
authority of Miss M., break down at a crucial point. They
prove to be no more than rumours which it is impossible to
trace to their original source. There is also another suggestive
point to note in this connexion.
The Vicar of All Saints' Parish, Clifton, when he sent us the
statement, which had appeared in his parish magazine and is
printed above, sent with it another report, attributed to a
certain Miss E. W., as follows :
A Hospital Nurse, who has been attending to a wounded British
Soldier, said to him the other day : Do you believe in God ?
"
He answered: " I do now, but I used not to. But ever since the
Battle of Mons my opinions have changed." Proceeding, he said :
" We had a terrible time and at last a company of us was
hemmed into a large chalk pit. We were quite powerless and
heard the German cavalry approaching. Suddenly I looked up and
encircling the top of the pit was a ring of shining Angels. As the
cavalry rushed up the horses saw them and there was a general
stampede. Our lives were saved and the Germans were put to
confusion."
Seven soldiers including officers saw the Angels. The soldier
Dec, 1915. An Enquiry concerning " the Angels at Mons." 109
gave the names and addresses and the nurse wrote and had the
story authenticated, one of the officers writing :
''
It's all perfectly
true, but it is too sacred to put in a paper, so it must not be
published."
This story was told me by Miss [Leonard], of .
E. W.
We have also received through a member of the Society,
Mrs. S., the following statement, which was sent to her by a
friend :
A hospital Nurse who has been attending to a wounded British
Soldier said to him the other day :
" Do you believe in God ?
"
He answered :
" I do now, but I used not to, but ever since the
Battle of Mons my opinions have changed. We had a terrible
time and at last a company of us was hemmed into a large chalk
pit. We were quite powerless and heard the German cavalry
approaching. Suddenly I looked up and encircling the toj) of the
pit was a ring of shining Angels. As the Cavalry rushed up the
horses saw them and there was a general stampede. Our lives
were saved and the Germans put to confusion. Seven soldiers
including an officer saw the Angels."
The Soldier gave the names and addresses and the Nurse wrote
to them and the story was authenticated ; one of the officers
writing says :
" Its all perfectly true but it's too sacred to put in a
paper." One of the officers was a friend of Miss M., Canon M.'s
daughter ; he was not a religious man before, but has been a
changed man ever since.
If this last statement is compared with Miss E. W.'s report
and the report in the All Saints' Parish Magazine, it will be
seen to be a combination of the two. The first paragraph and
the first half of the second are verbally identical with Miss
E. W.'s statement, but whereas Miss E. W. gives Miss Leonard
as her authority, in the account sent by Mrs. S. Miss M.
appears again as the source of the story.
One of the officers was a friend of Miss M., Canon M.'s
daughter ; he was not a religious man before, but has been a
changed man ever since.
There can be little doubt that this sentence is from the
same source as one which occui-red in the All Saints'' Magazine :
One of Miss M.'s friends, who was not a religious man, told her
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec,, 1915.
that lie saw a troop of angels between us and the enemy. He has
been a changed man ever since.
It has already been shown that Miss M. denies having any
authority in this matter. As regards Miss Leonard, one of our
members wrote to ask whether she could substantiate the story
attributed to her. He was referred by Miss Leonard to another
lady, to whom he also wrote ; but so far he has received no reply.
One other piece of alleged evidence in support of the
" Angels of Mons " may be briefly dismissed. In the Daily
Mail for August 24, 1915, there appeared a communication
from Mr. G. S. Hazlehurst stating that a certain Private
Robert Cleaver, 1st Cheshire Regiment, had signed an affidavit
in his presence to the effect that he " personally was at Mons
and saw the Vision of Angels with [his] own eyes." Speaking
of his interview with Private Cleaver, Mr. Hazlehurst said :
When I saw Private Cleaver, who struck me as being a very
sound, intelligent man, he at once volunteered his statement and
had no objection to signing an affidavit before me that he had
seen the Angels of Mons.
He said that things were at the blackest with our troops, and
if it had not been for the supernatural intervention they would
have been annihilated. The men were in retreat, and lying down
behind small tufts of grass for cover. Suddenly the vision came
between them and the German cavalry.
He described it as a " flash "... The cavalry horses rushed in
all directions and were disorganised.
In the Daily Mail for September 2, 1915, there appeared a
further communication from Mr. Hazlehurst to the effect that
in consequence of a rumour that Private Cleaver was not
present at the battle of Mons, he had written to the head-
quarters at Salisbury for information as to his movements, and
received the following reply :
* '
Records Office, Cheshire Regiment.
. . . (10515 R. Cleaver.) . . .
With regard to your enquiries concerning the above man, the
following are the particulars concerning him. He mobilised at
Chester on August 22, 1914:. He was posted out to the 1st
Battalion, Expeditionary Force, France, with a draft on September
6, 1914. He returned to England on December 14, sick.
Dec, 1915. An Enquiry concerning "the Angels at Mors." Ill
Mr. Hazlehurst concludes :
The battle of Mons was in August, 1914, and readers will draw
their own conclusions. Information sworn on oath is usually
regarded as sufficiently trustworthy for publication, but apparently
not in this case. . . .
So far, therefore, as concerns Private Cleaver and the other
evidence which has been considered up to this point, the
legend of the Angels at Mons remains insufficiently corroborated,
and the suggestion has even been made that it owes its origin
entirely to a story by Mr. Arthur Machen, called The Boivmen,
which first appeared in the Evening News of September 29,
1914, and, as its author himself affirms, was purely fictitious.
Subsequently The Boivmen was published in book form, and in
his preface to the first edition Mr. Machen supports the con-
tention that the source from which the legend of the " Angels
of Mons " sprang is no other than his own tale. In his
preface, however, to the second edition he says that, in con-
sequence of further evidence which has been brought to his
notice, he has modified this opinion. Apart from this evidence,
—which will be considered in due course,—one would have
expected that, had Mr. Machen's story been the sole origin of
the legend, the various versions of it that have been current
would have borne clearer traces of their origin. Those versions
which have been quoted above bear hardly any resemblance to
Mr. Machen's tale beyond the fact that the central incident in
each case is a supernatural intervention on behalf of the
British army. Shortly after the publication of The Bowmen in
book form, Mr. Harold Begbie published a pamphlet entitled
On the Side of tlie Angels, in which he set out to refute the
assertion that Mr. Machen was solely responsible for the reports
concerning the Angels at Mons. Mr. Begbie's object is to
prove " not that Angels appeared at Mons, but that before
Mr. Machen had written his fiction British soldiers in France
believed that Angels had appeared to them." We may there-
fore expect to find, as we in fact do, that Mr. Begbie's
evidence is not such as to throw any clear light on the precise
nature of the experiences which he relates. That is not
primarily his purpose, and the reports which he has collected
are in some cases given at second hand, and in others have
l)een described by the percipients only after an interval of
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, dec, 1915.
many months since the date of the experience, so that due
allowance must be made for inaccuracy of memory, the force
of suggestion, and other common sources of error. We have,
however, tried to get further particulars in all cases which
seemed likely to prove interesting, but the result has hitherto
been small. In one way or another many possible witnesses
have passed out of reach, and other witnesses do not feel
themselves able to assist us. It may, however, be of interest
to quote and discuss some of the best accredited reports,
together with such additional information as we have been
able to obtain about them.
In the Daily Mail of August 12, 1915, there appeared a
report of an interview with a wounded lance-corporal, whose
name was not given. His statement—quoted also by Mr.
Begbie—was as follows :
I was with my battalion iu the retreat from Mens on or about
August 28. The German cavalry were expected to make a charge,
and we were waiting to fire and scatter them. . . .
The weather was very hot and clear, and between eight and
nine o'clock in the evening I was standing with a party of nine
other men on duty, and some distance on either side there were
parties of ten on guard. . . . An officer suddenly came up to us
in a state of great anxiety and asked us if we had seen anything
startling. . . . He hurried away from my ten to the next party
of ten. At the time we thought 'that the officer must be expecting
a surprise attack.
Immediately afterwards the officer came back, and taking me
and some others a few yards away showed us the sky. I could
see quite plainly in mid-air a strange light which seemed to be
quite distinctly outlined and was not a reflection of the moon,
nor were there any clouds in the neighbourhood. The light became
brighter and I could see distinctly three shapes, one in the centre
having what looked like outspread wings ; the other two were not
so large, but were quite plainly distinct from the centre one.
They appeared to have a long loose-hanging garment of a golden
tint, and they were above the German line facing us.
We stood watching them for about three quarters of an hour.
All the men with me saw them, and other men came up from
other groups who also told us they had seen the same thing. . . .
I remember the day because it was a day of terrible anxiety
Dec, 1915. An Enquiry concerning " the Angels at Mons." 113
for us. That morning the Munsters had a bad time on our right,
and so had the Scots Guards. We managed to get to the wood.
. . . Later on the Uhlans attacked us and we drove them back
with heavy loss. It was after this engagement, when we were
dog-tired, that the vision appeared to us.
We wrote to the Lady Superintendent of the hospital at
which the man had been treated, to whom he was said to
have told his experience before it was published, and asked her
whether she could put us into communication with him. She
replied on October 28, 1915 :
The man about whom you enquire has left here and has failed
to answer my letter and postcard. I do not therefore know his
present whereabouts. When I hear from him again 1 will write
to you.
We have heard nothing further, and up to the present,
therefore, the rejiort, having reached us only at second hand,
does not conform to the standard of evidence which any
scientific enquiry demands. But assuming for the moment that
this report gives an accurate account of the lance-corporal's
experience, it would be a weak scaffolding upon which to
build up a theory of supernatural intervention.
It appears that, having had their attention directed to it by
an officer " in a state of great anxiety," the lance-corporal and
some of his companions saw a light in the sky, divided into
three parts, of which the central part resembled a figm-e with
outstretched wings. We are not told how, or by whom, this
resemblance was first observed, and nothing is easier than to
interpret a vague cloudlike shape according to one's fancy.
The lance-corporal tells us that there were no clouds in the
sky that night, but tells us nothing about smoke. It seems on
the face of it not improbable that a bank of smoke, which was
in some way lit up, might have been hanging " above the
German line," and it has to be remembered that men who are
" dog-tired," who have just repulsed one hostile attack and are
momentarily expecting another, are not likely to be in a state
conducing to accurate observation. The lance-corporal told the
Lady Superintendent at the hospital that " under the feet
of the three figures was a bright star and that when the
figures disappeared, the star remained." It was in fact a
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1915.
"real" star, and perhaps constituted the point de repere of the
illusion.
It is interesting to compare with the lance-corporal's state-
ment the following report in the Liverpool Courier (October 25,
1915) of a sermon by the Rev. C. M. Chavasse :
He had never yet got first-hand evidence on the subject, but he
had been told by a general, a brigadier, who was far from super-
stitious, that a captain and subaltern serving under him were
certain they saw something at Mons. They were men who would
never dream of seeing angels, but they said they saw something,
some bright pulsating light, which came between the little company
of Englishmen and a troop of charging Uhlans on their horses,
which frightened the horses so that they scattered and bolted,
while a little further along, where the British line was broken, the
German troops refused to advance, saying that they saw so many
English troops there, although there was not a man to oppose them.
Mr. Begbie also quotes several incidents reported by Miss
Phyllis Campbell in an article in the August number of the
Occtdt Review. Miss Campbell was working at a hospital in
France during the early part of the war, and she says that
several of her patients told her of the " visions " they had
seen on the battlefield. We wTote some time ago to Miss
Campbell asking whether she could give us any further
information or put us in touch with the soldiers to whom
these experiences had come, but we have not yet heard from
her. In any event, it does not seem likely that we should
now be able to get any first-hand knowledge of these cases,
and without this we cannot judge them.
We have communicated with several other people whom Mr.
Begbie quotes as having first-hand information on the subject
of these visions.
One writes that he is " not able to help us " ; another
refers us to a friend as the chief source of his information.
We have written to this friend, but received no reply. A
third correspondent writes that she is
not in the least concerned as to the proofs. ... I do not
really think it is the smallest use trying to bring these things
home to roost. They are revealed by God for individual need and
are not intended to become the talk and speculation of the
market-place.
Dec, 1915. An Enquiry concerning " the Angels at Mons."
Two other incidents remain which are worth relating. In
September of this year Mr. Machen received a letter from a
lieutenant-colonel at the Front, which was published in the
Evening News of September 14, 1915. The colonel's statement
was as follows :
On August 26, 1914, was fought the battle of Le Cateau. We
came into action at dawn, and fought till dusk. We were heavily
shelled by the German artillery during the day, and in common
with the rest of our division had a bad time of it.
Our division however retired in good order. We were on the
march all night of the 26th and on the 27th with only about two
hours' rest.
The brigade to which 1 belonged was rearguard to the division,
and during the 27th we took up a great many different positions
to cover the retirement of the rest of the division, so that we had
very hard work and by the night of the 27th we were all abso-
lutely worn out with fatigue—both bodily and mental fatigue.
No doubt we also suffered to a certain extent from shock ;
but
the retirement still continued in excellent order, and I feel sure
that our mental faculties were still ... in good working con-
dition.
On the night of the 27th I was riding along in the column with
two other officers. We had been talking and doing our best to
keep from faUing asleep on our horses.
As we rode along I became conscious of the fact that, in the
fields on both sides of the road along which we were marching, I
could see a very large body of horsemen.
These horsemen had the appearance of squadrons of cavalry, and
they seemed to be riding across the fields and going in the same
direction as we were going, and keeping level with us. . . .
I did not say a word about it at first, but I watched them for
about twenty minutes. The other two officers had stopped talking.
At last one of them asked me if I saw anything in the fields.
I then told him what I had seen. The third officer then con-
fessed that he too had been watching these horsemen for the past
twenty minutes.
So convinced were we that they were real cavalry that, at the
next halt, one of the officers took a party of men out to recon-
noitre, and found no one there. The night then grew darker, and
we saw no more.
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dkc, 1915.
The same phenomenon was seen by many men in our column.
Of course, we were all dog-tired and overtaxed, but it is an
extraordinary thing that the same phenomenon should be witnedsed
by so many different people.
I myself am absolutely convinced that I saw these horsemen
;
and I feel sure that they did not exist only in my imagination. . . .
It is interesting to compare with this statement a letter
from Lance-Corporal A. Johnstone, late of the Royal Engineers,
which was published in the Evening News of August 11, 1915,
as follows :
We had almost reached the end of the retreat, and, after
marching a whole day and night with but one half-hour's rest in
between, we found ourselves on the outskirts of Langy, near
Paris, just at dawn, and as the day broke we saw in front of us
large bodies of cavalry, all formed up into squadrons—fine, big
men, on massive chargers.
I remember turning to my chums in the ranks and saying
:
" Thank God ! We are not far off Paris now. Look at the
French cavalry."
They, too, saw them quite plainly, but on getting closer, to our
surprise the horsemen vanished and gave place to banks of white
mist, with clumps of trees and bushes dimly showing through
them. . . .
When I tell you that hardened soldiers who had been through
many a campaign were marching quite mechanically along the
road and babbling all sorts of nonsense in sheer delirium, you can
well believe we were in a fit state to take a row of beanstalks for
all the saints in the Calendar.
It will be seen that the colonel's experience and that of
Lance-Corporal Johnstone have much in common, but whereas
the latter finds the explanation in an illusion of the senses,
due mainly to physical fatigue, the former is convinced that the
horsemen did not exist only in his imagination. Although it is
not possible to prove that the colonel was mistaken, it will,
I think, be generally held that the weight of probability is
against him, especially in view of his admission that he and
his companions were " absolutely worn out with fatigue—both
bodily and mental," and that some effort had been necessary
" to keep from falling asleep on [their] horses."
Dec, 1915. An Enquiry concerning "the Angels at Movs." 117
In addition to the enquiries to which reference has been
made above, we have also written to a considerable number of
people who had been mentioned to us as possessing first-hand
information on the subject of these "visions," but in no case
have we succeeded in obtaining satisfactory evidence. Some-
times our letters have been unanswered, sometimes it has
transpired on enquiry that a story purporting to be at first-
hand was in reality only at second or even at third-hand.
The following is a typical case. Miss R. wrote to the secretary
as follows :
The day after I saw you I . . . saw Mrs, B. When talking of the
story of Mens, she said she had met a lady who told her she knew a
man who had seen the vision. I asked her to send me his name.
Mrs. B., on being asked for the name of the man, replied
:
... I have been told the name of one man who saw it [the
vision], but it was given me under strict secrecy, so I may not
teU it ; and then, again, it is not first-hand, for I did not hear it
from him. . . .
Another correspondent, in reporting to us his unsuccessful
efforts to track down a story, writes that " somehow, first-hand
knowledge seems to be purposely withheld," and we have
certainly found it very elusive, whether " purposely " so or not.
Summing up the evidence at om- disposal, the following
conclusions may be drawn :
(a) Many of the stories which have been cm'rent during the
past year concerning "visions" on the battlefield prove on
investigation to be founded on mere rumour and cannot be
traced to any authoritative source.
(6) After we have discounted these rumours, we are left with
a small residue of evidence, which seems to indicate that a
certain number of men who took part in the retreat from
Mons honestly beUeve themselves to have had at that time
supernormal experiences of a remarkable character. The best
piece of evidence of this kind is the statement of the colonel
who wrote to ]\Ir. Machen (see p. 115).
(c) When, however, we turn to the question of what grounds
there are for assuming that these experiences were in fact
supernormal, it must be admitted that these grounds are
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1915.
slight. In the last of the three narratives printed above, the
author himself, Lance-Corporal A. Johnstone, puts forward the
view that he and his friends were subject to a sensory illusion
due to extreme fatigue. When we remember that this con-
dition of fatigue was also present in the other two cases, it
seems not unlikely that the same explanation will account for
them. The best piece of evidence, as I have said, is that of
the lieutenant-colonel, and it may be that we have here a case
of collective hallucination rather than illusion. But whether
this is so, and whether the hallucination, assuming that it
occurred, was purely subjective or due to any external cause,
we have not evidence to show, nor does it seem likely that we
shall now be able to obtain such evidence.
In the main, therefore, the result of our enquiry is negative,
at least as regards the question of whether any apparitions
were seen on the battlefield, either at Mons or elsewhere. Of
first-hand testimony we have received none at all, and of
testimony at second-hand none that would justify us in assum-
ing the occurrence of any supernormal phenomenon. For we
cannot make this assumption, until we have established at
least a strong probability that the observed effects are such as
only a supernormal phenomenon could produce, and in the
present instance, as I have tried to show, all our efforts to
obtain the detailed evidence upon which an enquiry of this
kind must be based have proved unavailing.
CASE.
L. 1203. Collective Hallucination.
The following case, which appears to be one of collective
hallucination, was originally brought to our notice by Mr.
E. P. Larken, who has been for some years an Associate
of this Society. Mr. Larken wrote to us on July 23 of this
year telling us that he had received an account of her ex-
perience from one of the percipients, Miss Ernestine Anne,
and suggesting that we should obtain further information
from her. We wrote accordingly to Miss Anne, who sent
us in reply a detailed account of her experience and corro-
borative statements from the three persons who shared it,
her father, mother, and brother.
Dec, 1915. Case. 119
Since the experience occurred on July 6, 1913, the four
statements which we print below were all made about two
years after the event, but Miss Anne also sent us a short
paper written in September, 1913, that is, two months after
the event, for an Essay Club, and in all essential particulars
corresponding to the later account which we print here,
because its form is better suited to our present purpose.
Miss Anne's account is as follows :
Jtdy 28, 1915.
I visited the ruined Abbey of Jumieges on the first Sunday
of July in 1913 [July 6]. I was accompanied by my father,
mother and youngest brother. We arrived at the ruin about
3 p.m., and we proceeded at once to inspect the imposing-looking
ruin of the monastic church, called " I'EgHse Notre Dame." It
is the largest and most impressive example of Norman ecclesiastical
architecture 1 have ever seen. It was built cruciform, and the
right-hand " arm " of the cross joined on to another much smaller
church, which was used as the parish church and goes by the
name of " I'Eglise St. Pierre." The walls of this latter church
stand more or less intact, but only the nave of the monastic
Scattered
Stones^
Notr^ Dame
Church
Notre Dame
Church
Tower Tower
jumi6ges churches, i.
St Peters
*- Church
Tower Tower
JUMlkOES CHURCHES. II.
church remains ; and a small number of scattered stones mark
the place where the choir was once. Trees and shrubs cover
the spot where the presbytery once stood. After we had spent
some time in the Notre Dame ruin, we walked on into the Church
of " St. Pierre." We had been there about ten minutes admiring
this exquisite fourteenth century Gothic ruin, and 1 then wandered
away a short distance from my companions ; 1 suddenly became
aware of the sound of a large number of men's voices which
seemed to come from the open space on our left where the
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, Dkc, 1915.
few scattered stones marked the site of where the monastic
choir had been. The singing was very soft ; the air was quite
familiar ; I remember saying to myself twice : "I am imagining
this ! I am imagining this !
" and then the music " left " my
attention as I heard my father exclaim :
" Why, there are the
monks singing !
" I heard no more singing after that, so I
really only heard it for a few seconds. I was so struck with
the strangeness of the thing that I determined to pretend I
had heard nothing, until I learnt from my companions if their
experience had been the same as my own. I found this was
the case, and we agreed that the voices were chanting " Vespers
"
—that is to say, they were chanting a psalm in Latin. We
tried to think of possible " natural " explanations, but the present
parish church was a kilometre and a half from there—so the
caretaker told us—besides which, if the sound had come from
there, we should have heard it for longer than a few seconds.
It was a very fine day, and I do not remember that there was
any wind. We spent about half an hour longer near the ruins
without hearing anything else in such an extraordinary way.
I wrote an account of this shortly after it took place, which
has helped me to remember the facts very well indeed.
Ernestine Anne.
We have also received the following corroborative accounts :
BURGHWALLIS HaLL,
AsKERN, nr. Doncaster, July 28, 1915.
One Sunday afternoon about the beginning of July, 1913,
a party of us motored out from Rouen to view the ruins of
the old Benedictine abbey at Jumieges.
On arriving at our destination we found the small village
near by (and in fact the whole countryside) absolutely deserted,
the entire population having gone to a Grand Regatta Fete
which was being held at a town on the banks of the Seine three
or four miles away. .
-
Not a soul was to be seen about, beyond the concierge at
the lodge at the entrance of the grounds in which the ruins
stand. We wandered around a bit and presently entered what
might have been the chancel of the church in happier days.
Now there was nothing but bare walls, with the blue sky of
the heavens for a roof. We had not been there many seconds
before I became aware of the beautiful singing which appeared
Dec, 1915. Case. 121
to come from quite close to where we stood, and about half-
way up the ruined, blackened wall facing us.
It was as a choir chanting the psalms at Vespers in exquisite
harmony and softly. I could almost distinguish the very words
of the Latin.
I exclaimed :
" Hullo, the monks are singing !
" taking it
quite as a matter of course, and forgetting that I was not actually
in a church but only standing amidst the ruins of what had
once been one. Then somebody else in our party said some-
thing, and the singing stopped—very gently and very softly
—
as it had begun. Immediately after, we explored all around,
but there was no one about. Everything was deserted and
ourselves the only people near the place. The chanting, whilst
it lasted, was very superior to anything that I have ever heard
in any church, especially in France.
^^^^^^ L. S. Anne.
July 28, 1915.
It was on a Sunday in July in 1913. We motored over to
Jumieges. It was a lovely hot, clear summer's day.
We went into the ruins of the abbey by the west entrance,
and passed right up the great church from nave into choir
—
then turned off into the ruins of the parish church of St. Peter's,
which adjoins the abbey.
We were all four standing a few paces apart, looking at the
wonderful ruin, when I heard—very distinctly—men's voices
singing in the choir. When I think of it, I can hear them now
—
trained melodious voices, singing in harmony, the different voices
wonderfully balanced and trained. It seemed somehow quite
natural ; it had not yet dawned on me that it was super-
natural. I remained for some seconds held. The sounds were
just those of a choir singing under a vast vaulted roof.
Then my husband said :
" There are the monks singing !
"
Even then it seemed nothing very strange. I think it was because
we felt it was so strange that we spoke so little about it, though
we must have uttered exclamations of astonishment and ex-
changed experiences—as we have done since.
I may add that no human singing in the neighbourhood could
have conveyed the impression of what I heard, which was the
harmonies at the end of a plain chant, sung by a well-balanced,
perfectly trained choir echoing through a vast vaulted roof.
Edith Anne.
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1915.
July 30, 1915.
It was a Sunday in July, 1913, that I visited the ruins of
the abbey of Jumieges, with my mother, father and sister.
We entered the ruins by the west doorway, and proceeded
up the church in the direction of the choir. On reaching the
sanctuary, or rather what Httle remains of it, after spending
some time looking at the ruins, we turned through the south
wall into the smaller parish church of St. Pierre, which is alongside
the monastic church.
We left the parish church, after examining it, by the west
door, and were standing in the garth outside. I remember that
I was looking into some ancient graves that had fallen in. I
suddenly became aware of the sound of chanting—as of a choir
of monks. One of the party exclaimed :
" There are the monks
singing."
There were no other persons in the ruins or grounds save
the members of our party.
There was no evidence of any church near by which could
have originated the sounds.
The singing only lasted about thirty seconds or a minute, and
as we spent a considerable time afterwards in the ruins and the
grounds, we should have heard any subsequent sounds had there
been any. ^ Edward Anne.
It is evident that the interpretation to be placed upon the
percipients' experience depends upon the question of whether
any chanting, such as was heard, is likely to have been
actually taking place at the time within a sufficiently short
distance to be audible. The time of day at which the ex-
perience occurred—3.30 p.m. on a Sunday—rather favours this
hypothesis, since it is a likely hour for the chanting of Vespers.
But we have still to consider by whom the Office might have
been chanted, and where. As regards the present Parish
Church of Jumieges, Miss Anne states, on the authority of the
caretaker at the ruins, that it was nearly a mile away, a
distance at which it is hardly possible to suppose that singing
would be audible, especially on a day when there was no wind
to carry the sound. It is said, however, in La Grande Encyclo-
pSdie (published in 1887) that the " capitular hall " and various
other accessory buildings at Jumieges are still almost intact,
Dec, 1915. Case. 123
and that " a community of Benedictine monks has recently
acquired all these buildings for the purpose of re-establishing
an abbey in them."
In reply to an enquiry as to whether it had been ascertained
that no monks were in residence at Jumieges in July, 1913,
Miss Anne writes :
,
Novemher 12, 1915.
The caretaker at Jumieges certainly said nothing about there
being a Benedictine Community living at Jumieges, and I think
she would have done, had this been the case, when We questioned
her. She said the whole place belongs to the people who own the
chateau which is built of stones from the ruin. . . .
I think myself there can be no Benedictine Community there,
as all the French Benedictine monks that I know of, were turned
out of France ten years ago, and also the English Benedictine
Communities, so I think if there had been a French one at
Jumieges, they would have gone too. . . .
As the evidence, therefore, stands at present, it appears
unlikely that any chanting such as the percipients heard,
should have been actually taking place at the time, but this
point cannot be considered clearly established, and the fact
that the sounds were heard by all the four members of the
party is, so far as it goes, a reason for supposing that these
sounds were not hallucinatory in character, but due to normal
physical causes. If any of our members have information as
to whether («) there were any monks resident at Jumieges
Abbey in Jvdy, 1913, or (6) there is in the immediate neigh-
bourhood of the Abbey any ecclesiastical building in which
chanting is likely to take place, we should be much obliged if
they would communicate with us.
CORRESPONDENCE.
We have received from Dr. F. C. S. Schiller the following
letter concerning the report on " A Thinking Dog " which
was printed in the preceding number of the Journal, October-
November, 1915 :
To the Editor of the Journal.
It is perhaps worth pointing out that, according to the interesting
account given in the Journal of last October, the performances
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Resectrch. Dkc, 1915.
of the New Zealand dog " Darkie " differ very materially from
those of the Mannheim dog " Rolf." In the latter case the
experiments made were designed to bring out the dog's capacity
to think independently, and there was no suggestion that the
animal had supernormal powers of cognition. Nor were questions
involving any supernormal powers of perception put to him.
But " Darkie " appears frequently to have been asked questions
which could not be answered by the normal powers of any
intelligence, and it is definitely suggested that he answered by
tapping telef)athically the knowledge of his master, who, " if
he concentrates his thoughts," enables the dog to answer any
question known to him (p. 103). Indeed even more than this
is involved in questions asking the dog to tell the time by a
particular watch (which was wrong), and the numbers on a bank-
note and a watch, which were presumably unknown to the
inquirer : this would require a sort of clairvoyance, though the
conditions of the experiments are not very clearly stated. Of
course, M. Maeterlinck's theory that dogs are " psychics " who
have access to a cosmic reservoir of all knowledge, would obtain
support from the experiments if the animal's knowledge were
found both to go beyond that possessed by any human mind,
and to be such that its own sense perception could not account
for it ; but until it is made clear that the conditions exclude
both this and telepathic transfer from a human mind, this ex-
planation can hardly be entertained. Indeed, as the record
stands, it can hardly be said that the most obvious interpretation
of all, that of unconscious signalling, is excluded, though no
doubt it is rendered more difficult by the fact that " Darkie,"'
like the Elberfeld horse " Berto," is blind.
F. C. S. Schiller.
Nos. CCCXXV.-VI.—Vol. XVII. January—February, 1916.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS
Notice of Meeting,
Some Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy,
Note on a Current Periodical,
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On WEDNESDA F, FEBRUARY 23, 1916, al 5 pw.
WHEN A PAPER ON
A Series of Experiments in " Guessing"
By MRS. A. W. VERRALL
will. HE READ.
N.B. Mefnhers and Associates will be admitted on signing iheir Names
at the door. Visitors ivill be admitted on the productioti of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member
or Associate is allowed to inzdte otiv. friend. -
,
;.
PAGE
125
126
147
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan.-Feb.
SOME RECENT CASES OF PREMONITION
AND TELEPATHY.!
By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Since a few of the experiences which form the subject of this
paper are without corroboration, it seems desirable to begin
with a word or two about the kidy to whom they occurred,
lest you should regard these uncorroborated incidents—or,
indeed, the main narrative—with any suspicion. Of course, as
our experience has taught us, it is only prudent, in the case
of any one not well known to us, to receive unsupported
statements on the subjects with which the Society is concerned
with a certain amount of reserve ; but in the present case you
will, I think, agree with me that the incidents which are
confirmed by the testimony of others lend full credibility to
those which are not so supported.
This lady, who" belongs to a family well known in North
Devon—her maiden name was Chichester—has been known to
me from her childhood and to my wife from her birth ;
indeed,
our families are connected by marriage. Of the truthfulness of
her statements we have no doubt, and I have myself carefully
cross-examined her on each of the incidents that are now to be
brought before you. I ought fui-t.her to state that those
accounts which are in my own language, and which form the
majority, were written down from information given in con-
versation several weeks before I received the confirmations of
other persons concerned. That is to say, my account of any
particular incident is really her own independent account, not
a story put together by me upon a comparison of the whole
evidence. She signed each account separately when I had
written it, and has since read and signed the whole paper as
correct. Similarly, her written accounts were given to me
before I received the corroborations. From childhood, as she
tells me, she has had experiences similar to those recorded
here, but until the occurrence of one tragic incident which I
shall have to relate, attached no particular impoi-tance to
them. The recent experiences were first brought to my own
notice a few months ago. I at once urged her to make
'This paper was read before the Society on November 22, 1915,
1916. Recent Oases of Premonition and Tetepathy. 127
contemporary notes of all such premonitory impressions, but
although she fortunately did so in two subsequent cases, in
three others the good intention was forgotten.
In 1910 Miss Chichester married Lieut. George Harley
Pownall, R.N., and they went to live at Harwich, where he
was in command of a submarine. She tells me that when they
were engaged she felt convinced—it seems to have been a
settled conviction and more than a mere fear—that he would
not live long ; but admits that she considered the submarine
service a dangerous one even in time of peace. We may see
reason to think that this opinion was perhaps not the sole
cause of the presentiment. Lieut. Pownall was of a robust
constitution and his health was excellent.
One day while they were at Harwich she saw, or thought
she saw, through a window that looked on the street, her
husband come up on his bicycle, get off, and approach the
house. She then heard the door open and shut, and the sound
of his footsteps in the hall. As he did not come into the room,
she went out but found no one. This was in the afternoon.
Lieut. Pownall, who had not been near the house at that time,
returned about an hour later. ^
In 1913 Lieut. -Commander Pownall (he had been jjiomoted in
1911) was appointed First Lieutenant of the Egmont, depot-
ship of the submarines at Malta, with command of the Sub-
marine Flotilla there. Mrs. Pownall went out with him.
In August 1914, after the outbreak of the war, Mr. R. E.
Knox, R.N.,2 who was on the staff of Admiral Carden, Admiral
Superintendent of the Dockyard, said in Mrs. Pownall's pre-
sence, " Anyhow we [meaning the Admiral and his staff] shall
not leave Malta, for the Admiral has jiist received an extension
of his appointment "
—or words to that effect.^ A few days
later, about August 12, on coming down to breakfast Mrs.
1 Some ten or eleven years ago, when away on a visit. Bliss Chichester
had a visual hallucination of her mother, who, being then at home, had
endeavoured (without any previous arrangement) to make herself visible to
her daughter. She had previously had a similar hallucination of her mother,
but without intention on the latter' s part.
^ Not the real name or initials.
* There was, I believe, no formal " extension " ; it would be more correct
to say that it became known that the Admiral was not to be relieved as
had been expected.
l28 Journat of Society for Psychical Research. Jan. -Feb.
Pownall said she had dreamed on the previous night that
Admiral Garden was going to have command of a fleet at sea,
but nowhere near England. This was said to her husband and
Mr. Knox, and later to Captain L. T. Esmond.^ Since it was
then common knowledge that the Admiral was not to be
relieved, her friends naturally dismissed the dream as absurd.
Some five weeks after this (I am betraying no secret, for the
fact was at once publicly known) Admiral Garden was appointed
Gonimander-in-Ghief of the Mediterranean Fleet, then at the
Dardanelles.
This is corroborated by Mr. Knox as follows :
October, 1915.
In August 1914 I was [on the staff of] Admiral Garden. I
remember that towards the end of the month^ I said to Mrs.
Pownall that the Admiral and his staff would be fixtures at Malta
during the war, as the appointment of the Admiral who was to
relieve him had been cancelled. I remember also that a few days
later Mrs. Pownall said she had dreamed that Admiral Garden was
in command of a Fleet at sea. Lieut.-Gommander Pownall,
Gaptain [Esmond], and I regarded it as extremely improbable that
he would leave Malta Dockyard.
(Signed) R. E. Knox
Captain Esmond writes from Malta on October 23, 1915 :
Mrs. Pownall told me in August 1914 that she had dreamed
that Admiral Garden was to have a command at sea, but nowhere
near England. This was generally regarded as improbable, in
view of the fact that the Admiral had only recently received an
extension of the appointment he then held at Malta.
Some time after the outbreak of the war, but before Sep-
tember 7 of last year, the question of the dispatch of sub-
marines from Malta to the Dardanelles was discussed among
Mrs. Pownall's friends. It is natural to surmise that the
discussion began after August 10, and that it arose from the
fact that the Goeben and Breslau had on that day succeeded
in reaching Constantinople. The naval officers were of opinion
1 Not the real name or initials.
- Since sending this statement Mr. Knox has written that he cannot
clearly recall what time in August the incident happened. Mrs. Pownall
fixes the date as being a few days after August 8, on which day she and
her husband moved into the house in which the dream occurred.
1916. Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 129
that the submarines would remain at Malta for the defence of
the island. Mrs. Pownall, however, constantly affirmed to her
husband and others that the submarine flotilla would be sent
to the Dardanelles and that he would go with them. She will,
I am sure, not quarrel mth me if I say that her grasp of
naval strategy is not such that this conviction, opposed as it
was to expert opinion, is hkely to have been based on reflec-
tion and judgment. The declaration of war against Turkey, it
will be remembered, was not made until November 5, 1914.
The premonition is corroborated by Mr. Knox as follows :
November 1, 1915.
I remember Mrs. George Pownall saying in August 1914 that the
Malta submarines would be sent to the Dardanelles. We all
considered this most improbable.
(Signed) R. E. Knox.
Captain Esmond writes under date October 23, 1915 :
Before the Submarine Flotilla left Malta for the Dardanelles it
was the general opinion in Naval circles that it would not be so
employed, being required for the defence of the island. I remem-
ber that Mrs. George Pownall nevertheless afl&rmed more than once
that the submarines would be sent to the Dardanelles. This took
place.
On September 7, 1914, Mrs. Pownall saw her husband pass
across the harbour in his skaff. She had frequently seen him
do so, but on this occasion she said to herself, " He is going
to the Admiral to receive orders for the dispatch of the
submarines to the Dardanelles." This was in fact the case,
and the flotilla left Malta next day. Lieut. -Commander Pownall
made the voyage in the Hindustani, a collier, which was
afterwards renamed the Hindiikush and became the submarine
depot-ship at the Dardanelles. He remained on this ship until
he was transferred to a transport on some day between the
17th and 2.5th of April, 1915.
When her husband parted from her, Mrs. Pownall felt
absolutely sure she would never see him again, ^ and from that
day onwards she always felt peculiarly depressed on Sundays,
and mentioned the fact in letters to her husband many times.
On Sunday, April 25, 1915, he was killed by a bursting shell
1 Her own words are :
" I had not a shadow of doubt about it."
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan.-Feb.
while in charge of a boat taking part in the first landing on
Gallipoli. He was wounded in the early morning and died at
10.30 a.m.
On that same afternoon at Malta Captain Esmond called on
Mrs. Pownall and delivered a letter written to her by her
husband, whose letters were sent that way by private arrange-
ment—probably for greater safety or more rapid delivery.
After giving her the letter Captain Esmond left Mrs. Pownall
in the drawing-room, saying he was very tired and would go
into the smoking-room and have a nap. She proceeded to read
the letter, which was dated the 17th of April, and when about
half through was seized with an overpowering conviction that
the landing had taken place and that her husband had been
killed. The conviction was so strong that she felt impelled to
go and tell Captain Esmond at once, but refrained from
distiirbing him. I have naturally not been able to ask to see
this letter, but Mrs. Pownall assures me that it contained
nothing about naval matters beyond the statement that her
husband was going on to a transport.
It should be explained that the officer in command of a
submarine flotilla does not live on a submarine, but on what
is called a depot-ship, which may be any ship that is suitable
for the purpose. Lieut. -Commander Pownall, as I have said,
had up to the time of writing been on the collier Hinduhish.
When Mrs. Pownall read that he was going on to a transport,
she wondered why this was, but her only conclusion was that
for some reason he was to be temporarily transferred from his
submarine duties. No doubt the removal to a transport anight
suggest duties in connexion with the troops, and as I have
recently learned, this was in fact the explanation, for the naval
officers who superintended the landing were all placed together
on an empty transport in order to make the necessary arrange-
ments. Mr. Knox, however, writes to me that a naval officer
would not necessarily infer from the change even a relinquish-
ment of the submarine duties ; "it might only mean that a
transport was being used as a Submarine Parent instead of the
collier which had hitherto been used.'' We shall see that the
transference did not suggest to Captain Esmond any partici-
pation in the landing. He had peculiar facilities for knowing
all that was to be known, and shortly before this had told
191G. Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 131
Mrs. Pownall that the landing would not take place for some
little time.
Together with the letter from her husband, Captain Esmond
had brought to Mrs. Pownall a letter from Mr. Knox, who also
was at the Dardanelles. She does not remember which she
opened first. Mr. Knox's letter has been destroyed, and he
has no recollection of its contents. Mrs. Pownall, however, is
sure that it contained no reference to the landing of the troops ;
and we may take it for certain that, even if anyone had known
the precise day of the landing more than a week before, Mr.
Knox would not have divulged so vital a secret, and also that
he would certainly not have said a word about Lieut. -Com-
mander Pownall's taking part in the operation, even if he had
then any expectation of his doing so. Before Mr. Knox left,
Mrs. Pownall had obtained from him a promise that he would
send to Captain Esmond a telegram with the news of her
husband's death whenever it should happen ; she says she did
this because she was sure he would be killed. This telegram,
as we shall see, Mr. Knox sent.
To continue the story. When after about an hour Captain
Esmond returned to the drawing-room, Mrs. Pownall told him
she was sure the troops had landed and that her husband had
been killed. He replied that he did not believe it for a
moment ;
firstly, because he did not think the landing would
take place for a day or two, and, secondly, because whenever it
took place, it was most unlikely that Lieut. -Commander
Pownall would have any part in it. Apparently nothing that
he could say produced any effect, and she replied that she was
sure she was right. So sure was she, that she asked him to
promise that he would himself bring her the news when it came,
and he said he would certainly do so if the need should arise.
I now give Captain Esmond's account of this interview,
written from Malta ; it confirms Mrs. Pownall's account with
extraordinary particularity.
On Sunday April 25th 1915, the day on which Lieut. Comdr
Pownall was killed, I took to Mrs. Pownall at her house a letter
written from her husband to her and sent under cover to me
.
After giving her the letter I went into the smoking-room and
slept for an hour. On my return to the drawing-room Mrs.
Pownall told me she was sure her husband had taken part in the
l')2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan. -Feb.
landing and been killed. I was not aware that the landing had
taken place, and did not expect the attempt to be made for 2 or
3 days. That Lieut. Comdr Pownall would land seemed to me
improbable, as he was O.C. Submarines. However, I had heard
that he had received some appointment other than that of O.C.
Submarines. In reply to Mrs. Pownall's statements I said that it
was of course possible, but that in view of the fact that 10
beachmasters had been appointed by the Admiralty, whom I had
seen passing through only 3 or 4 days previously, I did not
think for a moment that a valuable submarine officer would be
taken as a beachmaster. This was my honest belief.
Mrs. Pownall then asked me to bring her the official news of
her husband's death, and I said I would be sure to do so, if it
came. When the news actually arrived I was unavoidably pre-
vented from fulfilling this promise. As far as I am aware, the
only news Mrs. Pownall received of her husband's death was a
private telegram from Mr. [Knox . . .] to me. When I received
it [this was on the Wednesday after the death] H. E. the Gover-
nor was expected and I could not leave my office, and my tele-
gram was communicated to Mrs. Pownall by Mrs. Limpus, wife of
the Admiral Superintendent. On my arrival at 2.0 p.m. (2 hours
after receiving the telegram) Mrs. Pownall was quite calm, and
told me that as soon as she saw Mrs. Limpus she knew she had
come to tell her her husband was dead. She was expecting the
news hourly.
Captain Esmond appends the following note to his accounts
of the three incidents in which he was concerned :
October 23, 1915.
The facts I have related above are absolutely true and I am
prepared to swear to them, if necessary.
(Signed) L. T. Esmond, Captain, . .
.
Some account of Lieut.-Commander Pownall himself is desir-
able for a complete appreciation of this incident, and it will be
most convenient to give it at this point. He was an excep-
tionally talented and able naval officer, and so far as it can be
said of any one man in a service that contains so many men
of great ability, there can be no doubt that his death is a
serious loss to the Navy. Not only was he a master of his
particular business, but he also possessed considerable literary
and other gifts, and was a most agreeable and interesting
1916. Recent Gases of Premonition and Telepathy. 133
companion. His appointment at Malta is evidence of tlie
estimate which the Admiralty had formed of his abilities.
You have no doubt been wondering how an officer so
valuable for his proper and most important duties came to be
engaged in one of the landing parties. One asks with some
indignation and a bitter literalness, Que diahle aUait-il faire
dans cette gaUre ? No authoritative explanation is likely to be
obtainable, and we can only suppose that it was a case of
sheer necessity. Similar things have happened before, and will,
I imagine, happen again. It is small comfort for those who
mourn for him, though it says much for our Naval Service,
that, as is shown by our later submarine successes in Turkish
waters, his command has evidently passed into no less able hands.
I have said thus much of this officer—and I would also
remind you of Captain Esmond's opinion on the matter and of
Mr. Knox's remark on the removal to the transport—in order
that it may be clearly seen how little reason, humanly speak-
ing, Mrs. Pownall had for supposing her husband would be in
any special danger at the Dardanelles, and how she was least
of all justified by any ordinary calculation of probabilities in
her conviction that he had died as one of a landing party.
We have now to return to Malta. Mrs. Pownall spent the
earlier part of the evening of April 25 (the day of the
death and of her impression concerning it) alone in the house ;
she had allowed her maids to go out, and there are no
children. She was sometimes on the first floor and sometimes
on the second, but on whichever floor she might be, she heard
from time to time footsteps on the floor below ; the impression
was of human footsteps, but she did not otherwise distinguish
them. She went down three times to search, but found no
one. Becoming uneasy, she went out and induced a friend,
Mme. Davie, to come and spend the evening with her. She
did not mention the footsteps to her, nor her conviction of her
husband's death, but Mme. Davie also heard footsteps and also
searched twice for an explanation in vain. A letter has been
written to the lady, asking for her confirmation on this point,
but no answer has been received. Mrs. Pownall thinks she
must have left Malta.
In London on this same night a dream was dreamed which
only perversity, as it seems to me, could dissociate from Mrs.
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan. -Feb.
Pownall's distress at her husband's death, of which she had
become so strangely convinced. Before relating the dream I
should state that the " John " who appears in it is a brother
of Mrs. Pownall who died in Sumatra in September, 1914. In
view of the experiences accumulated in this paper, it is some-
what remarkable that Mrs. Pownall had no premonition of her
brother's death nor any telepathic impression of any kind in
connexion with it, although he was her favourite brother and
there was a strong mutual affection between them. The dream
occurred to a sister of Mrs. Pownall, Mrs. Grenfell White, and
the following is her account of it, with her husband's con-
firmation.
November 6, 1915.
On a Sunday night last April I dreamt that I saw Vera [Mrs.
George Pownall] crying dreadfully, and I saw John very plainly,
and he said to Vera, '
I wish I could speak to you, but I can't.'
When I woke up I said to my husband, '
I knoiv something has
hajDpened to George '
; and I then went on to urge him very
strongly to remember what I was going to tell him, and in
particular to remember that I had told him before we had any
knowledge that my forebodings were true. I then told him my
dream, and my insistence made him remember the circumstances
clearly. We afterwards learned that George was in fact killed on
that Sunday. I had not previously dreamt about John since his
death in September 1911.
(Signed; Thomasine Grenfell White.
155 Sloane St., London.
November 6, 1915.
The above is a true account of what occurred.
(Signed) W. Grenfell White.
On the following day, Monday, April 26, although Mrs.
Pownall's impression of her husband's death was less painfully
vivid, the conviction was as strong as ever, and she proceeded
to tear up papers and letters and do other things which she
would not otherwise have done, in view of an early return to
England. She actually told her maid that she would have no
further need of her services.
On the next night, Tuesday, somewhere about midnight she
suddenly woke up in bed, and after a few minutes heard
footsteps in the street below. Her first thought was that it
1910. Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 135
was Captain Esmond bringing her the news as he had promised,
and she felt relieved when the steps went past the house.
This feeling, however, was followed by the thought, " He will
not come ; Mrs. Limpus [^vife of Admiral Limpus] will bring
me the news."
On the Wednesday morning Mrs. Pownall went out into the
town, and on her return at 1 o'clock found Mrs. Limpus
waiting for her with a telegram confirming all this sad fore-
knowledge. The telegram ran as follows :
" Pownall killed
25th beach party. [Knox.] " Soon after this she received a
note from Captain Esmond saying he was very sorry that he
had been unavoidably prevented from fulfilling his promise to
bring the news himself. As you will remember from his
statement, he also called at 2 o'clock.
Mrs. Pownall left for England on Monday, May 3, 1915, and
there was a curious premonition in connexion with her de-
parture. The boats, which go weekly, normally come into
Malta and leave again after a stay of a few hours. Mrs.
Pownall had expected to leave on Tuesday, May 4, but Captain
Esmond had told her that the boat had been delayed and
would not come till the Thursday. On waking on Monday
morning at about 7.30 she felt convinced that the boat would
leave at 11 o'clock that day, and at once got up and made
preparations to start. She usually got up between 9 and 10,
after breakfasting in bed. At 9.30 she received a note from
Captain Esmond telling her that the boat would leave at 11
that day, and she started by it at that hour. In peace time
the boat was accustomed to leave in the afternoon, but after
the outbreak of the war, according to Mrs. Pownall's recol-
lection, the hour varied. I do not know at what hour the
boat came in on the morning in question, but I can think of
no normal means by which Mrs. Pownall, lying in bed in her
house, could become aware of its arrival, or indeed of the
arrival of any ship. Captain Esmond writes to me that he
cannot remember anything in connexion with this incident
beyond the broad fact that " the boat arrived two or three
days before she was expected and upset all the arrangements."
This, however, is fortunately all the corroboration we require.
On reaching England, Mrs. Pownall went to her parents in
Devonshire, and stayed wdth them for about ten days. At
I
136 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan. -Feb.
this time she had not been informed whether her husband had
been womided in the head or in the body, nor whether he had
or had not died instantaneously ; but she told her mother,
while on this visit, that she was sure he had been shot in the
back and had not died at once. Her mother has only a vague
recollection of this, but Mrs. Pownall is positive on all three
points. Some time in June she received a letter, dated May
31, from the Chaplain on board the transport, informing her
that Lieut. -Commander Pownall had been wounded in the back
and had lingered a few hours. She had not written to any one
for information on the point, and this was the first that had
reached her. Before receiving this letter, Mrs. Pownall had
received two others from the Dardanelles, one from an officer
and one from an able seaman, but neither made any reference
to the locality of the wound.
The next three experiences I give in Mrs. Pownall's own
words. She made no contemporary notes, but says that her
recollection is clear.
October, 191.5.
In July 1915 I was staying at Eastbourne with Miss Bayfield,
who was driving a motor ambulance in the neighbourhood. Mr.
[R. B. Knox] was also there on leave, expecting a fresh appoint-
ment. One day I told him he would get his appointment on such
and such a day, naming a day of the week four days ahead. I
remember counting the days as they went by. He obtained his
appointment on the day I named.
^
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
Mr. Knox has sent the following confirmation of this, and
fortunately has been able to supply the dates :
In July 1915 I was on leave at Eastbourne and was expecting
an appointment. On Friday 30th July Mrs. Pownall told me I
should be appointed on the following Tuesday, which proved true.
(Signed) R. E. Knox.
I now come to another little incident, which may readily be
accepted, though from the nature of the case corroboration is
impossible.
October, 1915.
One morning in October 1915 my copy of the Times had been
brought up to me as usual while I was in bed, and was lying
near me where the maid had placed it, folded as it always is^
1916. Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 137
with the front page outside. I had not myself touched it. Just
as I was about to take it up I had the impression that I should
find among the casualties the name of Major Ash, of the Middle-
sex Regiment, as either killed or wounded. On opening the paper
and looking down the casualty lists I found his name among the
wounded. I did not know Major Ash well, having only met him
at Malta two or three times, and I had no particular interest in
him, though I knew Mrs. Ash fairly well while we were both at
Malta. I had had a letter from her some three months before
this. I had not been thinking of Major or Mrs. Ash, and I did
not know whether he was on the Western Front or at the Darda-
nelles, or indeed where he was. (Signed) Vera Pownall.
The next incident also occurred last month. I should state
that my daughter has for the last two months been tem-
porarily living with Mrs. Pownall in London. I give the story
as written down at their dictation, beginning with Mrs.
Pownall's account :
At about 7.15 p.m. on October 12, 1915, at my flat in London,
I made the following note on the back of a tradesman's bill :
—
'
I feel that there will be a Zep. raid to-night or to-morrow at
9.45 p.m. V. Pownall. Oct. 12.' For the rest of that day the
matter was entirely absent from my mind. On October 13 Miss
Bayfield and Mr. [J. Knox, Mr. R. E. Knox's] brother, dined with
me at the flat at 7.15. During dinner I found it strangely
difficult to collect and control my thoughts, and seemed to myself
to be in a state of suppressed excitement and expectancy, but I
was expecting nothing in particular. I did not think of Zeppelins,
and I had entirely forgotten the memorandum written on the
previous evening. No thought of Zeppelins occurred to me until
we were standing outside in the street at about 5 minutes past 8,
when Miss Bayfield said, '
What a lovely night for Zeppelins !
'
The night was clear and still. Even then I did not think of my
note. When we heard the first bomb dropped on London that
evening we were in a theatre ; I at once remembered my memo-
randum and looked at my watch, which gave the time as 9.40.
My watch loses about 5 minutes each day, and I regulate it every
morning at about 9.30 by the clock on the Great Central Hotel,
which I can see from my windows. I do not remember that 1
was ever before in the condition described.
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan. -Feb.
My daughter, who has known Mrs. Pownall intimately for
some years, and spent the winter of 1913 with her at Malta,
describes what happened as follows :
I have read the foregoing statement, and testify that it is
correct so far as concerns myself. During dinner I noticed that
Vera seemed extraordinarily distraite and preoccupied. More than
once she did not reply when we spoke to her, and she seemed to
pay imperfect attention to what was going on. Also she talked
httle. All this was quite unusual with her, especially at dinner
and when entertaining guests. 1 said to her something to the
following effect, '
What is the matter with you ? I never knew
you so vague !
'
She replied, '
I feel something is going to happen.
[ When I said this I did not think of Zeppelins.' Vera Pownall.]
I said, '
What ?
'
She answered that she did not know. I then
said, '
To whom 1
'
and she said, '
To all of us.' I said, '
When ?
'
and she replied '
Oh, soon '
[meaning, as Mrs. Pownall has ex-
plained, within a day or so]. Then she apologised for being '
so
vague,' and we all laughed about it.
After dinner we were going to a theatre. When Mrs. Pownall
and I were putting on our things I said to her, '
Is it going to
happen to you or me ? ', and she replied, '
Oh no ; we are all in
it.' Either now or earlier I said to her, '
Is it something awful ?
and she answered, '
No.'
While we were at the theatre we heard the bombs, and at the
sound of the first or second Vera said to me, '
I wrote that down
yesterday and put it in my dressing-table drawer.' When we got
home she at once went to her bedroom and immediately brought
back and showed me the paper attached to this statement.
(Signed) Cyrille BAvriELD.
Mrs. Pownall adds :
I have read Miss Bayfield's statement and declare that it is correct.
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
The original of the memorandum mentioned has been identi-
fied by Miss Bayfield, and is in the Society's possession,
together with the originals of the statements of Captain
Esmond, Mr. Knox, and Commander Reinold, furnished in
corroboration of other incidents. I may add that the news-
papers of October 12, 1915, so far as I am aware, contained
no warning of a Zeppelin raid, and the last previous raid
—
1916. Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 139
the only one that had then been made on London—took place
more than a month before, on September 8.
The last case which I have to bring before you occurred ten
days ago. The follomng is Mrs. PownalFs account of it :
November IWi, 1915.
Yesterday morning, when I began to read the paper, I had it
fixed in my mind that I should see " British Submarine Lost "',
and I hunted through the paper expecting to see something
about it, but found nothing. A Commander from the Admiralty
came to luncheon, and at lunch I said to Cyrille and him, " Did
I dream it or did I see in yesterday's or to-day's paper that a
British submarine had been lost ? Was it in any paper ?
" The
Commander said, " No," and also Cyrille. This morning, shortly
after 12 o'clock, I saw a poster, " British Submarine Lost.
Official." We bought a Pall Mall and found it was true.
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
Miss Bayfield writes :
November 13th, 1915.
I have read Mrs. George Pownall's statement about the British
submarine, the loss of which was first reported in to-day's evening
papers, and certify that it is a true statement in every detail.
.
(Signed) Cyrillp: Bayfield.
Commander B. E. Eeinold, R.N., writes :
November lltJi, 1915.
On Friday last, November 12, I lunched with Mrs. George
Pownall and Miss Bayfield at 2m Hyde Park Mansions, and I
remember that at lunch Mrs. Pownall said something to the
fofiowing effect : — Did I dream it or did I see it in yesterday's
or to-day's paper that a British submarine had been lost ?
" I
also remember that Miss Bayfield and I replied that there had
been no such announcement in the papers.
(Signed) B. E. Reinold, Comr.R.N.
This brings me to the end of my story, but if you are not
already wearied, I should like to add a few remarks on some
of the incidents—offering, perhaps, by the way, a few targets
for the discussion which I hope follow.
A resolute critic, unconvinced even of telepathy, might
dismiss this somewhat remarkable series of predictions as
merely so many examples of chance coincidence, accounting
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan.-Feb.
perhaps for their number by a reference to the extraordinary
ruiis on the red or the black at Monte Carlo, and to other
similar phenomena. I must confess that such a view would
seem to me to be a fresh illustration of the surprising credulity
of the incredulous, who, rather than accept a new truth which
conflicts with their prepossessions, are ready to believe the
incredible. The simplicity which would believe that we have
here to do with nothing but chance, would appear to be
capable of believing anything. This explanation, then, I
unhesitatingly dismiss, and seek further afield.
Several of the incidents are obviously explicable by telepathy
between the living, and may be considered to strengthen the
evidence for it—perhaps to extend our conception of it. Three
others—Admiral Garden's appointment, the dispatch of the
submarines, and the Zeppelin raid—may be so explained, if we
make certain assumptions ; but of the premonition of the
visit of Mrs. Limpus and some points of detail in other cases
telepathy seems to me to offer no explanation at all.
To take first the hallucination at Harwich, we may suppose
that Lieut. -Commander Pownall, being compelled to leave his
newly married wife alone for most of the day, was always
desirous of returning home as soon as his duties permitted.
He might often, consciously or unconsciously, while in the
midst of his work picture himself so returning. On this
particular afternoon a thought of the kind—perhaps a " high-
explosive " one, so to speak, caused by an apparent chance of
an early return afterwards found to be no chance—may have
caught Mrs. Pownall at a favourable moment, and the visual
hallucination was the result. One only wonders why hallu-
cinations of this kind do not occur more often.
Telepathy will explain the dream about Admiral Garden's
appointment, if we make a wild and quite gratuitous assump-
tion. The dream, you remember, occurred about August 12,
1914. Now, the Goehen and Bieslau reached Constantinople
on August 10, and their escape caused much irritation in this
country. At the Admiralty and in Government circles the
irritation was no doubt acute. It is conceivable—I do not
venture to say that it is more than conceivable—that someone
then in high ofiice, whose name I forbear even to guess, under
the stimulus of this irritating disappointment, flashed out a
191C. Recent Gases of Premonition and Telepathy.
very highly explosive thought the impact of which was felt as
•
far as Malta—the thought being something like this, " X.
must be recalled, and Garden must have the Mediterranean
command !
" Whether the thought was justifiable or not of
course I do not discuss, and it does not matter ;
iior does it
matter that the change (which, as we know, was actually made)
did not take place till more than five weeks after the date of
the dream. This audacious suggestion is, of course, a mere
fancy, but it is the best I can myself make in the interests of
telepathy. On its merits I attach small value to it, and I
have reasons for believing it to be improbable. I am not at
liberty to impart these reasons, but those of you who have
friends in naval circles will perhaps be able to obtain infor-
mation from which you can foim your own opinion on the
matter.
Similarly, the dispatch of the submarines could be explained
by telepathy from the Admiralty, if the step was decided upon
there at a sufficiently early date. Perhaps we may some day
be allowed to learn how this was ; but in view of the fact
that the flotilla was ordered to leave at some twenty-four
hours' notice, it does not seem likely that the matter was
discussed and decided in London more than a day or two
before. Otherwise one would have expected longer notice to
be given.
The incidents of the steamer, the womiding of Major Ash,
and the loss of the British submarine obviously suggest a
telepathic explanation, since in each case some one knew the
facts before they reached Mrs. Pownall. With regard to Mr.
Knox's appointment also, it is possible that somebody at the
Admiralty thought the thought, " in 3 days' time we shall
send Mr. Knox notice of his appointment." All the same,
both the thought itself and the transference of just that
thought on a trivial matter are nob easy to explain. As to
Mrs. Grenfell White's dream, which is veJdical on the only
point that we can test—Mrs. Pownall's distress, telepathy,
while it accounts for the knowledge of her grief, does not
account for the presence of the brother. Nor does it account
for the mysterious footsteps heard in the house at Malta the
same evening, which in view of the dream, it does not seem
merely fanciful to connect with him—unless we are to connect
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan-.-Feb.
them Avith the husband. I do not mean that a spirit's foot-
steps may be audible ; but I can imagine that if my sub-
liminal consciousness receives the impression of a spirit's
l^resence or influence (I do not know what word to use), the
impression might emerge in the vague form of an hallucination
of the sound of footsteps.^
With regard to the Zeppelin raid, we may say, if we like,
that Mrs. Pownall obtained her information fi'om the Germans
in Belgium who were planning it. Ab first blush that may
seem easy ; but we must remember that the only rap-port
between them is a violent mutual repulsion, and the pro-
duction of rap-port by repulsion seems unlikely. Moreover, as
these Germans presumably thought in German and Mrs.
PownalFs knowledge of that language is extremely slight and
(as I have proved by experiment) Cjuite insufficient to under-
stand such a message as might be presumed,^ one must ask
how it came to be so conveniently translated in transit. Or
can such a thought (all the concepts which it embraces being
familiar to the receiver) be transmitted from mind to mind,
without the employment of language ? I am disposed to think
that this may be so, although, so far as I am aware, we have
no recorded example of telepathy between people who do not
understand each other's language. Even so, however, not all
our difficulties are removed. How are we to explain Mrs.
Pownall's precise knowledge of the hour of the raid ? On the
telepathic hypothesis, the enemy proposed to himself to drop
his first bomb on London at 9.45 ; but if he did, we know
enough of aerial navigation to be able to say that he was
^ It was suggested by a speaker at the meeting that the hearing of foot-
steps may have been the result of expectation, but the suggestion seems
altogether gratuitous. Why should there be any such expectation ? Mrs.
Pownall had never before had this hallucination, though she had frequently
been alone in the house in the evening, and convinced as she was of her
husband's death, one would suppose that the last thing she would expect
would be to hear his footsteps ;
moreover, she did not distinguish them
as a man's footsteps. It may be added that Lieut. -Commander Pownall had
never lived in this house ; Mrs. Pownall moved into it after he left Malta.
Mme Davie had not been told about the footsteps before sho thought she
heard them herself, so that in her case it is equally difficult to imagine why
she should expect to hear them.
- In the following sentence, " Ein Viertel vor zehn, werden wir uber
London ankommen,"' the only word translated was iiber.
1916. Recent Gases of Premonition and Telejmthy. 14-3
highly unlikely to keep to his time-table with such astonishing
precision. In this case, therefore, telepathy cannot, I think,
be lightly allowed to have the last word. ^
The knowledge of her husband's death may well have been
apprehended by Mrs. Pownall telepathically ; the impression
may have been subliminally received at the moment of death,
to emerge in some mysterious way through the handling of
the letter. There is, however, one point in this painful episode
which telepathy does not wholly explain.
]\'Irs. Po^\Tiall appears to have known for many months that
her husband would be killed at the Dardanelles, and also, as
I incline to think, that it would be on a Sunday. At any
rate, she was possessed by an unshakable conviction on the
former point, and the conviction was justified by the event.
She did not, I believe, consciously expect bhat he would die on
a Simday, but her remarkable depressions on Sundays look
like the formless emergence of a subliminal impression to that
effect.^ The depressions were peculiarly distressing and usually
culminated in weeping. They began when she woke in the
1 An article in the Observer of October 3 contained the following para-
graph :
"Sunset coming earher, the hours of the possible arrival of German
airships over London is put forward, and this month we may expect them
as early as 10 p.m. In November, December, and January, they might in
certain conditions get here before 9.30 p.m. ;
and, other things being equal,
they will be a trifle less particular about the amount and direction of the
wind during the winter, for they will have a greater duration of dark hours
for the job." Jlrs. Pownall takes the Observer and it must therefore be
presumed that she read this article ; but even so we are not much helped.
The impression was not received until 10 days later, and " as early as
10 p.m." does not suggest 9.45.
- Dr. Wingfield once told me of a patient, a young lady, who for a long
time had refused to go out of the house for fear that something dreadful
would happen to her, she knew not what. Suspecting this vague fear to be
the emergence of something more definite in the subliminal, he hypnotised
her and told her to dream of the thing she was afraid of. On waking her,
he bade her make notes of her dreams and bring the notes to him. She
brought notes of some half-dozen, of which he selected one. The dream was
of an incident in a story she had read when a child : a girl, whose friends
wished to get hold of her money, had been taken out and driven off to a
lunatic asylum. Put into the trance again, the patient now confessed that
the fear that this might happen to herself was the cause of her unwillingness
to go out of doors. With this knowledge the cure was simple and was
immediately effected.
144 Jownud of Society for Psychical Research. Jan.-Feb.
morning, pa.ssed off towards midday, and returned about
tea-time. Nothing at all like them occurred on other days,
and during the week, but for the one great trouble, Mrs.
Pownall preserved her normal cheerfulness. Of course, there
are countless instances of people saying that they are " con-
vinced " they will never again see someone dear to them, but
they do not mean more than that they greatly fear it will be
so. Mrs. PownalFs other veridical predictions seem to forbid
us to regard the present case as one of mere foreboding, and
she herself absolutely refuses to regard it as such. Every
prediction of the future must be considered on its merits and
in its own setting, and having regard to all the circumstances,
I cannot persuade myself that we have not here a case of
actual foreknowledge. With every desire to show common
sense, I am unable to accept accidental coincidence as a
satisfactory explanation of the facts. But if it is a case of
foreknowledge, how are we to account for it ? I can imagine
three possible views, and someone may suggest a fourth or
more.
Firstly, we may suppose the information to have been
conveyed by a spirit who had knowledge of the future.
Secondly, we may suppose that the mind can of itself, and on
its own initiative, travel into a world of thought where there
is no past or future—where all that is, all that has been, all
that is to be, is equally known and knowable. Thirdly, there
is a supposition which those who find it difficult to believe that
we on earth ever come into contact with a spirit world, would
perhaps prefer to either of these two. We may suppose that a
man in perfect health may by some mysterious means come to
have, consciously or subliminally, a foreknowledge of the very
day of his death many months before it takes place—and that,
although his death is to be a violent one, and not due to some
disease whose rudimentary existence the subliminal may be
supposed to be capable of noting, while it is also able to
forecast and to time with accuracy its fatal development. We
may suppose that Lieut. -Commander Pownall had this fore-
knowledge and was unable to prevent the communication of it
telepathically to his wife. This idea is not to be hastily
rejected ; but it must be admitted that it transcends normal
experience quite as outrageously as does the idea of communi-
1916. Recent Cases of Premonition and Tele/pathy.
cation with a spirit world, or that of our abihty to penetrate
into a world of thought such as I have suggested ;
moreover,
it lacks at present any substantial support. It is, however,
the explanation offered by Professor Flournoy of a case of
foreknowledge of death from disease described in his book
Esprits et Mklimns. That case, which is very well attested, is
so remarkable that I gave a summary of it in a review of the
book in Vol. XXV. of the Proceedings. Since it may be
thought to lend some support to this last theory, I will give
a bare outline of the story here. For convenience, I accord the
dates to the Kussian calendar, which is twelve days behind ours.
A certain Mme Buscarlet of Geneva, after acting for three
years as governess to the two little daughters of M. and Mme
Moratief at Kasan in Russia, returned to Geneva in August,
1883. At Kasan she became acquainted with a Mme Nitchinof
and a Mile Olga Popoi. Mme Nitchinof was headmistress of
the Institut ImpSrial at Kasan, a school which Mme Moratief's
daughters began to attend after Mme Buscarlet's departure, and
she and her husband were intimate friends of the Morafciefs.
On December 10 (our 22nd) Mme Buscarlet wrote a letter to
Mme Moratief, but did not post it till the 12th, and it reached
Kasan on the 20th. Professor Flournoy saw both the letter
and the envelope with the Geneva and Kasan postmarks.
After about a page of Christmas greetings, the letter goes on
as follows. It is written in French, but I translate, omitting
all that is not essential.
Last night I had an absurd dream. . . . You and I were on a
country road, when there passed in front of us a carriage from
which came a voice calling you. When we got to the carriage
we saw Mile Olga Popoi lying stretched across it inside, dressed in
white and wearing a cap trimmed with yellow ribbons. [Mme
Buscarlet told Professor Flournoy that the cap also was white,
and that she had seen the body of a lady invested for burial in
this manner in Russia.] She said to you, '
1 have called you in
order to tell you that Mme Nitchinof leaves the Institute on the
17th.' The carriage then drove on. How ludicrous dreams are
sometimes.
After this the letter turns to other subjects.
In a letter written in reply and dated Kasan, December 20
(the day on which Mme Buscarlet's letter arrived), M. Moratief
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, Jan. -Feb.
wrote to Mme Buscarlet that he and his wife had dined at
Mme Nitchinof's house on the 13th, which was four days
after the dream. After dinner Mme Nitchinof felt unwell, but
a doctor who arrived immediately diagnosed nothing more than
an ordinary slight sore-throat {une simple et Ugere angine). On
the 14th and 15th the doctors, three in number, failed to find
anything alarming, and only on the morning of the 16th was
the illness recognised as scarlet fever. At 5 p.m. on that day
the patient could hardly speak, and at 11.45 the same night
she died. For fear of infection, the body was removed from
the school to a neighbouring chapel at 2 a.m. on the 17th.
Thus Mme Nitchinof did indeed " leave the Institute " on the
17th. Mile Olga Popoi's intrusion into the dream is unex-
plained.
There remains one final puzzle. If Mrs. Pownall had ex-
pected that ofiicial news of her husband's death would be sent
to Admiral Limpus, she might naturally suppose that it would
be brought on to her by Mrs. Limpus. Questioned on this
point Mrs. Pownall wrote :
" I could not possibly have expected
Admiral or Mrs. Limpus to bring me the news. Ofiicial news
of the death of a Naval ofiicer always comes straight from the
Admiralty to the wife or nearest relative. About a fortnight
after George was killed I had a letter from the Admiralty
telling me of his death. I arranged with Mr. [Knox] that,
should anything happen to George, he was to send a telegram
to Captain [Esmond]." Now, Mr. Knox's private telegram to
Captain Esmond arrived in Malta at noon on the Wednesday,
and until a few minutes after that no one on earth could
know by any normal means, nor even by telepathy, that the
news would be brought to Mrs. Pownall by Mrs. Limpus.
Her intervention was the outcome of an accident which did not
happen till noon on that day. How, then, could Mrs. Pownall
know of it twelve hours before ?
The following considerations, which I present because they
occurred to me and might be thought to touch the point,
really afl:ord no solution of the mystery. In asking Captain
Esmond to " bring her the ofiicial news " Mrs. Pownall seems
to have had some dim notion that it might be officially
telegraphed to Malta direct from the Dardanelles, though on a
moment's reflection she would have remembered that head-
1916. Recent Gases of Premonition and Telepathy. 147
quarters authorities communicate casualties only to the Admir-
alty or the War Office. She was well aware of this. Such a
telegram, if sent—though passing, as did all official telegrams,
through Captain Esmond's hands—would have been addressed,
she thinks, to Admiral Limpus. She tells me she never thought
of this until I questioned her on the point ; her only thought
was that Captain Esmond was always the first recipient of
official news, and she had forgotten for the moment her
arrangement with Mr. Knox. Moreover, even if it had occurred
to her that an official telegram from the Dardanelles would be
addressed to the Admiral, she would not have thought of Mrs.
Limpus as a possible messenger ; she would have felt sure that
Captain Esmond, when forwarding the telegram to the Admiral,
would at the same time inform him that he had promised to
break the news to her himself, if it should come.
NOTE.
November 22, 1915.
I have read Mr. Bayfield's paper, and declare that it faith-
fully describes my experiences and the facts connected with
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
NOTE ON A CURRENT PERIODICAL.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research
for November, 1915, contains a report by Dr. Hyslop on some
sittings with Mrs. Chenoweth, at which interesting results were
obtained. The sittings were held under the following circumstances.
A lady of whom Dr. Hyslop knew nothing wrote to him from
Germany asking if he could recommend a " psychic " to her,
as she had recently lost her husband and wished, if possible,
to get into communication with liim. Dr. Hyslop knew of
no psychic in Grermany, and the lady, Mrs. Tansch, was unable
to come to America, but she sent an article which had belonged
to her husband, and her sister, then living in Boston, had some
sittings with Mrs. Chenoweth on her belialf. Mrs. Tausch's
husband had been professor in a small Western University in
America, and had returned to his old home in Germany shortly
before his death.
Dr._ Hyslop made all the arrangements for the sittings himself,
and imposed, he says, the usual conditions, that is to say, he
did not tell the sitter, Mrs. Tausch's sister, the 'name of the
medium to whom he was proposing to take her, and Mrs.
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan.-Fkb. 1916.
Chenoweth, who had been given no information in regard to
the sitter, was entranced before the latter entered the room.
At the beginning of the first sitting a sign was made which
in Mrs. Chenoweth's automatic writing habitually represents
Professor William James, and in reply to an enquiry it was
so interpreted here. Subsequently Jennie P., one of Mrs.
Chenoweth's habitual " controls," enquired whether the spirit
who wished to communicate was associated with any one called
William. Dr. Hyslop asked her whether she meant William
James, and she said she did not know. Later on again, when
Professor Tausch himself was purporting to communicate, the
following dialogue took place
:
I wish to prove to them all that I was not a fool to be interested in this
belief of spirit ... I also had some records I had been much interested in.
(Yes, do you mean they were your own ?).
No.
(Whose ?).
Others. My personal experience was limited.
'
(Yes, do you know whose records they were ?).
Yes, J. had some.
(Let me be sure what the J. is for.)
My friend James.
Commenting on this, Dr. Hyslop says ^
Now Professor James was a friend of the communicator, and Mrs. Tausch
wrote in response to my enquiries that Professor James had given them
records to read and they had done so. Of course I knew nothing of this
fact, and indeed nothing of the man and his life.
Previously to her question about the " man named William,"
Jennie P., on being asked what the communicator's work had
been, said that it was " philosophical " and " he philosophized
about everything." He had in fact been a professor of philosophy.
Several other small incidents and peculiarities were correctly
described, and in " the subliminal stage of the recovery " the
letters T h T were given. They were interpreted by the
" subliminal " as Theodore, the name of a previous communicator.
Dr. Hyslop made no comment on this beyond saying that the
name Theodore had no relevance. At the second sitting " without
any help " the name Tausch was given, variously, but never quite
correctly spelt. It should be noted that Tausch was not the
sitter's name, and assuming, as Dr. Hyslop implies,, that care
was taken not to mention the name in the medium's presence,
this is a good piece of evidence for knowledge supernormally acquired.
In conclusion, Dr. Hyslop points out that the interest of the
case lies especially in the fact that the communicator made several
correct and distinctive statements about himself for the verification
of which it was necessary to apply to Mrs. Tausch in Germany, as
the facts were unknown either to Dr. Hyslop or to the sitter.
It would be interesting to see the complete record of these
two sittings, and perhaps Dr. Hyslop will give us this opportunity
later. H. de G. S.
No. CCCXXVII.—Vol. XVII. March, 1916
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, . . 149
Annual General Meeting of Members, - - - 150
Meetings of the Council, . - - - - - 150
General Meeting, 152
Report of the Council for the year 1915, 152
Account of Receipts and Expenditure for 1915, 158
Endowment Fund for Psychical Research, Account for 1015, 159
A Note on " Some Recent Experiments in Telepathy," 160
Note on a Current Periodical, 162
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Aspinall, Mrs. John, New Hall, Harlow, Essex.
Baddeley, Colonel C. E., c/o Miss Baddeley, Cathedral House,
G-loucester.
Benton, W. E., 18 Emanuel AA^enue, Acton, London, W.
Peters, William E., Sylvadene, Cumberland Road. Bromley, Kent.
Wilson, W. E., 45 Maiden Road, Kentish Town, London, N.W.
Barrett, Lady, M.D., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W.
Butler, Frederick W., 1627 Silver Street, Jacksonville, Florida,
U.S.A.
Charles, Clifford P., M.K.C.S., L.E.C.P., Bancroft, Hitchin.
Cornish, J. Easton, The Water Works, Alexandria, Egypt.
Duff, The Lady Juliet, 16 Upper Brook Street, London, W.
Faulder, Mrs., 37 Rutland Court, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Grew, J. C, c/o American Embassy, 4 Grosvenor Gardens, London, S.W.
Harriman, T. G., M.D., 2291 East Ocean Avenue, Long Beach,
Calif., U.S.A.
Hartley, Alfred, 3 Macaulay Road, Clapham Common, London, S.W.
Home, Miss Georgina, 17 Kildare Gardens, London, W.
LOCHORE, The Rev. George, The Manse^ AVaihi, New Zealand.
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. March, I9l(>.
Matbar, H. p., Petit Mansion, Sleater Road, Bombay, India.
Secretary, Selskabet fen- Psykisk Forskning, Copenhagen.
Simmons, Judge Daniel A., Jacksonville, Florida, U.S.A.
Stevenson, A. Creery, 83 Camperdown Road, Scotstonn, Glasgow, W.
Thornley, Miss Florence J., 36 Downleaze, Stoke Bishop, Bristol.
Wall, Perry G., Tampa, Florida, U.S.A.
Weston, Miss Lena E., Shipbourne Grange, Nr. Tonbridge, Kent.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Thursday, January
27th, 1916, at 5 p.m. ; Mr. H. Arthur Smith in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir W. F.
Barrett, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, Mr.
Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick (and, by proxy : The
Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield,
Captain E. N. Bennett, Sir William Crookes, Sir Oliver Lodge,
Dr. T. W. Mitchell, and Dr. F. C. S. Schiller) ; also Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Report of the Council for the year 1915 was read, and
is printed below. The audited account of income and expendi-
ture for the year 1915 was presented and taken as read, and
is also printed below.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members of
the Council offered themselves for re-election. No other nomi-
nations having been received, the following were declared to be
duly elected Members of the Council : Mr. W. W. Baggally,
Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, Lord Rayleigh, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 137th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, January 27th, 1916, at
4.30 p.m. ; Mr. H. Arthur Smith in the chair. There were
also present : Sir W. F. Barrett, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr.
St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Miss
Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Report of tke Council was considered for the year 1915.
March, 191G. Meetings of the Council. 151
The ISSth. Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, January 27th, 1916, im-
mediately after the Annual General Meeting ; Mr. H. Arthur
Smith in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W.
Baggally, the Eight Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, Sir W. F. Barrett,
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The proceedings of the Annual General Meeting were reported.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., was re-elected President of
the Society for the year 1916.
Mr. H. Arthixr Smith was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick and the Hon. Everard Feilding, Hon. Secre-
taries ; and Mr. Arthur Miall, Auditor, for the current year.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1916 : the Eev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. G. Lowes
Dickinson, Professor L. P. Jacks, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr.
T. W. Mitchell, Mr. A. F. Shand. Dr. V. J. Woolley, and Dr.
M. B. Wright.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Pnhlication : The Eight Hon.
Gerald W. Balfom-, Miss Jane Barlow, Sir William F. Barrett,
Sir William Crookes, the Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. W. Leaf,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Lord Eayleigh, Mrs. H. Sidgwick, and Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
Library Committee : The Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
House and Finance Committee : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, and Mr. H. Arthur Smith.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected
for the year 1916, the names of Miss H. A. Dallas and Mr.
J. Arthur Hill being added to the list of Honorary Associates.
Three new Members and thirteen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The 139th Meeting of the Comacil was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Wednesday, February 23rd, 1916, at
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. March, 1916.
4 p.m. ; Mr. H. Arthur Smith in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir W. F. Barrett, Rev.
M. A. Bayfield, Captain E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence J. Jones,
Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick ; also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Two new Members and five new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 146th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Council Chamber, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on
Wednesday, February 23rd, 1916, at 5 p.m. ; Sir Lawrence J.
Jones in the chair.
Mrs. W. H. Salter read a paper by Mrs. A. W. Verrall
on A Series of Experiments in " Guessing,"' which will be
pubhshed later in the Proceedings.
REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1915.
During the past year, as might be expected, the Society
has again felt the effect of the war, and we have to report
a further decrease in membership.
In the course of the year 7 new Members were elected,
and 2 Associates became Members ; 34 new Associates were
elected, and 8 Members became Associates. On the other
hand, the total loss in numbers, from resignations, deaths
and other causes, was 24 Members and 113 Associates, making
a net decrease of 96.
This decrease in membership is due to a diminution in
the number of candidates for election rather than to an
increase in the number of resignations ; for whereas in 1915
the number of elections was 41 (including 7 Members), the
average number for the five years preceding the war, 1909-1913,
was 122 (including 21 Members), and on the other hand the
number of resignations in 1915 was only 98, as against an
average of 63 for the years 1909-1913. We think that under
the present circumstances, it is a matter for congratulation
that the increase in the number of resignations is not larger,
March, 1916. Report of Council for the Year 1915. 153
and we are glad to record that many members, when writing
to resign, have expressed their appreciation of the Society's
work and their hope of rejoining later.
The total membership is now 1116, the numbers being
distributed as follows : Members, 263 (including 27 Honorary
and Corresponding Members) ;
Associates, 853 (including 11
Honorary Associates).
We drew attention last year to the marked falling off in
the sale of publications which took place after the outbreak
of war, and the sale in this country continues to be
much below the average. The amount realised during 1915
by the sale of publications to members at the Rooms of
the Society was £19 10s. 6d., whereas the average annual
receipts for the five years 1909-1913 were £46 lis. Id. ; and
the amount realised in 1915 through our London agent by
the sale of publications to persons who are not members of
the Society was £39 6s. 6d., whereas the average for the
five years preceding the war was £82 Os. 7d. In each case
it will be seen that the receipts last year were less than
half the average. On the other hand, the amount realised
in 1915 by the sale of publications in America was £16 13s. lid.
the average for the years 1909-1913 being £19 10s. 6d. It
will be seen that the decrease in this case is far less marked,
and this strengthens the probability that the decrease in the
other sales is due to the war, since this would naturally have
less effect in America than in England.
The decrease in our membership and in the sale of publica-
tions, together with the discontinuance of all subscriptions
from hostile countries, has inevitably caused a considerable
diminution in the income of the Society, and we propose,
if necessary, to meet this diminution by using part of the
income from the Endowment Fund. This income now amounts
to about £280 per annum, and the intention had been that
it should be allowed to accumulate longer.
It is not only financially that the Society has been affected
by the war. Its activities have been to some extent restricted
by the fact that many of those upon whose co-operation we
usually reckon are now engaged in war-work. Thus, Mr.
Feilding is engaged on Government work, Dr. M'Dougall is
in charge of the Neurological Section of the Royal Victoria
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Maech, 1916.
Hospital, Netley, and Dr. Woolley is working in a military
hospital at Tooting. The majority, in fact, of our medical
members are now working in war-hospitals. Amongst the
cases which have come mider their observation are some
which throw an interesting light on the problems of psycho-
therapeutics, cases, for example, of " shell-shock," so that
although the energies of these members are at present diverted
from psychical research, we hope that our Medical Branch
may reap the benefit of their experiences when the war
is over.
The deflection of public interest into other channels has
been shown by a decrease in the enquiries and correspondence
received by the Secretary, and by the smaller number of
readers in the Library.
The number of well-evidenced spontaneous cases which
we receive from or through our members continues, we think,
to be disappointing. One might perhaps have expected that
the war, with its large tale of casualties and with the in-
creased emotional tension accompanying it, would have pro-
duced a number of interesting experiences, and indeed the
important paper read by Mr. Bayfield at the meeting on
November 22nd, does deal with those of one percipient. But
on the whole, evidence of apparitions at the time of death
or wounding has been conspicuous by its absence. Such
cases have doubtless occurred, but practically none of those
which have reached us have come up on investigation to
the standard of evidence required. There was, for instance,
one where the parents of a soldier reported that they had
dreamt of him, and his sister that she had seen a vision of
him, on the night he was killed. But no first-hand evidence
of their having mentioned their experiences before they knew
of the death was forthcoming. Another case reporting that
a vision of a son by his mother had occurred at the time
of his death, turned out to have no foundation whatever.
In a third case (not, however, a war case) which looked
promising, leave to publish even anonymously has been refused
on religious grounds.
We have enquired, so far as was possible, into two matters
connected with the war which seemed likely to be of some
interest to the Society.
March, 1916. Report of the Council for the Year 1915. 155
(a) In the Journal for December, 1914, we inserted a notice
asking for first-hand information concerning the alleged passing
of Kussian troops through this country in August, 1914.
We entered into this enquiry with the idea that if the reports
about these troops should prove entirely without foundation,
the case would be psychologically interesting as a remarkable
instance of the speed with which a false rumour may spread.
We did not receive a large number of replies to our enquiry,
but the most probable conclusion to be drawn from those
that were sent us is that these rumours, hke many others,
were composed of a large superstructure of fancy built on
a small basis of fact.
There seems to be little doubt that Eussian soldiers were
actually seen in this comitry during August, 1914, and this
can be accounted for by the fact that a certain number of
Russian stalf-ofiicers were in England at the time, accompanied
by their orderhes. The behef that these Russian troops were
very numerous was encouraged by the accidental circumstance
that just at that date large numbers of Territorials were
being moved from the north of Scotland southwards, which
accoimts for the numerous reports of troop trains thundering
all night through junctions. This is the explanation of the
" Russian myth " which was quoted in the Times of April
29th, 1915, on the authority of Mr. H. B. Steele, Hon. Secre-
tary of the Press Representatives' Committee at the Press
Bureau.
From several statements which have reached us it seems
hkely that the " materialising " energy of these Russian ghosts
was further increased by the fact that during this same month
of August, 1914, a substantial body of Russian reservists
passed through this country on their way home from America.
These men, of course, were not in uniform, but their nationality
was likely to become known in any places through which
they passed, and so the tale of " Russian troops in England
"'
grew yet more.
The psychological moral to be drawn from this incident is
that human testimony is of very little scientific value, unless
it is of a definite character and given at first-hand—a con-
clusion often suggested by our investigations and still further
reinforced by another recent enquiry.
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. March, 1916.
(6) In the early part of last year stories began to be widely
prevalent concerning the alleged " visions of angels " on the
battlefields in France and Belgium. In the Jiily Journal
we printed a notice asking oui' readers to send us, if they
could, first-hand accounts of these supposed apparitions.
The correspondence which resulted from this request was
voluminous, and a report upon it appeared in the December
Journal. The result of the enquiry was in the main negative.
We were unable to obtain any satisfactory evidence at first-
hand, and it became apparent that in weighing such evidence
as was available, a large allowance must be made for exaggera-
tion and inaccuracy.
Attention has sometimes been drawn to the fact that much
of the best evidence for experimental telepathy was obtained
in the early days of the Society, and that there has been
a falling ofi^ in this respect in recent years. As the remedy
for this would be that more people should interest themselves
in the subject and try experiments, a notice was printed
in the Journal for February saying that the Society was
anxious to try some further experiments in telepathy and
inviting members and their friends to offer themselves as
subjects. Ten members responded to this invitation, with
seven of whom experiments were conducted in the course
of the spring on over thirty occasions. The number of
experiments which took place on each occasion ranged from
about three to six, and two, or sometimes three persons took
part in each experiment.
The conditions of these experiments varied ;
usually both
the agent and the percipient were at the Rooms of the Society,
but in one instance only the agent was there, the percipient
being at a distance. In three cases the percipients were
hypnotised, or at least an attempt was made to hypnotise
them ; with the other four percipients hypnotism was not
employed. No attempt was made on any occasion to hypno-
tise the agent. The subjects chosen for transmission included,
(a) visual images of various kinds, diagrams, pictures, etc.,
and (6) action.
Except in the case of one percipient, these experiments must
be reckoned as failures, that is to say, the degree of success
was never beyond what might be accounted for by chance-
March, 1916. Report of the Council for the Year 1915. 157
coincidence. As regards the one exception, it should be noted
that only a very small measure of success was obtained as long
as the series of experiments was conducted under conditions
similar to those which obtained in the other series. Subse-
quently, however, it was arranged that the percipient, Mrs.
Stuart Wilson, should try some experiments with Mrs. Salter ^
in connection with Mrs. Salter's automatic writing. Interesting
results followed, and it is hoped that a report upon them
will be published later.
Some of our members are inclined to complain that so
much attention is now devoted to the study of automatic
writing, and we may therefore observe that this circumstance
is not wholly due to the perversity oi investigators.
In the present case it was not the intention of those who
arranged these experiments that they should be in any way
concerned with automatic writing, but the fact remains that
until this element was introduced the result of the experiments
was of very little interest.
In the Lent Term, 1915, Mrs. Salter gave a course of
lectures on psychical research to third-year students in psycho-
logy at King's College, University of London. Considerable
interest was shown in the subject, and Mrs. Salter was asked
to repeat the course in the following October Term. This,
however, she was unable to do on account of her marriage.
An interesting Presidential Address was delivered in July
by Professor Gilbert Murray, and we hope to publish it later,
together with a detailed report on some experiments in thought-
transference carried out by Professor Murray himself, upon
which the conclusions suggested in his address were largely
based.
We have to record with regret the death, as a result of
the sinking of the Lusitania, of Mr. E. W. Friend, who was
for a time Assistant Secretary to the American Society for
Psychical Research, and had already published several in-
teresting articles in the American Journal. Mr. Friend was
intending to devote himself to psychical research, and since
he was well qualified for this work, his loss is serious.
1 The Assistant Research OfSoer, Miss H. de G. Verrall, was married in
the course of the year and is now Mrs. W. H. Salter. For the present, how-
ever, she is continuing her work for the Society.
s->
^ I
^ i
«
a
o
z
O
00 O O
1-1 l-H
O.) tH (Nr.
CO O iHts.
COrH
OOOOCOt-C'l»-'SI>OOOt>-oOX(MOOOiCC^
f—!i—ItHt-I „^,_IiH t—I 1—I rH
-^QOiOiH w r-(iH CO
1—1
vO o
rH
O
CO 00
00 r-l
rH
u:> CO oo O OOO 00 O
r-l
,,,,,, , , ,
IH
OOO O CO l-H
I—
1
Cl r-l OOO o OSr-(
O CO I
O O 'OO ' • CM
CO i-t rH r-H
y a
o .
.2 x-2
5 o S
3 g .
S to
k3
c o
OS I
2 o
? =^
p-l
o =J
oO
P.O
Pi S
HO
— K-V
C 0^ <p
c
il
Phco
•3 c
Co
I-
O dJ E
=«
S a &s
O 3 tH
2 cs
=a S S
ft a
'GO
3
C CD
a
^^^^
IS
CO
a
o
ujj
^
X u c S S
ij'c =3 p a
fe 3 , .
o
I> rHOOO rHO (NO rH
rH
o rH rH G; ,-1 OOO CD o O
r-l rH
rH CO Tf oco W CO rHO >o
"TT rH O OOO 00
rH 00 in (M CM
i-T
OOO o OOCOO
00 oi l-H rH cod O
rH rH rH rH
C; rH T-H rH O CO t>
o I'.
fe § , ,
o
Si's
S c S t- >>
5 5 o o
Q Sis S S
-3 s s r
O CO CO
CJC-.CD
rH CO I-)
— 3
cH
3
C t-*
O 03
t3 ft
P o
~ 3 5
in o
r-i I—
I
<:0 CO
O
oi cj a: o oi '
—M '[J ^ w ». ^-U
^ ^ ^ o 2 o3 <^
'i a S S
03-'-' § S,5>
"3
m
o
H
a 03
.2 S
2" £
t- C3
3
CO ft-s j-.^ a
03'n'B|
3 o^ 03 ^ s-t
en— >v^ ^
n O 03 - ;
03 1
3 i; i. -
t-i 03
2 C.2 S
3 °h3 &
§^ . o
^ ^ -
'^"^
C3 C <b c C
O *- :l o
o <t' ^xi ^
^ (- Cm C
"3 3°
to P! i-i
1-2
CO n
Q 5 CD -t; c
5 cs 0) = oj
^ ^ Tt< CO s
4i 4J
5 =
o o <u .Sf o s
o I £ g.cS-° ° °
^ * » " ^ ^ V,-c.,S<c,
O " "
lO o o S I?: t-i »
-M = o ^ . lo -js in
I
Oh
g
o o
o m CO
O T-l
O i-i
a
CI
£co
«'2
O e3
o 2
a g
lO CO
C
3
O
H
Ph
o
.a
3
a
t3
-S o
§ 2
fq5
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. March, 1916.
Two Parts of Proceedings have been published during the
year ; a short Part (No. LXX.) in May, 1915, containing a
report on some experiments in thought-transference and some
further discussion of automatic scripts, and a complete Volume
(Part LXXI.) in December, 1915, containing a report by
Mrs. Sidgwick on the psychology of Mrs. Piper's trance-
phenomena.
Four meetings of the Society were held during the year.
The dates and subjects of the papers read were as follows
:
*January 29th. " Cross-Correspondences of a GaUie
Type," by Mr. J. G. Piddington. (To appear later
in the Proceedings.)
March 23rd. " An Icelandic '
Seer,' " by Miss Helen
de G. Verrall. (Printed in the Journals for April-
June, 1915.)
*July 9th. " Presidential Address," by Professor Gilbert
Murray. (To appear in the next Part of the Pro-
ceedings.)
November 22nd. " Some Recent Cases of Premoni-
tion and Telepathy," by the Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
(Printed in the Journal for January and February,
1916.)
A NOTE ON "SOME RECENT EXPERIMENTS
IN TELEPATHY."
By James H. Hyslop.
The experiments by the Misses Tipping and Miss Verrall in
Part LXX. of the Proceedings will usually be adjudged, accord-
ing to the title, either for or against the claims made. Those
familiar with experiments already published and also accepting
the hypothesis will not raise objections. But men like Dr.
Ivor Tuckett will make a wholesale denial probably and
sceptics generally will probably not accept their evidential
nature. But the present reviewer accepts them as very
good evidence for the supernormal, while desiring to call
attention to what seems to him to be the fact that they
do not decide between telepathy and another interpretation
of them, namely, clairvoyance. It seems to the present
* Those marked \\ ith an asterisk were General Meetings.
Maech, lOKi. Note on Some Recent Experiments in Telepathy. 161
writer that the phenomena can better be referred to clair-
voyance than to telepathy, meaning by that term the per-
ception of physical objects supernormally and independently
of mind-reading or telepathy. He may be wrong in so regard-
ing them, but it is wort^h while calling attention to the
possibility that the fact may be evidence of the supernormal
without deciding the issue between two types of it.
The ground for suspecting clairvoyance in the case is that
in nearly all cases the knowledge of the percipient was rather
of the physical objects in the environment of the agent
than always the special object thought of, though usually the
object thought of was also evidently in the mind of the
percipient. But in two cases the intended thought of the
agent was not received. This is noticeable especially in experi-
ments 4 and 14. In the first of these two the intention was
to communicate the idea of War, and the physical object
placed before the agent was a map of Bulgaria. Something
square and dark was " seen " by the percipient, but no hint
of the idea of war. In the fourteenth experiment the object
thought of was a Madonna and Child, and the picture was
on the wall of the room where the agent was sitting. But
what the percipient " saw " was a coin which might be inter-
preted as an obscure perception of the face and halo.
In the other instances, at least all but one, the objects
mentioned by the percipient could have been perceptively
" seen " and not telepathically " perceived." If the experi-
ments had not been conducted with emphasis on external
objects, the coincidence between telepathic and clairvoyant
perception could not have been observed. It seems to the
present writer that obscure perception of the objects instead
of telepathic access to the agent's mind is just as possible
an interpretation as the telepathic one.
To decide the issue in such cases something should be
intently thought of that is not associated with the objects
before the agent, and if those thoughts are obtained, the
objection from clairvoyance would not apply. It seems that
motions and physical objects are, or were regarded as more
or less necessary to success, and the experiments were con-
ducted under that view. This makes no difference when
you are testing the hypothesis of the supernormal, but in deciding
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. March, 1916.
the question between telepathy and clairvoyance, we should
have to see that the thought to be conveyed had no natural
or necessary connection with the objects and the motions
performed. I do not deny the possibility of giving the pheno-
mena a telepathic interpretation, but it is just as possible
to give them a clairvoyant interpretation. It may be im-
possible to experiment in these instances without resorting
to methods that threaten these two separate interpretations
with a conflict, but it might be well to try a series in the
manner suggested. I do not think the issue of the super-
normal is involved ; for I think the coincidences are hardly
due to chance. But the interpretation of them may be debated.
James H. Hyslop.
[The December number of the Journal of the American
Society for Psychical Research contains a more detailed review
by Dr. Hyslop of these same experiments. In this review
he also takes into account some earlier experiments by the
Misses Tippiiig- -not published in our Proceedings—which he
considers as strengthening the evidence for telepathy against
clairvoyance.
It should be noted in connexion with Dr. Hyslop's argument
that telepathy can only be eliminated as a possible cause
by eliiTiinating the agent altogether. Experiments on these
lines have been tried, but %vith scant success, and the
burden of proof lies therefore with the advocates of clair-
voyance. H. DE G. S.]
NOTE ON A CURRENT PERIODICAL.
Archives de Psychologie, Nos. 57-58, May, 1915, is a double number
of 224 pp. devoted to a masterly study of '
A Modern Mystic
'
by Prof. Flournoy, which is of the greatest importance and
interest to all those who are concerned with religion, psychical
research and individual psychology. It is naturally impossible to
summarize the detail of so elaborate a study in this Journal, but
some idea may be given of its contents. The mystic in question
is the principal of a flourishing girls' school in French Switzerland,
intelligent and educated, energetic, healthy though hard-worked,
and very religious. Nevertheless she had inherited from her
Maech, 1916. Note on a Current Periodical. 1Q3
mother's side a certain neuropathic tendency which had been
developed in consequence of her personal experiences into painful
obsessions, to be relieved of^ which she had appealed to Prof.
Flournoy in December, 1910. He treated her (at first) by hyp-
notism and suggestion, and the revelations contained in his study
are an eloquent proof of how completely he won her ponfidence.
The narrative consists largely of confidential and contemporaneous
reports of her experiences to her spiritual director which were
written without any suspicion that they would ever be published.
In the autumn of 1912 the '
mystical ' developments of Mile
'
CecUe Ve's '
psychic life began by her feeling conscious from time
to time of the presence of an invisible Friend or Helper who
sympathized with her troubles. Prof. Flournoy compares him to
the '
Leopold ' of '
Helene Smith,' but the religious model and
inspiration of the phenomenon are obvious. After being consoled
by this spiritual visitor for six months, in March, 1913, '
Mile Ve,'
being then 50 years of age, had her first taste of the mystical
experience of ecstasy. Her description of it certainly accords very
remarkably with those which Roman Catholic mystics have ren-
dered classical, and the confirmation of them by one holding very
definitely Protestant views seems valuable testimony to the objec-
tive reality of the experience, even though it is perhaps unfor-
tunate that '
Mile Ve '
appears to have been already acquainted
with the famous account of mysticism in James's Varieties of
Religious Experience. At any rate, it is important to note that
though she was irresistibly impressed with her experiences, she
never became incapable of a certain critical reserve, perhaps
because they did not accord with her spiritual tastes. The God
she desired was a personal being ; the '
divine '
she encountered
seemed the irruption of something wholly impersonal, and '
beyond
good and evil '
in the Nietzschean phrase she unconsciously
adopted, a manifestation of power, not of love. Moreover, part of
the price paid for contact with it was the total extinction of
personal being ; the rest was made up of anticipatory fears and
hesitations and physical pains and distresses that followed upon
the ecstasy. All these drawbacks of the mystical experience are
described with the utmost vividness and candour, so that the
critical reader, who has not the experience but only descriptions
of it to go upon, cannot but feel that the question of the moral
value of mysticism will sooner or later have to be raised. And
this whether the phenomenon is regarded as merely subjective
1.64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. March, 1916.
and psychological or as attesting a reality that transcends the
mystic's personality. After all the experience may have to be
regarded as emanating from something diabolical rather than
divine, if its consequences turn out to be predominantly bad. Or
possibly, if moral interpretations are ruled out, the '
mystical
'
experience may tell us what death feels like. However this may
be, it should be noted that between the 2nd March, 1913, and
the 31st July, 1914,
'•
MUe Ve '
had 31 ecstasies. Then the war
came and upset her school, and imposed on her fresh demands of
social service, thus switching off her energies from preoccupation
with the state of her soul. Few will contend that this suppression
of '
Mile Ve's '
mystical experience is either a justification or a
condemnation of the war ; but it is a curious fact. At any rate,
we may feel that the subsequent incidents of '
Mile Ve's '
spiritual
career are sure to be of interest to psychologists, and psychical
researchers will doubtless note also that in Prof. Flournoy's
opinion her endowment is distinctly '
mediumistic,' and that she
might have developed into a good '
medium '
if her religious
convictions had not given her a strong prejudice against spiritism.
F. C. S. Schiller.
No. CCCXXVIII.—Vol. XVII. "
Apkii., 1916.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
f"' T 17 T y
PAOK
- 166
- 170
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
FOR
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES ONLY
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On FRIDA Y, APRIL 14///, 1916, at 4 p.nu
, WHEN A PAPER ON
''A New Automatist"
WILL KE READ BY
Mrs. W. H. SALTER.
N.B.
—
JVo Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be ad)nitted on signing their names at the door.
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1916.
IN MEMORIAM—EDWIN WILLIAM FRIEND.
BoTtN June 15, 1886—Died Ma^ 7, 1915.
In this period of flux, when we of America are perhaps sun-
dered more completely from old ideals than you of Europe and
even less advanced towards new, a pioneer is a precious man
to us. When that man is a scholar trained, his value is more
than doubled, and his loss the greater. When Edwin Friend
went down with the Lusitania his loss was more than a
personal matter, for he was one of the few who combine keen
mind with deep moral purpose and bold aspiration in philo-
soplxical research. Like many a young thinker he felt the
stress and strain of our industrialized society, saw the pro-
gressive disintegration of our applied philosophies of life, and
deeply deplored the almost universal tendency to materialism.
Unlike most, however, he refused to stop at barren discontent,
but spent his whole energy in looking for the promise of a
cure.
For this reason there was in his interest in psychical research
a determination, immixed with lax mysticism, to plumb those
depths of our existence that science has so far left uncharted.
Friend's method and his true value can only be understood
when considered in the light of his training and development.
Born in Indianapolis, in the Middle West,' he grew up among
" practical " people, pioneers and the children of pioneers who
had no bent for speculation, no great interest in education.
His own father, far from supporting him in his desire to learn,
discouraged him from any ambition but the accepted business
career. But it chanced that he and two or three companions,
drawn by a common interest or curiosity for knowledge, began
to study and experiment in the exact sciences with results
which carried them far beyond the ordinary preparatory school
work. Thus at thirteen or fourteen a group was formed so
intimately bound by a spirit of research that through the later
years of high-school and university life it persisted.
Young Friend was most active in his studies of physics,
chemistry, biology, geology and the like. But the breadth of
his point of view and the idealism of the boy are well shown
in a paper he wrote when barely fourteen, in which he de-
Apeil, 1916. In Memoriam—Edivin William Friend. 167
scribes the student of to-day, the investigator in new fields, as
a modern knight-errant, giving his Ufe to a glorious journey
through science, exploring for the good of mankind. Though it
is written in the florid vocabulary of a youngster who has read
almost too much of the world classics, the devotion to an
ideal which dominated his later life is already revealed. The
boy shows the aspirations of the man.
He had already become interested in modern languages
before he entered Harvard University, and this interest carried
him, before he left, into a deep study of Greek, Latin and
Sanscrit. He acquired languages with facility, for he grasped
so completely the spirit of each that its construction and
syntax seemed natural aiid easy. French and German he
mastered thoroughly enough to pass as a native in either
country, while he read Italian, Russian, Swedish and Flemish
without difficulty. This linguistic preparation, which would have
been a life work for many men, was merely the backgroimd
and the tool of an impelling interest in philosophy and psycho-
logy. This greater interest of his which we have seen fore-
shadowed by the childish essays of years before was matured
by the lectures of such men as Hoyce and James, and possibly
even more by wide reading coupled with a constant intellectual
intercourse with friends. The early Indianapolis group, far
from breaking dov\Ti, was a dominating influence of his univer-
sity career, for these friends had gone on with him to Harvard.
These men lived together, studied and talked, kept their
differentiating interests bound by a common breadth of view,
and, through a realization of the larger miity of their lives,
made their discussions training-schools of thought.
In 1908 Friend received his Bachelor's degree, in 1909 his
Master's degree, and in the autumn of 1910 he left for Berlin
on a travelHng fellowship in philosophy. Knowing the language
already almost perfectly, he met no barrier in his effort to feel
the contact of German thought. The lectui'es, and, even more,
the exchange of ideas with German students—for his very
presence bred deep discussion—were doubtless important in
giving him a new angle in his point of view, but he conceived
a distaste for what he felt to be the growing materialism of
modern Germany. Like many other foreign students there who
escape the lure of material perfection, he was repelled by the
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Aphil, 1916.
national philosophy of the relation of the individual to the
state.
At the end of this year he returned to the United States to
teach Latin and Greek at Princeton University. There he
remained two years, making warm friends particularly among
his students. His ability to breed interest in a subject from
his own deep interest, to make the past vital to the present,
proved him an admirable teacher. He was increasingly con-
scious, however, that not even his deep sympathy for the
classics could reconcile him to the teaching of mere language.
For this reason he accepted gladly the opportunity which
offered itself to him two years later, to go to Harvard as
assistant in philosophy. There the time was passed in teaching
and in further study on his own part.
This slight sketch of Edwin Friend's early career has,
perhaps, given a fairly definite indication of what the man's
interests were to become. Grounded early in science, the real
tendency of his mind was to speculation. The vague idealism
of the fourteen-year-old boy had become passionate interest
in philosophy in the young man. But, just as he had felt
science to be knight-errantry in the service of mankind, so he
deemed philosophy a means and living truth the end. During
his college course he had come upon Myers's great book on the
survival of human personality, and this was probably the
turning-point in his life, the event that formed him. He
eagerly consumed the two volumes, and, fired with enthusiasm,
read long passages to his group of friends, leading them in
long discussions which were to result in moulding once for all
his life purpose.
Through the rest of his university work, through his years
at Berlin and Princeton, his deep interest in psychical research
never flagged. James had said to him, at one time, that he
considered psychical research the most important scientific
investigation of the twentieth century, and this judgement
Friend took to liimself. When in the spring of 1914 he was
asked to become the assistant secretary of the American
Society for Psychical Research, he accepted the offer, and took
up the double task of editing the Journal and of investigation.
Not the least of Friend's qualifications for this work was his
range of interests. His omnivorous reading, which he had
April, 1916. In Memoriam—Edwin Williavi Friend. 169
carried on from his first school-days, and of late years in three
or four languages, had given him the breadth of background
necessary to a man who would face the world with an un-
popular new hypothesis. This, with his philosophical training
and his inherent feeling for logic and method, led him to
organize in his mind the scattered phenomena of the great
field of psychic research. He died too soon to have made
more than the merest beginnings of this synthesis, but those
who have talked with him or who have read his few articles
are aware of a fluency of idea, striking in logic and coherence.
In the actual routine of his work, if one may speak of the
routine of such a subject, was the sympathetic application of
modern critical methods of investigation. His wife, whom he
married in the early summer of 1914, had previously done
some automatic writing, though with negligible results. She
now developed into an automatist of considerable power, and
it was largely through her work that his researches were
pursued.
The material thus obtained was largely of philosophic nature.
Friend felt keenly the significance of the moie specific evi-
dential matter which goes to make up the scientific proof of
survival. He realized, however, that in the case under his
observation, development of the automatist could best be
furthered by careful consideration on his part of the material
which offered itself. Thus, thoroughly alive to the manifold
difiiculties which beset such work, he gave much time and
thought to discussion in the sittings of the ethical implications
of survival, and its relation to our philosophic conceptions. It
was his hope to carry his work eventually to the point of
evidence, but not alone to the evidence shown by detailed
allusion to obscure fact. He felt that in the last analysis the
only evidence which can carry utter conviction to thinking
men is that which shows development as well as continuing
identity of the purported communicator. He felt also that
proof of this kind can only be made clear by the application
of pragmatic tests to those precepts advocated in communi-
cations.
Myers, James, and Hodgson, aided by certain individuals
who, as in the Piper case, signed themselves with Latin
pseudonyms, wrote through Mrs. Friend. We cannot here
170 JoiLrnal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1916.
adequately analyse or attempt to evaluate the results, as the
record covers a period of over eight months' constant work.
In style, however, in intellectual grasp, and in pliilosophic
content they are vividly characteristic.
This work of research, which was carried on with his editing
of the Journal, was interrupted last May by his departure for
Europe. There had been some internal disagreement in the
society which culminated in Friend's resignation. A group of
those interested felt that it would be worth while to form a
sub-society centering at Boston, and it was to gain the co-
operation of the Enghsh S.P.R. that Friend left for England.
Miss Pope of Farmington, who sailed on the Lusitania on the
same errand, brought details of his death. Friend had faced
the crisis with all the strength of his belief. He refused to
board a lifeboat while there were yet women and children to
be saved, and had secured life-belts for Miss Pope and for her
maid. Then with steady, cheering words he led the way to
the side, bade them follow after him, and leapt from the fast
sinking ship into the sea.
Though he was scarcely twenty-eight, and had begun his
hfe-work less than a year before, he had clearly shown his
metal. With added experience and maturity, with the accumu-
lation of data, and with the aid of fellow investigators, he
could not have failed, clear of mind and of purpose as he was,
to exert a very great influence on the movement towards
psychical research and on modern thought. He was more than
a student, more than a pioneer, he was a philosopher.
Norman Parker.
CORRESPONDENCE.
" INFLUENCES " AND SURVIVAL.
{To the Editor of the S.P.R. Journal.)
February 1st, 1916.
The chapter on " influences,"' in Mrs. Sidgwick's admirable
"Study of the Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena," is of
special interest to me. This part of the subject has been rather
neglected, I think ; and it seems worth while to draw attention to
it, and to consider certain important bearings that it may have
on the question of survival.
April, 1916. Correspondence. in
Mrs. Sidgwick refers, with characteristic caution, to the " sup-
posed " influence of these rapport-objects, and remarks that " one's
first impression naturally is that all this must be nonsense
"
{Proceedings, Vol. XXVIIL, pp. 305-306), going on to say, however,
that some effect does seem to be produced. This, to me, is both
amusing and instructive ;
amusing because it seems so timorous
about something that I am quite sure of, instructive because it
illustrates once more how greatly we are at the mercy of our own
personal experience in investigation. Mrs. Sidgwick accepts tele-
pathy with ease, and, as it seems to me, invokes it rashly ;
while she hesitates about the efficacy of " influences." I, on the
other hand, am convinced of the latter—rashly so, as it will no
doubt seem to her ; while I have doubts about any very extensive
telepathy. The explanation lies, I supj^ose, in our different
experiences.
My own experiences with a local trance-medium, plus knowledge
of the experiences of intimate friends of mine with the same
person, leave me in no doubt of the su^^ernormality of some of
the knowledge shown ; and I am fairly sure that the hypothesis
of telepathy from the sitter's normal consciousness is insufficient.
I am also inclined to rule out, in some cases, the supposition of
telepathy from the sitter's subliminal consciousness, there being
no evidence to suggest that the knowledge in question was there.
E.g. when a sitter received a correct diagnosis from a lock of hair
without knowing, so far as I know or can reasonably infer,
anything about the distant person's ailment. It remains, therefore,
to decide whether the rapport-object actually carries the infor-
mation in some unknown way, or whether it establishes a tele-
pathic rapport between the control and the distant patient. And
this point I have never yet been able to decide finally, though I
now lean to the telepathic-rapport theory rather than to psycho-
metry. One thing however seems indicated,—that the telepathy
extends to the patient's subliminal, if it is telepathy at all ; for
in two striking cases known to me, the control's diagnosis was in
complete disagreement with what the patient and (so far as was
known) everybody else believed, yet the control turned out to be
right. Of course this idea of telepathy from a subliminal is more
or less hazardous, and some may favour the psychometric notion ;
but on the whole there seems more evidence in favour of the
former. And, though in the two cases the knowledge was not
possessed by any normal mind—though indeed it might exist as a
l72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1916.
guess—we are at least justified in supposing that a patient's
subliminal knows a good deal more about his bodily state than his
normal consciousness does ; for it knows how to produce blisters,
stigmata, and how to effect various remedial changes, in some
hypnotised subjects.
On the whole, then, I incline to think that a rapport-object
serves as a link between mind and mind and not as an actual
carrier of information. But it is very desirable that the question
should be further cleared up. If psychometry of the sort claimed
in old books like Denton's Soul of Things and new books like
Hooper's Spirit Psychometry is a real fact, much of the Piper
evidence becomes valueless so far as it is supposed to point to
survival ; for in many cases an " influence " was presented, and
on the psychometry hypothesis this object could or might convey
any amount of information about its former owner, whether that
owner was still in existence on the other side, or not. If on the
other hand psychometry is disproved or rendered improbable, the
Piper evidence for survival remains as good—broadly speaking—as
Dr. Hodgson thought it; the "influences" being regarded as links
between the control and the now discarnate owner of the object.
Concerning presentation of " influences " of dead people, my
experience has not been wide, but I have just lately had a fair
amount. A few months ago there died a dear friend of mine
with whom I had for years had a compact that the one to go
first should try to communicate and give evidence of identity.
She sent me sealed envelopes containing test-words, also a number
of worn gloves, etc., which she herself wrapped up carefully in
oiled silk (the best " insulator," Hodgson long ago told me)
during the last weeks of her illness. I presented one of these to
a psychic friend—not a professional medium—who gets automatic
writing, a few days after my friend died. She was said to be
" sleeping " mostly, and no evidence was forthcoming. Three days
later the glove was presented to a professional trance-medium, by
a sitter who—it was purposely arranged—knew nothing about the
dead person except that she was a friend of mine and a woman.
Some few details were obtained, such as that death had taken
place recently in " the prime of her life " and that the disease was
of a certain character (all correct) and the first two letters of the
surname were correctly given. But there was nothing evidential
in the way of a definite message, although my friend purported
to be present
—
i.e., was said by the control to be so. About the
Apeii., 1916. Correspondence. 173
same time I sent another glove to a very good normal clairvoyant
near here, who is well known to me, and he got correct details
about the illness, but felt that the person was " not yet awake."
He kept the glove, at my request, and tried on many occasions
to " get something "'
from it, but without further success. On
Jan. 19 I had a personal sitting with him, and he handled both
the glove and a small silver box which had belonged to the same
person ; but he got nothing except an impression of flowers (she
sent me more flowers during my own illness than anybody else,
so this is slightly evidential) although he proceeded to give me a
large amount of evidential matter about other deceased people
whom—so far as I know and believe—he had never heard of.
Now, if psychometry were a fact, should I not have had evidential
facts given me at once, from the handling of the glove, much
more extensively than was the case ? If on the other hand it
serves only as a telepathic link, naturally I shall not get much
evidence until the mind of the owner wakes up from the recupera-
tive sleep which is supposed to follow death. It may of course
be said that the two mediums failed to get much evidence because
of their belief in this post-mortem sleep ; but this will not do,
for one of them was told nothing about the date of the death
—
it might have been years ago—and the other could not have been
thus influenced on Jan. 19, for he believes that people generally
" wake up " within a few days of death, and he knew that my
friend died over two months before the sitting.
But if my friend was entirely unconscious and unable to com-
municate, how came it that both mediums, though failing to set
any real message, nevertheless got evidential details about the
disease from which she suffered, and one or two other things ?
Perhaps, after all, an " influence " bears some psychical traces of
the owner, which can be perceived by sensitives without any
assisting activity of that owner's mind ; while for any message
involving initiative, the awakened mind is of course required. But,
if so, we are back nearly at the old difficulty ;
for, until we
know the extent of the possibility of these psychical traces, it
will be impossible to infer with safety the activity of the supposed
discarnate mind.
And there, for me, the matter rests at present, unsatisfactorily
enough. The two things I am sure of, are, that influences
"
really help in the production of supernormal phenomena of the
class indicated, and that this side of the subject deserves more
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, ioib.
attention than it has hitherto received. Perhaps one thing remains
to be said, in case it is asked how I know that the information
would not be forthcoming just the same, without any object being
presented. The answer is : Because when an object is presented,
the supernormal things said are specially relevant thereto ;
whereas,
when no object is presented at all—as in most of my own sittings
—though I usually receive evidence of various sorts, it has no
perceptible relation to what I am expecting or thinking about.
Some of the soi-disant spirits of my Jan. 19 sitting were people
I had not thought of for months, until the medium gave the
name, with accompanying detail. I think this justifies me in
believing that the efficacy of " influences " is due to something
more than the medium's self-suggestion, though of course I do not
claim that it " proves "it. I think none of us claims that
anything " proves " anything in psychical research !
J. Arthur Hill.
Claremont, Thornton,
Bradford.
REVIEW.
The Yoga-System of Patanjali, or The Ancient Hindu Doc-
trine OF Concentration of Mind, embracing the Mnemonic
Rules, called Yoga-Sutras, of Patanjali ; the Comment, called
Yoga-Bhdshya, attributed to Veda-Vydsa, and the Explanation,
called Tattva-Vdigdradi, of Vdchaspati-MiQra. Translated from
the original Sanskrit by James Haughton Woods. (Harvard
Oriental Series, Vol. 17.)
For many centuries past, travellers returning from India have
brought back with them marvellous tales of holy men whom they
had seen practising ingenious and terrible forms of self-torture.
These sadhus or yogis, as they were called, would bury themselves
in the ground, leaving but their heads emerging ;
sway head
downwards over a slow fire, or suspend themselves from trees by
hooks thrust into the muscles of their backs ;
crouch, naked, in
the full heat of noon, between four sacrificial fires : or, with eyes
dazed by glare and madness, stare unceasingly at the blazing
circle of the sun. Thus Yoga has come, in the minds of many
people, to mean a system of brutalizing austerities, fitter for
madmen than for saints.
Yoga, however, is more than this—more, and less. First of all,
it is a complete system of philosophy. And, secondly, it is the
April, 1916. Revietv. 175
ancient system of disciplining the mind, whereby the Hindus, and,
following them, the Buddhists, sought to bring the consciousness
into that state which they call Samadhi, and which apparently
corresponds to the highest " degrees of orison " and " infused
contemplation " of the West€rn mystic. It is a text-book of this
science of menticulture that Professor Woods has translated for
us, in the seventeenth volume of the Harvard Oriental Series.
Max Miiller distinguished four kinds of Yoga-processes, viz.
Hatha Yoga (physical training), Laya Yoga (concentration), Raja
or " Royal " Yoga (breathing exercises), and Mantra Yoga (repe-
tition of sacred sentences or Mantra).
A better classification, however, would seem to l)e that given
by Swami Abhedananda, viz. Bhakti Yoga (union by love, that
is, devotion to a particular god or aspect of the Deity), Karma
Yoga (union by works or good deeds), Jnana Yoga (union by
knowledge), with Raja Yoga (mind discipline and concentration,
sometimes also called union by will), and its essential preliminary
Hatha Yoga.
The man or woman, then—for there are yoginis as well as
yogis—who wishes to attain Samadhi, must first renounce the
world and go far away from the haunts of men. The Swatmaram
Swami, a modern writer on Yoga, recommends a small cell
" situated in a place free from rocks, water and firC; of the
extent of a bow's length, and in a fertile country ruled over by
a virtuous king." Here the aspirant must study the Vedas and
put himself under the care of a spiritual director or Guru. First,
he must practise the eighty-four chief Asanas or fixed postures of
meditation, and learn to remain in any one of them for hours
together, motionless. Some, as for example the ''
padma-asana
"
or lotus posture, have alluring names, but most of them would be
impossible to a European. Mr. R. W. Frazer, in Indian Thought
Past and Present, sarcastically describes a few of the " simpler and
milder practices," one of which Asanas is to be maintained, he
says, for twelve years, if the Yogi would gain magic powers of
body and mind.
Pranayama, or regulating of the breath, is an important part of
the recluse's training. So, too, Pratyahara, or the banishing of
intruding thoughts. But the chief business is the repetition of the
Mantra ;
" Om," " Om tat sat Om," and the great Gayatri Mantra
being the most usual. Similarly, Mohammedan mystics repeat the
Beautiful Names of God and the formula La illahe ill' Allah."
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1916.
Professor Duncan Macdonald in Religious Attitude and Life in
Islam gives an excellent account, drawn from Sufi sources, of the
method in which a sacred sentence is to be used. The Hindus hold
that something of the religious consciousness of the Guru passes to
his Chela with the giving of the Mantra. Finally, the seeker will
practise the concentration of his attention on some religious
symbol, as, for example, one of the five Tattwas, whose immediate
meanings are Earth, Air, Fire, Water and Spirit ; or on some one
idea ; and learn The restraint," as Pataiijali puts it, of the
" fluctuations of the mind stuff " (chitti).
So, then, the Yogi, by austerities, by physical training, by
repetition of holy words, and by the concentration of his mind on
some one symbol or idea, passes through the three stages of
consciousness known as Dharana, Dhyana and Samadhi. Fully to
explain these terms would take the writing of volumes. They are
usually translated as Concentration, Meditation and—no, there is
no usual translation of Samadhi. Hindu writers distinguish many
different kinds of Samadhi, and, according to Kern, one Maha-
yanist writer gives as many as 108.
In the science of Yoga, Patanjali holds much the same place
that St. Thomas Aquinas does in Scholastic Theology. Practically
all subsequent teaching has his Yoga-sutras, or mnemonic sen-
tences, as its text. Voluminous commentaries have been written
on the Sutras, though the majority of the teaching has always
been oral, and a great part of it secret. Two translations of the
Sutras, as far as I know, already exist in English, that of Swami
Vivekananda, with its naive and charming comments, and the
well-known one of Rajendra Lala Mitra. There was room, how-
ever, for Professor Woods' scholarly and accurate rendering. It is
the earnest hope of the present writer that the inclusion of this
volume in The Harvard Oriental Series may call attention to the wide
field of possible research into Hindu psychology and spiritual exercises,
to which the study of Patanjali forms so attractive a prelude.
Professor Woods has enriched his book with a full bibliography
and with a valuable introduction on the authorship of the Sutras,
their date and those of the Commentary and Explanation. In the
translation itself the chapters on supernormal powers, such as
clairvoyance, clairaudience, levitation, etc., will possibly be of most
interest to the members of the S.P.R., but the whole volume
demands the serious attention of all students of Comparative
Religion and of Religious Psychology. Aelfrida Tillyard.
No. CCCXXIX.—Vol. XVII. May, 1916.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CON T B N T S
.
New Memljer.s and Associates, . . - -
Meeting of the Council,
Private Meeting,
Dramatic Dreams,
Notice of Current Periodicals,
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Girdlestone, F. Kenneth, Roseiukle, Iffley, Oxford.
GregSOn, G. E., Hesketh Koad, Southport.
Mackenzie, James, 21st Protection Coy., Koyal Defence Corp.s,
Drill Hall, Newport, Monmouthshire.
Webb, Mrs. Curtis, 48 The Manor House, Marylebone Road,
London, N.W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 1 4:0th Meeting of the Coiincil was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, April 14th, 1916, at 6 p.m. ;
Sir William Barrett in the chair. There were also present :
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Dr. F. C. S.
Schiller, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Two new Members and two new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly Accounts for January-February, and March,
1916, were presented and taken as read.
PAdE
177
177
178
17S
1S3
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, Mat, 1916.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
The 53rd Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, April 14th, 1916, at 4 p.m. ;
Sir Lawrence Jones in the chair.
Mrs. W. H. Salter read a paper on " A New Automatist,"
which it is hoped will be published later with additional
material on the same subject.
DRAMATIC DREAMS: AN UNEXPLORED FIELD FOR
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
By L. p. Jacks.
The whole subject of dreams is virtually an unexplored terri-
tory waiting for the psychologist who will make it his province
in a thoroughly serious spirit. I say this after reading as
much of the literature of dreams as I could lay my hands on,
including the work of Freud.
I have frequently expressed this opinion to friends of mine
who take an active part in the work of Psychical Research.
I would not say that abnormal or supernormal phenomena like
automatic writing, or cross-correspondences, or haunted houses,
have received more attention than they deserve : but I do say
that the phenomena of dreams, which are a normal experience,
have received far less attention than they deserve. In current
psychology, as distinguished from Psychical Research, the
neglect of them is disgraceful and astonishing. They are
treated as a negligible side-show ; or as belonging to some
realm of nonsense which it is beneath the dignity of the
psychologist to consider.
I think it a pity also that Psychical Research, when it has
taken up the subject of dreams, has concentrated so much of
its thought on the question of the " veridical " character of a
certain limited class. This, no doubt, is a point of great
Mat, 1916. Dramatic Dreams 179
interest and worthy of due consideration. But veridical
dreams are exceptional, at all events, and not one whit more
" mysterious " than many other classes which are quite com-
mon, and which hardly receive an allusion in the literature
of the subject. Moreover, while so little is understood of the
psychology of common dreams, it seems futile to expect much
light on the nature of the " queer " ones.
In order to limit the subject I will here call attention to
I
only one class of common dreams, which, for want of a better
;
adjective, I call "dramatic."
By a dramatic dream I mean one in which more than one
person play distinct and yet interdependent parts, whether as
actors or as speakers, and in which the action leads on to an
issue or crisis unforeseen by any of the parties to its develop-
ment. To make this clearer I will quote an actual case.
In my dream I am walking in an unfamiliar country and
realize that I have lost my way. Presently I meet a stranger
} whose appearance greatly puzzles me, for he is clothed in a
sun helmet and white ducks. The feeling of being puzzled,
the knowledge that I do not know the person before me is,
be it observed, an integral part of the dream. I then ask
I
him to tell me the way home and wait for his reply, wondering
what it will be ; the waiting and the wondering being also
integral parts of the dream. To my surprise and horror—all
elements of the dream—he answers that I may give up all
hope of finding my way home, for I am in China, and the
nearest city is Shanghai.
The problem that now arises is, who is the author of this
stranger and of the part he plays, and of the effect that part
has upon me ? Who constructed this man in white ducks,
who put that reply in his mouth, who invented my sui-prise
and horror when I heard it ? Where did it all come from ?
The common answer is, of course, that the mind of the
dreamer does the whole thing. At some time or another I
had been reading about China and people in white ducks ;
I had also had the experience of losing my way, and out of
the medley of images stored in the brain my mind constructs
these groupings and works them up, in virtue of some
mysterious hanky-panky, into the scene described. In short,
the dream is simply the invention of the dreamer.
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1916.
A little consideration is enough to show that this kind of
explanation, into whatsoever details it may be worked out, is
sheer nonsense. .
The explanation involves three agents. The dreamer and
two dream personalities ; one of whom seems to be the original
dreamer himself " I ", and the other a second and distinct individual
(the man in white ducks). These two last and all that they say or
do are supposed to be the invention of the first, i.e. the dreamer
invents a dream-image of himself and another dream-image of
somebody else.
Up to that point the explanation presents no difficulties on
iriie surface (though there are plenty in the depths). The
constructive imagination of the novelist or dramatist seems to
present a perfect analogy. Psychologically the dreamer is only
doing what Defoe did when he constructed the character of
Robinson Crusoe (introduced in the story as " I ") and of Man
Friday, and " set them going " in definite dramatic situations.
But, unfortunately, this analogy stops at the very point
which most challenges an explanation. For the dream includes
not only the presence, actions and conversations of the persons
concerned, but the whole series of psychological reactions
caused by the acts done and the things said. Now, some of
these are of such a kind that they cannot be accounted for in
the way supposed. One of them, for example, was my intense
surprise on learning that I was in China. But if my own
mind had invented the notion that I was in China, it would
not have been surprised on hearing another person say that I
was there. The dream-person was surprised and intensely so. The
surprise was not acted ; it was the real thing. Moreover, there was
the moment when he was waiting for the reply of his interlocutor,
wondering what it would be—a perfectly definite psychological
state. But such a state could not occur if the fact were that
I had the reply up my own sleeve all the time. I have
myself written a good many stories, and readily admit that
when a writer puts a remark in the mouth of one speaker he
doesn't always know what reply he will invent for the other
speaker. But he does know that he has to invent the reply,
whatever it may be ; and when it comes he recognizes it at
once as his own invention. Between such a case and that of
the dream the difference is quite distinct, and no analogy is
May, 1916. Dramatic Dreams. 181
possible. I grant also that in the highest artistic invention
the creator may become so completely identified with what he
is creating as to be ignorant that he is creating it, and to
feel some of the surprise at the result which he would have
felt had he been a mere spectator of the process. But here
the artist and the dreamer become one, and the process,
instead of explaining what takes place in dreams, is itself the
thing to be explained. And even in this case there is an
j,
important difference. When the work is done, the great artist
'
has plenty of evidence that his own mind did it. However
rapt " Beethoven may have been in composing the Ninth
\ Symphony, and however surprised he may have been at the
result, he was afterwards fully aware of his own responsibility
for its creation and under no danger of attributing it to Bach.
But this is the very point on which evidence is lacking in the
case of the dream—the very point in dispute. Here the
principal evidence is my surprise on learning that " I " was in
China, and this evidence, so far as it goes, indicates that the
information was a piece of genuine news. For the mind
cannot prepare surprises for itself any more than a man can
play chess with himself.
My point is, then, that however far we may be able to go
in explaining the situation of a dramatic dream by attributing
it to the mind of the dreamer, the explanation breaks down
utterly when we come to the psychological reactions, which
are just as much a part of the dream as is the situation from
which they issue.
By way of emphasizing the point, I will cite another instance
of a dramatic dream. In this case I dreamt that I was fight-
ing a duel with rapiers with a man whom I seemed, in my
dream, to know quite well, but who was and is a perfect
stranger to my waking life. The personality of my antagonist
and the surroundings were extraordinarily distinct, and are
clearly remembered now after an interval of four years. I
have never handled a rapier in my Hfe, but in my dream I
found myself skilled in its use. Nevertheless, I was full of
anxiety as to the issue, and terribly afraid that I might lose
my life. I offered at the outset to shake hands with my
opponent, and asked in what I had offended him. " You will
find that out in another world," he answered, " for I am going
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1916.
to send you to heaven." I remember being surprised at his
answer, for I expected he would say " hell." Then the duel
began ; and a more real " duel was never fought. My
antagonist's thrusts and parries were all his own ;
they baffled
me every moment. He changed his tactics incessantly, and I
was intensely on my guard, for I could see that his purpose
was to take me unawares. I felt all the tension of fighting
for my life, and made a desperate resolve that I would kill
my foe. After a time he seemed to weaken, and I made sure
that I should win. Then he suddenly sprang to one side and,
with a thrust I was too late to parry, he slit my cheek from
mouth to ear, and a moment afterwards plunged his rapier
through my body. I believe I awoke at the same moment.
I do not offer this as a wonderful " dream, but as a
sample of a large class of dreams which has never been
thoroughly studied. The suggestion I make is this : even
allowing—^what is very difficult to allow—that the mind of the
dreamer accounts for the part played in this dream by one
of the actors involved (myself), it certainly does not account
for the part played by the other. Nor does it account for the
psychological reactions on either side.
Compare with this the duel of Hamlet and Laertes as
imagined by Shakespeare. Here the mind of Shakespeare is
in control. To each of the imaged personalities he assigns his
part and combines them both to a foreseen result. They do
and say what the imagination of their creator makes them
do and say. And the creator knows perfectly well that he
is creating. In the dream the consciously creating mind is
entirely absent and consciousness transferred to the personalities
created.
The dream-personalities, then, have a genuine experience—at
least one of them (myself) has it, and the other (my antagonist)
appears to have it also. Each has a mind of his own which
determines his actions in relation to the similarly determined
actions of the other. One of them remembers his experience
and can report it afterwards. They appear to be independent
of any third mind which is pulling the strings.
Lastly, compare the dream-duel with any " actual " duel of
history. Are there any tests of the " reality " of the one
which are not equally satisfied by the other ?
Mat, 1916. Dramatic Dreams. 183
It may be said there are many. For example, my present
body bears no trace of the wounds received in the dream-duel.
But this objection holds only if we assume that my present
body and my dream body, which was pierced by a rapier, are
the same body. Why make that assumption ? The dream-body
(or its owner) certainly felt the wounds, and bore plain traces
of them.
Again, my antagonist cannot be found or called as a witness.
This assuredly leaves my evidence without his corroboration,
but does not affect its value as far as it goes. It is a diffi-
culty, but not a fatal one. For the fact that my antagonist
cannot be found is no proof that he never existed.
My own conclusion is that the dream-duel actually occurred
in the same sense that any duel, or any event, actually occurs.
I would not go the length of saying that it occurred to me :
but it occurred to somebody. Whatever difficulties may beset
this conclusion—and they are mainly difficulties of exposition
—
they are less, in my opinion, than those which attach to any
other hypothesis or explanation.
In saying this I do not overlook the circumstance that the
conclusion lacks corroborative evidence, whether of my " anta-
gonist " or anybody else. The strength of the conclusion lies
in the fact (as it seems to me) that the dream cannot be
interpreted in any other way.
The main difficulty ot exposition is, that the pronoun " I
"
has to be used throughout in a double function ;
first, to
indicate the person here and now narrating his dream, and
secondly, to indicate the dream-personality whose experiences
are narrated. A single pronoun being used for both, they
appear to be the same identical " I." But to assume their
identity is to beg the most important of the questions at
issue.
NOTICE OF CURRENT PERIODICALS.
Archives de Psychologie, No. 60, Dec. 1915, contains some
reflections by Prof. H. Delacroix on the interesting and important
case of the '
Modern Mystic '
studied by Prof. Flournoy in No. 58.
(Cf. this Journal for March.) While disclaiming the ambition of
discussing either mystical sensuahty or the mysticism of sensuality,
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May, 1916.
he concludes with a suggestion that the mystic ecstasy may be a
purified equivalent or sublimation of the profoundest life of the
instincts. The number contains also a detailed account by Prof.
Flournoy of the strange case of '
Eva C.,' alias Marthe Beraud,
in the shape of a review of Madame Bisson's Phenomhies de
materialisation (Paris, Alcan, 1914), one of the chief, and the
most accessible, of the books reviewed in Miss Verrall's '
History
of Marthe Beraud '
in Proceedings, Part LXIX. Prof. Flournoy
pleads for a suspense of judgment, and Prof. Claparede, who
appends a postscript to the review, states that he was, in January
1911, present at two sittings which presented striking spectacles,
though, as he could not experiment freely, he hesitates to come
to a conclusion. F C S S
1
No. CCCXXX.—Vol. XVII. June, 1916.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PACE
War Prophecies, - 1S5
WAR PROPHECIES.
By F. C. S. Schiller.
It was psychologically to be expected that the terrific strain
of the most terrible of wars should produce widespread emo-
tional disturbance in the populations subjected to it, and that
this, again, should lead to an apparent recrudescence of many
primitive beliefs and practices. For though to a cursory
inspection these might seem to have become extinct, they
remained deeply ingrained in human nature and had only been
driven underground ;
they would, therefore, be sure to be
brought to the surface again by any spiritual convulsion. So
it was just as natural that the allies should circulate stories of
supernatural interventions on behalf of their just cause as that
the Germans should revert to the magical practice of hammer-
ing nails into images. The alleged war-prophecies plainly
belong to the same stratum of beliefs and make their appeal
to the same condition of war-neurosis, aiid the ordinary sociolo-
gist would not hesitate to dismiss them as unworthy of
scientific attention. But our Society exists for the express
purpose of raking over the rubbish-heaps of orthodox science,
and must not shrink from the search for truth in unlikely
places. I need not apologize, therefore, for putting on record
the results of examining a number of prophecies about the war
which have been in circulation.
The material placed in my hands by the ofiice of the S.P.R.
is, unfortunately, far from complete. It is composed only of
matter published in this country and in France, and so throws
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1916.
no light on the doings of the interpreters of prophecy else-
where. It did not, moreover, enable me to trace all the
documents referred to, and to verify such assertions as seemed
verifiable. The researches necessary for this purpose would
have been arduous or impossible under present circumstances ;
still it might have been our duty to undertake them, if the
evidential quality of the material had been such as to con-
stitute even a jjrma facie probability that the results of such
research would be anything but negative. As a matter of fact,
it must be confessed that the evidence was so bad that it
did not seem to warrant further investigation. The bulk of
it is just irresponsible, unauthenticated, unverifiable, and often
anonymous, hearsay. Still one should not, even so, assert
dogmatically that the evidence, where it has not been possible
to test it, must be as bad as where it has been tested ;
only
it seems fair to say that the burden of proof rests on those
who believe it to be better. They may be required to give
definite verifiable references for the authenticity of the pro-
phecies alleged ; until this is done, their inherent improba-
bihty, their anonymity, and vagueness suffice to condemn them.
I will proceed to criticize some of the more verifiable cases.
(1) The best known perhaps is that about some arithmetical
coincidences in the life of William, the first German Emperor.
It has bhe merit of having certainly been in existence before
1914, though it was probably not invented until 1888. The
story goes that in 1849 Prince William of Prussia " was
wandering incognito in the Rhine Provinces attended only by
an aide-de-camp," ^ and was accosted by a gipsy (at Mainz),
who hailed him as 'Imperial Majesty.' "Not a little amused
—
for at that moment his chance of succeeding even to the
throne of Prussia seemed slight—the Prince asked " when he
would be emperor, whereupon the gipsy took the date of the
year and added to it the figures l+8+4-f-9, thus producing
1871 (right). A further inquiry as to how long the Prince
would reign was similarly answered by 1871 -fl -fS-f-T +1 = 1888
(right again), and finally the end of the German Empire was
1 I quote from Mr. Ralph Shirley's pamphlet on Prophecies and 07nens of
the Great War, 3rd ed. 1915 (p. 11 foil.), a work the uncritical character of
which is not redeemed by the fact that its author plainly shows how little
behef he himseU' has in the prophecies he retails.
June, 1916. War Prophecies. 1S7
piophesied for 1888 +1 +8^ 8*+8 = 1913. Now even in 1914 it
had to be explained that the Kaiser craftily put off the
beginning of the war in order to defeat (at any rate) the
prophetic gipsy : by 1916 even the most credulous must have
become sceptical about the correctness of the terminal date.
But this is by no means the sole flaw in the story. It is
not historically true that the future emperor had no expecta-
tion of becoming King of Prussia : in 1849 he was heir pre-
sumptive, and Ills brother's marriage had remained childless
for twenty-five years. Nor can the alleged prophecy have been
made to him in exile ; for though he retired from Berlin in
March 1848, he was back again in June, and took his seat in
the National Assembly, while in 1849 he was commanding the
army wliich put down the popular risings in South Germany.
i
Clearly, then, hvo out of the four dates in the story are
demonstrably wrong. If a prophecy was made to him in
exile, it must have been in 1848, not in 1849. But if we take
this year as our starting point, the dates for the establishment
of the German Empire and its first emperor's death go wi'oiig.
1848 +1+8 +4+8 = 1869, and 1869 +1+8+6+9 = 1893. The
interpreters of prophecy may explain this by saving that the
Franco-German War should have come in 1869, and that the
emperor should have lived to be 96 ;
indeed, they had better
say this, for if they persevere they will be rewarded by a final
gleam of success. For 1893+1+8+9+3 = 1914, which is (or
may be) right. But with this mode of calculation again two
(at least) of the four dates are wrong.
(2) A more antique, and even more unfortunate, appeal to
prophecy is presented by the Pro])hecy of Lehnin, which has
now been translated into English for the first time, with notes,
by '
Sepharial,' and is published as a sixpenny pamphlet
by W. Foul-sham & Co. (an ominous name !). This prophecy
"prefiguring the rise and fall of the Prussian despotism of
Germany," as the title-page avers, is ascribed to a certain
Arminius, Prior of the monastery of Lehnin in Brandenburg
about 1240, and so is very much of a '
chestnut.' It is
composed of a hundred (shockingly bad) Latin verses, and
professes to foretell the fortmies of Brandenbiu-g, the rise of
the Hohenzollerns, their conversion to the Lutheran heresy, and
^ Cf. Encyc. Brit. s.r.
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, loic.
their downfall, in a thoroughly monkish spirit. It is predicted
that with the eleventh of these heretical rulers the dynasty
will end, Germany will recover her peace, prosperity and
king,'^ and that the monastery of Lehnin will be restored to
its pristine splendour. In view of this conclusion it would
seem to demand some audacity to interpret the prophecy as
heralding the overthrow of Germany. However, neither
'
Sepharial '
nor Mr. Shirley are abashed. They also boldly
assert the authenticity of the prophecy's alleged date, although
it appears to be a matter of common knowledge among the
learned that it was never printed before 1723, and cannot be
traced back beyond 1693. Brockhaus's Encyclopedia says curtly
that its authenticity has been convincingly disproved, that it was
probably concocted by Canon Andreas Fromm about 1684, and
that since that date all its '
prophecies '
have gone very wide
of the mark.
The most insuperable objection to the claims of this prophecy
also appears to be arithmetical. As before, the interpreters
come to grief over a simple sum in addition. For the fact is
that the eleventh Protestant Hohenzollern has come and gone
some time ago : his name was Frederick William III., and he
died in 1840 ! It follows that William II. cannot be the
eleventh Protestant Hohenzollern to rule over Brandenburg.
He is, in fact, the fifteenth. This unfortunate discrepancy has
not altogether escaped Mr. Shirley (I.e. p. 57), who considers
it a " curiously exact " fulfilment of prophecy that the Catho-
lics should have " had their disabilities removed during the
reign of Frederick IV., who, though the twelfth in succession,
represents the eleventh generation, Joachim II. succeeding his
brother Joachim I." All these assertions are incorrect, and
even if they were not, would not help Mr. Shirley. For on
his own showing Frederick William IV. was the twelfth Hohen-
zollern. How, then, can William II. be the eleventh and be
identified with his own great-grandfather, Frederick William III.?
Mr. Shirley's interpretation of the final catastrophe is no
less curious. The prophecy rujis
" Tandem sceptra gerit qui stemmatis ultimus erit (sic !)
Israel infandum scelus audet morte piandum."
' Not tint/s, as in '
Sepharial's '
translation.
June, 1916. War PropJiecies. 189
This should mean that the last Hohenzollern will be mur-
dered by a Jew. But Mr. Shirley interprets " presumably
from the point of view of the Prior of Lehnin '
Israel '
is a
name adopted for the Christian community in Brandenburg !
(3) An article by Prof. William Gregory in BlacJavood's
Magazine for May 1850 records a number of popular
prophecies which he found current in the Lower Rhine coimtry,
and which seemed to him to agree in presaging a great war
mth a terrific final battle of the Birch-Tree, near Werl, in
Westphalia. These legends have now apparently wandered
up the Rhine and yielded the material which has been
vamped up into what Mr. Shirley reports as " the Prophecy
of Mayence,"' so called after an (imaginary) convent of St.
Hildegard near this city, {I.e. pp. 13-15) and dates at 1854.
He gives away the French origin of its present form by leaving
the word for birch-tree untranslated, as a French place-name
in the middle of Germany. There are, of course, other differ-
ences also. In Prof. Gregory's material the war was conceived
as being between the north and the east (Russia, Prussia)
against the south and the west (Austria, France) which
accorded well enough with the circumstances of 1849-50 ; in
the '
prophecy '
of Mayence the political combinations have
been brought up to date. Both versions agree in having a
strong CathoHc bias.
M. de Vesme, the editor of the Annales des Sciences Psij-
chiqiies, who has subjected War Prophecies to some excellent
criticism and very damaging research in his issues for Oct.
1915 and Feb. 1916, throws some light on these discrepancies.
It appears that in 1909 {i.e. during the first Austro-Ser\'ian
crisis), the Message? d' Alsace Lorraine printed a tale by an
ex-organist, M. Jecker (now dead) who professed to have read
this prophecy in 1866 in an old book (without a title-page)
which he found in the house of a village priest (whose heirs
destroyed his Hterary remains). He learnt it by heart (!) and
told it to 500 persons between the years 1866 and 1870,
not one of whom is now producible. In 1912, after the
Agadir crisis and the death of M. Jecker, the Messager pub-
lished some additions, which are chiefly interesting as predicting
that three wars would be waged to restore the Bourbon
monarchy in France. In 1914 another and extensively faked
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1916.
version was issued. In this the clerical and Legitimist passages
were cut out, including the picturesque detail that the '
young
prince of the old blood of the Caps '
(Capets) should mount
his white horse from the left side because his right leg was
lame. The number of the Allies was increased from four
(? France, Russia, England, Serbia) to seven, and the ending
was gi-eatly altered, the promised restoration of the Pope's
Temporal Power having become extremely mal a propos.
It is evident that every editor who publishes a '
prophecy
'
considers it his duty to bring his mateiial up to date.
(4) A French Catholic origin may similarly be ascribed to
the prophecy of '
Brother John '
which appeared in the Paris
Figaro, and is wholly unauthenticated.^ The same bias runs
through the Almanacks of Mme de Thebes, to which we may
next turn. Mme de Thebes is a professional prophetess of
Parisian fame who combines clairvoyance with astrological
skill, and has a reputation which impresses the editor of the
Occfdt Review. He thinks that " her predictions in the issues
for 1912 and 1913 were not a little remarkable." He has,
however, finally to admit that " the Parisian seeress seems to
have anticipated that the struggle would begin a year before
it actually took place " (Prophecies and Omens, p. 41).
Now the facts about '
Mme de Thebes '
(as gathered from an
examination of her Almanacks for 1912, 1914 and 1915) appear
to be these. Like all '
prophets ' she is fond of predicting
wars and catastrophes, and after the 1911 crisis it would have
been remarkable if she had refrained from doing so, especially
as political circles in Paris, with which she appears to be more
or less in touch (probably on their feminine side), seem to
have been far more conscious of the critical condition of
European peace than those in London. Her prophecies, however,
are mostly couched in vague general terms, and she often '
hedges.'
Moreover, the claims to a '
fulfilment '
of her previous pre-
dictions which she annually makes are frequently very 'thin.'
Mr. Shirley's comment on its 'provenance is " Monsieur Peladan states
tliat the Latin book " (in which his father is said to have found it) " is
lost and that his translation only exists in the handwritmg of a clerk who
copied it. He has not even produced this somewhat inadequate evidence
in confirmation of his bona fides " (I.e. p. 24). But it was M. de Vesme who
interviewed M. Peladan, and forced him to own that " unfortunately I possess
no proof of the authenticity of this document." Verb. Sap.
June, 1916. War Prophecies. 191
She also makes a considerable uumber of egregious blunders.
For example, both in the 1911 and 1912 issues she predicted
the outbreak of the Great War in 1913 (p. 28 and p. 25),
and the downfall of Germany and the disappearance of her
emperor (p. 36 and pp. 37, 44). In the 1912 issue she predicts
also an earthquake and a scarcity of milk in France (pp. 25-6),
an attack by Italy on France (p. 36), the success of the
Duchess of Hohenberg's ^ plans (p. 37), a civil war in Belgium
(predicted also in 1909), which might well set Europe ablaze,
a multitude of violent deaths and a possible collapse of mon-
archy in England, and revolutions in Japan. The 1914 issue
contains i-)iter alia the following obvious failures : the French
army on the frontiers by the 20th March, 1914, the discovery
of great mineral wealth in Western France and its trans-
formation into an industrial district (p. 53), again a war with
Italy (p. 54), the extinction of the Belgian monarchy and the
subjection of Belgium (p. 58), external and internal war in
England, with the greatest danger of a complete overthrow
(p. 59). On the other hand, the prediction of a new Pope
(p. 54) would be a palpable hit, if it had not been known
how precarious the health of Pius X. had been getting. The
issue for 1915 predicts a (victorious) end to the war by June
1915 (p. 37), a revolution in Germany and the Kaiser's dis-
appearance (p. 53), the death of the '
sinister old man,' the
Emperor of Austria (a very probable prediction, seeing how
often the newspapers have prepared the public mind for it !)
(p. 54), the destruction of Turkey (p. 65), and an apology to
Belgium for having suspected the court and the Flemings of
siding wdth Germany. There are no clear successes in this
issue at all ; for it was obvious that " vaHant Servia is not
at an end of its warlike destiny " and probable enough that
Bulgaria would be involved (side not stated).
These specimens will probably suffice to show what clair-
voyance and astrology can do in the way of prediction. A
glance at the efforts of astrology piue, simple and unaided
may fitly conclude our study. For only an utterly hard-
hearted Psychical Eesearcher will refrain from shedding a
sympathetic tear over the downfall of poor ' Old Moore.'
^ The consort of the Archduke Francis Ferdinand, who was murdered with
him at Serajevo.
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1916.
That this worthy's Almanack for 1914 should have failed to
read the doom of European civilization in the stars may be
excused perhaps by human frailty and the feebleness of man's
vision ; but one would have expected him to make ample
amends at any rate in 1915, and to give quite as authentic
an account of it as the leading newspapers. To our astonish-
ment, however, we find nothing at all that can be interpreted
as a recognition by the astral powers of the troubles of the
terrestrial—merely conventional remarks that at such and such
a time " the safety of the Tsar will give grave reason for
anxiety to his best friends " in the police ! It is rumoured
that the explanation is simple. Old Moore's " genuine Foul-
sham edition " for 1915 had gone to press before the end of
July 1914 ! It will not do for a prophet, however, to be
more than a year behind the times. So in 1916 Old Moore
does discover the war. In fact he is full of it, full also of
disasters, victories, defeats, strikes and revolutions, all illus-
trated with the most lurid woodcuts. In the end he leaves
the war going strong on the 31st of December. I grieve to
say '
Old Moore ' is rather a pessimist, who ought to be
suppressed for prejudicing recruiting. But what can one
expect for one penny ? Let those who desire to be cheered,
and are willing to spend sixpence on the lore of the stars,
betake themselves to Zadkiel's Almanack for 1916, and believe
(if they can) that the war will be brought to a victorious
conclusion in March.
In view of all this material, it certainly does not become
easier to believe that the human race is growing in enhghten-
ment and increasing in critical mtelligence. We still have no
reply to traffickers in omens and dealers in prophecy better
than that which Homer of old put into the mouth of Hector
—
ef? o/'wi'o? upiaTOi a/j-vverrQaL Tvep). TruTptjg.^
1 Iliad, 12. 143. " One omen is best, to defend one's fatherland."
No. CCCXXXI.-VoL. XVII. ; July, 1916.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Obituary Notice,
New Members and Associates,
-
Meeting of tiie Council,
Private Meeting,
Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance, . - - -
Ifs
An Authentic Prophecy?
Dreams and Psychology, -''^
Case,
f
^
Notes on Current Periodicals, ----- - 207
The Rooms of tlie Society at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., will
be closed during August and September, re-opening on Monday,
October 2nd.
The next niunber of the Journal will be issued in October.
OBITUARY.
Mrs. a. W. Verrall.
We regret to have to announce the death on July 2nd
at her residence in Cambridge of Mrs. A. W. Verrall
in her fifty-ninth year, after several months of illness.
She joined the Society for Psychical Research in
January 1889, and had been a member of the Council
since 1901. She was one of the most active workers
in the Society, and while herself an automatist, was
a keen, critical and indefatigable investigator to
whom much of the progress made in recent years
is due. A fuller notice of her life and of her work
in Psychical Research will be published in the next
number of the Proceedings.
i
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1916.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are prvtUed in Black Type.
Na7nes of Associates are printed in Small CAPriALS.
Eckstein, Mrs., 18 Park Lane, London, W.
Patton, Mrs., Stoke Court, near Taunton.
Darbyshire, Rev. H. S., St. Margaret's Vicarage, Methley, Leeds.
Hagger, Rev. J. 0., The Manse, Waterfoot, Manchester.
Rawlinson, Rev. G. C, 20 Holbein House, London, S.W.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 141st Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, Ijondon, W., on Friday, June 23rd, 1916, at 3.15 p.m. ;
Mr. H. Arthur Smith in the chair. There were also present
:
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, Rev. M. A. Bay-
field, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ;
also, Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Two new Members and three new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for April and May, 1916, were
presented and taken as read.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
The 54:th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, June 23rd, 1916, at 4 p.m. ;
Sir William Barrett in the chair.
Sir Oliver Lodge read a paper on " Recent Evidence
about Prevision and Survival," which will be published in
the next Part of the Proceedings. This Part will, it is hoped,
be ready for circulation in October.
July, 1916. Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance. 195
PSYCHOLOGY OF MRS. PIPER'S TRANCE.
By F. C. Constable.
In considering this subject Jlrs. Sidgwick's point of view
is so neutral, and she keeps so remarkably free from all pre-
judice arising from the personal equation, that her opinion
must have great weight. The following paragraph appears
to me to express a sound theory, so perhaps I may be for-
given for paraphrazing it in some measure :
" Of course, communication mth the dead, when it occurs,
must imply a real commimicator in the background, but
the point is that this does not necessitate either the dramatic
communicator or the control being other than phases or
elements of Rlrs. Piper, nor does it exclude the possibility
that the dramatic communicator is a fiction, or a dream,
or a hallucination of the control, each of which things it
appears sometimes to be. That it is with phases or elements
—centres of consciousness—of Mrs. Piper, and not with entities
independent of her, that the sitter is in direct communication,
seems to me for the reasons given to be the hypothesis which
best fits the facts so far as we know them : that under which
they most readily fall into an intelhgible order and are most
easily interpreted. And it is also a hypothesis against which
no valid arguments have, so far as I have seen, been
adduced." (p. 320.)
I agree fully with what is above stated. Indeed, I would
go further, —I suggest that where there is a real communica-
tion from the dead, the real communicator must always find
his greatest stumbling-block to communication in the always
present fact of the dramatic communicator.
Now we are all self-conscious subjects, embodied or un-
embodied. Self-consciousness is a thing in itself, for us.
The common bond of union between us is in Consciousness,
and from this bond there is constant, timeless, communion.
But communication infers mental operation in time.
The evidence for telepathy between the living is found in
thought-transference ; there is sympathy or rapport between
the mental operations of the agent and percipient. (Note.
It is shown in '
Personality and Telepathy '
that there is
no direct transference of ideas ; the direct bond is in com-
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1916.
munion, there is emergence of like or associated ideas.) But
in telepathy between the living and the dead this cannot
be. Imagination—as Kant says, deep buried in the soul
of man—still exists for the dead, but the inhibition of imagin-
ation by the brain for the production of thought is impossible
for the dead : the dead have no brains, as instruments for
thought. There are but the brains of the living for use,
and so, in any particular case, the brain of the living must
be used by the dead for communication with the living.
Mark the distinction made between communion (which
transcends ideas) and communication.
Mrs. Piper falls into hypnosis under the impression that
another personality is to take possession of her organism.
She does not fall into that deep state where there is not
only full inhibition of all external sensuous effects, but full
inhibition of personal mental operation. (Note. But a few
continuous records of communication from George Pelham
suggest this state.) There is still, for her, some mental
operation, and she is still open, in some measure, to external
sensuous effects.
Mentally, she is affected by her impression that the person-
ahty which has been brought to her attention is to take
possession of her organism ;
she, desiring such possession,
naturally dramatizes this personality. I write '
naturally
'
because human experience informs us of what takes place.
We all of us, embodied, live in dramatization. I am I
;
I offer to the world but a dramatized self ; each one of us
knows he is not that self published to the world. If you
who read try to worry out what you yourself are you will
find you exist in dreams : you exist in your own dreams,
which have little or nothing to do with yourself as a mere
actor manifest on the world's stage. The pleasures of love
exist largely in self-revelation to another—the one enjoys
admitting another behind the scenes, where he or she is
dressing up for appearance before the footlights.
If we say that the communicator suggested to and desired
by Mrs. Piper is—to take one instance—Julius Caesar, we
encounter no difficulty in explanation of what takes place.
Mrs. Piper dramatizes Julius Caesar. No matter whether
the dramatization be successful or not the mental process
July, 1916. Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance. 197
is akin to that of Shakespeare dramatizing Hamlet, or Cer-
vantes Don Quixote. We have nothing before us but a
dramatized communicator.
It is when a dramatic communicator like George Pelham
comes on the scene that our difl&culties in explanation begin.
That George Pelham is dramatized as a communicator is,
I think, clear from the fact that, ordinarily, when there
is manifest consecutive mental operation on Mrs. Piper's
part as shown by her speech or writing, then G. P. is
dramatized. But, sometimes, the dramatic communicator
G. P. appears to give us communications not from the
actor dressed up by Mrs. Piper but from himself. It is
true that when he gives these communications he gives them
through himself as an actor, as dressed up, but the communica-
tions would appear to be from himself undramatized. We
have some analogy from Shakespeare : Thackeray gives us
a very clear character of Shakespeare himself, though we
know little or nothing of Shakespeare's hfe, apart from his
characterizations of philosophers, warriors, cowards, clowns,
and women. Sterne, in the pulpit, is said to have once
revealed himself by taking off his periwig and throwing it in
the face of the congregation.
Now if G. P. could, without impediment, use Mrs. Piper's
brain, he could himself communicate directly with us. But
he does not do this : the information we get from him is
usually 'scrappy and imperfect.' (p. 320.)
If Mrs. Sidgwick's theory be sound, this scrappiness and
imperfection are accounted for. For, by that theory, G. P.
finds impediment to direct communication not only from
Mrs. Piper's partial personal mental activity and partial open-
ness to external sensuous affections, but from her natural
dramatization of G. P. as a communicator. G. P. has to
'
seize ' moments of blankness on Mrs. Piper's part in mental
activity and openness to sensuous affections, for direct com-
munication. The very scrappiness and imperfections of
direct information from G. P. are what, by the theory, we
should expect—what we should expect, that is, if G. P. be
a real communicator.
But I must be a little critical. The position of those of
us who are outsiders is to be pitied. The best evidence
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1916.
for direct communication is denied us. For instance, Mrs.
Sidgwick refers to a '
dramatic incident.' On turning to
the account of this dramatic incident (Vol. XIII., p. 321),
we find that it consists of statements of private matters
made privately to a Mr. Howard by G. P., through Mrs.
Piper, which fully convinced Mr. Howard that G. P. himself
had been communicating with him. But neither we—nor
Hodgson himself—are told what was communicated. The
above is not the only instance existing. I think we must
not quarrel with this concealment of private matters, for
the concealment is on its face natural and reasonable. Even
personally I admit myself particeps criminis. For the strongest
instance I have ever had of communication with the dead
gave me information that no one else living will ever be made
aware of. But all such instances do not constitute evidence
of any hind, unless we fall back, unreasonably, on the accept-
ance of authority for belief and confuse belief with evidence.
Again, when direct information gets through from a real
communicator, I think it should, naturally, be marked as
different in some way from information beginning and ending
with the dramatized communicator ; how marked it is difficult
to define. But as to this I may use analogy. Like other
human beings I dream, and in the twenty-five thousand days
and nights of my passing life have probably dreamt, by day
and night, millions of dreams. All have past from immediate
memory : all but three. These three exist always present to me
in time—three instances of communion with the dead, two of them
followed by the emergence of definite ideas. The three were
markedly different in impression from their millions of fellows.
Possibly there is some evidence of this difference in the
Piper records. There are a few abnormal and excited
" rushes '
at her waking stages which appear to give direct
communication. And, where the communication is direct
and continuous, the record, perhaps, appears marked by an
absence of personal mental activity on Mrs. Piper's part.
All communications revealing what personal existence is
after disembodiment must, I think, be referred to as begin-
ning and ending with dramatized communicators.
Thought being correlated to movement of the material
brain exists in inhibition of imagination, and we can imagine
July, 1916. Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance. 199
that the disembodied may be able to use the brains of the
embodied for the inhibition of their imagination. But we
cannot imagine any inhibition of imagination opening to us
the wonders of free imagination. They may be able to come
to us on our limited plane, but we can rise to them on
their relatively limitless plane only in extasy, where we are
free from the limits of thoughts and ideas. The child playing
with its earthly toys is apt to picture for itself a future
life where toys are innumerable and unbreakable.
AN AUTHENTIC PROPHECY?
Since writing the criticism of War Prophecies in the June
Journal, I have had my attention called to a Serbian prophecy
which has some pretensions to authenticity, and certainly has
several points of interest. Not only is it claimed that it has
been extensively fulfilled already, but some of its fulfilment is
demonstrably posterior to the prediction ; also it still concerns
the future. Moreover, it was made the subject of a contem-
poraneous official record, and has had considerable pohtical
influence. The story as gathered from two versions in M. Chedo-
mille Mijatovich's A Royal Tragedy, published in London in
1906, and from a private paper contributed by him to the records
of the S.P.R. in July, 1903, and if one ignores minor dis-
crepancies, runs as follows :
On the 29th (or 28th) of May, 1868, a peasant named Mata,
from the neighbouring village of Kremna, began to cry aloud
in the principal street of Ujitza, a town in western Serbia, that
the then Prince of Serbia, Michael Obrenovich, was being horribly
murdered and '
slashed with yatagans.' He was arrested by the
pohce as causing public alarm, but in the evening a telegram
arrived announcing the correctness of his vision. The Prefect
of Ujitza then interrogated Mata further, and found that he
had no connexion with the assassins, but had had other visions
about the future of Serbia, and put his predictions on record.
The document containing them was sent to Belgrade and kept
in the Secret Archives, but M. Mijatovich, though he professes
to have watched the fulfilment of its predictions from 1875,
when he first heard of it, and was told in 1880 by Milan G.
Milityevich that he had a copy, and in 1889 by Nicola Christich,
then Prime Minister, that he had read the original document,
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1916.
does not himself claim ever to have seen it. Anyhow, the
prophecies of Mata are said to have predicted the events of
the reigns of Milan and Alexander with great exactitude, including
the latter's murder and the extinction of the Obrenovich line.
The evidential value of these reports it will be possible to judge
only when the authentic text of the '
protocol ' is pubhshed
;
but this is not likely to happen, as the Serbians probably destroyed
all their secret archives before evacuating Belgrade. We are
only concerned evidentially, therefore, with those parts of the
story which referred to events subsequent to 1903.
These predict (1) the succession of the Karageorgeviches, whose
rule, however, is to be short, '
2 or 3 years,' '
about 3 years,'
'
not for long,' in the various versions given by M. Mijatovich
;
(2) a foreign conquest leading to great suffering among the people,,
so that they will envy the dead in the churchyards. This will
last '
a few '
years or '
many.' (3) Then there will arise a saviour
among the people who will deliver them from their oppressors
and unite all Serbians happily in one state. (4) This liberator
is to be in some sense a descendant of the Obrenoviches, '
as
though an oak tree, after being cut down, should suddenly send
up a shoot from its roots at some distance from the original tree.'
Now it is evident that so far only the second of these pre-
dictions can be said to have been fulfilled, and that not very
remarkably. For in 1868 the position of Serbia was precarious
enough to make a foreign conquest seem quite a possible eventua-
lity. However, Mata would be more likely to think of the Turks
than of the Austrians and Bulgarians.
The first point cannot be said to have come true literally^
for the Karageorgevich rule would have lasted a dozen years,
even if it were not destined to be restored. The third point
merely expresses commonplaces of patriotic aspiration everywhere.
The fourth point is certainly remarkably definite, and its
fulfilment would go far to place Mata's clairvoyance beyond
cavil. At the same time, it is highly improbable, though not
wholly impossible. For although the house of Obrenovich is
apparently extinct, it is understood that through the female line
its claims have passed to a grandson of King Nicholas of Monte-
negro, while the son of King Milan and Mme. Artemise Christich
is still alive. While therefore its further fulfilment seems im-
probable, it is perhaps permissible to keep an eye on the Black
Prophecy of Mata of Kremna. '
F. C. S. Schiller.
Jolt, 1916. Dreams and Psychology. 201
DREAMS AND PSYCHOLOGY.
The opinions expressed in Dr. Jacks's charming little paper in
the May Journal on Dramatic Dreams so entirely accord with
beliefs I have cherished (with very little social encouragement)
for very many years, that I cannot refrain from seconding his
appeal on behalf of the dream life, which is so considerable a
portion of the totality of human experience. In particular, I
would echo his complaint about the neglect of dreams by pro-
fessional psychologists. Here we have hundreds, even thousands,
of highly selected, trained and endowed men who have been
spending their whole time on researches which are only very
remotely connected with the problems of concrete minds, and
have so far been singularly barren of applications, and they
leave utterly unrecorded, uninvestigated and untouched insistent
phenomena which could easily be experimented with and about
which almost nothing is definitely known ! We are all dreamers,
and yet we have never tried to conquer this region of experience,
to discover the best methods of dreaming and of regulating its
apparent madness. There ought surely to be a Society for the serious
and scientific study of dreams, which would co-operate with the S.P.R.
The present is not, however, an auspicious time for inaugurating
such a Society ; so I will content myself with suggesting to Dr.
Jacks that he ought to change the nomenclature he has used
for the several characters that enter into the problem of the
dream. He distinguishes, quite rightly, between the dream-
personahty which has the experience and the '
I '
which narrates
the dream when awake. But he calls the latter '
the dreamer,'
and this is surely wrong. The '
dreamer '
should be the person-
age who actually has the dream, and not he who subsequently
recalls it, often imperfectly, and reflects upon it. Moreover,
Dr. Jacks appears to think (p. 183) that the chief problem about
the dream is to explain the relations of these two personahties.
But this is surely relatively easy. That the 'dreamer' is a 'second-
ary personality '
of the waking '
self '
is attested both by the
differences and by the discontinuities of memory between them,
coupled with the fact that the waldng self can '
appropriate
'
the dream-experience. The source of the dream, however, is a
real mystery. Dr. Jacks well shows that neither the dreamer
nor the waking self can claim to create the dream and to con-
struct its plot. The obvious inference is that there exists a
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1916.
third party, whom I have called the maker of the dream, and
(tentatively) identified with the '
Sally '
of the Beauchamp Case.
My terminological proposal, therefore, put forward most recently
in the review of Dr. Morton Prince's Unconscious (in Proceed-
ings, Pt. LXX. pp. 50-1-6), 1 is to distinguish, —(1) the normal waking
self, who is not identical with the dreamer though he may be
affected by '
dreams '
he remembers, or even {teste Freud) forgets
;
(2) the dreamer, for whom the dream is real and usually forms
the real world ; (3) the maker of dreams, who victimizes the
dreamer. I trust that Dr. Jacks will assent to this classification,
and did not mean to play upon me the common philosophic
trick which consists in taking a technical term which another
philosopher is labouring to fix, and ruining it by promptly using
it in a second sense liable to be confused with the first. For
to agree upon common terms for what we wish to investigate
is the first step towards a solution of the problem of dreams.
F. C. S. Schiller.
NOTE BY DR. JACKS.
I HAVE read Dr. Schiller's note and appreciate his point. In
reply I have to say that I find it extremely difficult to choose
a nomenclature, or indeed any form of expression, which does
not beg the question involved in the identification of the dream-
personalities. I know of no problem in philosophy in which
it is at once so vitally essential and yet so difficult to free theory
from the misleading of language. Let me try to be more explicit.
Smith dreams he is fighting a duel. Here, I think, four per-
sonalities are distinguished in ordinary speech. (1) Smithy, who
remembers and narrates the dream, (2) Smitha, asleep and dream-
ing, (3) Smiths ,
fighting the dream-duel, (4) Smith's antagonist
—
to whom, oddly enough, corresponding personalities to (1), (2),
(3) do not appear to be attached.
Dr. Schiller contends that I err in calling Smithy the '
dreamer,'
and I admit the justice of his correction. But when he insists
that Smithg (or is it Smithg ?) is the dreamer I fail to follow
him. The fact is exhausted when you say Smithj fought the
duel which is remembered by Smith ; when you expand this and
say Smithg dreamed that he fought the duel you go beyond the
fact and commit yourself to a theory ;
indeed, you beg the
question. For the question to my mind is precisely this—was
1 Cf. also Humanism, 2ik1 ed., pp. 266-7.
July, 1916. Note by Dr. Jacks. 203
the duel a real duel (in the sense that any historical duel is
real) or was it an unreal event, an event that never happened,
an event concocted or made up by a peculiar mental process
which goes on when the body is asleep ?
It is almost impossible to use ordinary language which does
not adopt the second of these alternatives, thereby clouding the
whole issue with a foregone conclusion. We say '
Smith dreamed
that he was fighting a duel,' and this implies at once that Smith
performed a mental process—his mind did something or other
—
of which the duel was the product. But what evidence have
we that Smith's mind did {i.e. concocted) anything at all ? The
evidence, so far as it goes, simply records that a duel was fought
by two men, neither of whom appears to have been Smith, and
that Smith when he was awake could narrate the experience of
one of them. How Smith got access to that experience as
though it had been his own is precisely what we do not
know. To say that Smith dreamed the experience is not to
solve the problem but to restate it There it seems to me that
Dr. Schiller, like myself in the instance for which he properly
corrects me, goes beyond the evidence by introducing the 'dreamer.'
To solve the mystery it may be necessary to get rid of this
personality altogether. I do not pin myself to this solution but
I do say that if the inquiry is dominated from the outset by
the conception of a '
dreamer '
and a special process of mental
concoction called '
dreaming '
we are going beyond the facts.
What if there is no such process at all, and no such person ?
Psychology has already got rid of a good many fictitious
*
mental processes.' What if '
dreaming '
is one more of the
same class ?
Among the various personalities concerned in the dream under
discussion I may say that the one about which I am most curious
is (4)—the antagonist. He was a very lively gentleman whom
I would recognize among a thousand if I were to meet him
to-morrow. Who, in heaven's name, was he ? Dr. Schiller's
theory leaves him wholly unidentified. And what an interesting
hght would be thrown on the matter if it should turn out
that at the very time that '
I '
dreamed '
I '
was fighting
'
him,' somebody else dreamed that '
he '
was fighting '
me.'
When the matter comes to be fully investigated it may be
found that in dreams also there are such things as cross-
correspondences.
204 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1916.
CASE.
L. 1204. Coincidental Hallucination.
The following case of a coincidental hallucination was first
brought to our notice by a paragraph in the daily press on
June 6, 1916, in which it was stated that :
The sister of Seaman George William Malpress, of Peterborough,
one of the men who went down with the '
Queen Mary,' had a
realistic dream last Wednesday [the day the '
Queen Mary ' was
lost]. She was lying ill in bed when she thought that her brother
came to her bedside, and although she spoke to him repeatedly
he would not answer. He appeared quite well and happy.
Subsequently, in reply to enquiries, we received the following
account from the percipient, Mrs. Baxter :
56 New Ed., Peterboro', June 19, 1916.
... in reference to my dream—as it was published in the
papers, but it was not a dream, it was a vision. I was very ill
at the time. It was the afternoon of the day of the battle that
I saw my brother. I was taken worse and thought I was going
to die. I was with my brother on his ship and he was so happy
and singing, and then it changed and he was at home on leave.
I thought I repeatedly spoke to him each time but he did not
speak to me. I knew I was ill, and thought he would not
speak because I was disfigured. I asked my mother if he had
gone back and she said he had not been home. I said I knew
he had, it seemed so real. 1 was very much upset because he
would not speak to me. 1 did not hear of the sinking of the
'
Queen Mary '
until a week after, as 1 was too ill for my mother
to tell me. . . . It would be just about the time when the ship
went down that I saw my brother, as it was late in the afternoon
on Wednesday, May 31.
F. Baxter.
On June 29, 1916, the Secretary went to Peterborough and
called upon Mrs. Baxter and her mother, Mrs. Malpress, who
kindly answered all the questions she put to them. Their
evidence, as noted and summarised by the Secretary at the
time, and confirmed by their signatures, was as follows :
On May 31 Mrs. Baxter was suffering from erysipelas, and had
been ill from the previous Friday. About 5 o'clock in the after-
July, 1916. Case. 205
noon she " felt something snap inside her, and part of herself
seemed to have gone out of her ; she thought she was dying."
Then she seemed to be on a ship, or very near it ; she could
see the sailors moving about, and heard them singing ;
they were
very happy. She spoke to her brother on the ship ; he wouldn't
answer. She called for a scarf he had given her, so that she
could hide her face, as she was disfigured. Then the scene
changed, she was at home, her brother was at home, she spoke
to him, but he wouldn't answer. She cried, thinking it was
because she was disfigured. The vision went. She was still very
upset because he wouldn't speak to her. She asked her mother
if her brother had gone back.
She had never had a vision, or a dream, of this kind before.
(Signed) FLORENCE Ethel Baxter.
June 29, 1916.
Mrs. Malpress said that her daughter had been " lightheaded
on and off" during her illness, but that at the time of the
vision she seemed " listless and blank." She continued :
When she had this kind of blank feeling come over her, I went
down to find some one to fetch the doctor as I thought she was
dying. When I went up again she was crying, and seemed very
upset. I asked her what was the matter. She said Will had
been to see her, and he wouldn't speak to her. The following
morning I said, " How did Will look ?
" " Just as usual," she
said ;
" I thought he was here home on leave. He was in his
uniform, and very bright and happy."
(Signed) Hannah Malpress.
June 29, 1916.
The news of the Naval Battle, including the announcement
of the loss of H.M.S. '
Queen Mary,' was published on Saturday
morning, June 3, 1916. In the casualty list, which appeared
a few days later (our reference is the Daily Telegraph, June 8)
the name of G. W. Malpress, A.B., was included in the crew
of the '
Queen Mary.'
It is stated in Admiral Sir John Jellicoe's despatch on the
battle, published in the press, July 7, 1916, that the action
began at 3.48 p.m. (Greenwich mean time) on May 31 ; and
in the various reports by observers, that the '
Queen Mary '
sank soon afterwards. In an article in the Daih/ Telegraph on
206 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, i&ie
June 6, Mr. Hurd, indicating approximately the course which
the battle took, says :
Quite early in the action the '
Queen Mary,' by an unfortunate
mischance, or good German gunnery, was hit, and sank in a few
minutes. ... It should be emphasised that this misfortune
occurred almost immediately after the action opened.
Thus, it will be observed that the coincidence in time
between the hallucination, which occurred about 5 p.m.,
summer time, and the death of Seaman Gr. W. Malpress,
which occurred soon after 4.48, summer time, was very close.
It is chiefly owing to this coincidence in time that we print
the case, contrary to our practice of excluding hallucinations
occurring during illness where delirium is present. The evidence
is further strengthened by the following considerations: (1) the
hallucination seems to have been the only one which assumed
definite form during the illness ; (2) it was certainly the only
one described by the percipient during this time ; and (3) it
was unique in her experience.
These points will be apparent from the evidence on the
medical aspect of the case, kindly contributed, in answer to
our enquiries, by Dr. H. Latham, of Peterborough, who was
attending the percipient. The questions which were put to him
are given below in square brackets :
^ July 3, 1916.
[How long was the percipient delirious, and was the delirium
intermittent ?]
From Monday night. May 29, until the end of the week. Yes ;
she appeared to ramble and say " queer things " (the mother's
report to me) only at night. In the morning or afternoon when
I saw her she seemed clear in her mind.
[Was this particular hallucination described to you before the
news of the Naval Battle on May 31 was known to the public 1]
I cannot lix the day, but I can say positively that I was told
of it, both by Mrs. Malpress and Mrs. Baxter, long before the
latter had any information of the Naval Battle or the death of
young Malpress. Mrs. Baxter did not know anything about the
Naval Battle, etc., until a full week after it had occurred, as I
gave strict orders that she was not to be told. About a week
after the Battle, say Wednesday, June 7, she picked up a paper
JOLY, 1916. Case. 207
within her reach and saw the list of officers or men on the
'
Queen Mary.' It was many days before this that I was in-
formed of the vision, both by the mother and Mrs. Baxter.
Later, Dr. Latham wrote as follows :
July 15, 1916.
My distinct impression is that the hallucination was mentioned
to Mrs. Malpress before the Naval Battle was known of. But I
really cannot fix the date when it was told to me. All I can
say is that, when I was told of the hallucination, I questioned
Mrs. Baxter, and she told me quite simply that she had seen
her brother on the deck of his ship, that he looked quite as
usual, but never spoke a word. She told me this many days
before she knew of the Battle, but I cannot fix the date.
[Were any other hallucinations described to you during the
illness ? And have you heard of any experiences of the same
kind that Mrs. Baxter ever had ?]
No, only that she said such " queer things."
I am quite sure that neither Mrs. Malpress nor Mrs. Baxter
have ever had any other previous experience of the Idnd. They
took no interest in the subject when I was first informed of it,
which was early, and long before anything appeared in the papers.
(Signed) H. Lath.\m, M.B. (Edin.), etc.
NOTES ON CURRENT PERIODICALS.
The Unpopular Review. When Mr. Henry Holt, the well-
known pubhsher and the author of the very elaborate summary
of the results of Psychical Research entitled On the Cosmic Rela-
tions, started The Unpopular Revietv in Jan. 1914, one of the
unduly unpopular subjects he determined to popularize was
Psychical Research. His Review has ever since had articles
bearing on this topic in almost every number. At first these
were only abstracts, speculations and expositions of work already
done, by the Editor, Mr. H. A. Bruce and Prof. W. R. Newbold ;
latterly, however, fresh evidence has been presented. The July
1915 number, for example, has an account by Mr. E. W. Friend
of automatic writings, obtained through his wife, which purported
to come from WilUam James. Mr. Friend, as readers of the
obituary note in this Journal for April 1916 will remember, was
a promising American scholar who was proposing to devote
his life to Psychical Research, but was one of the many victims
208 Journal of Society for PsycJdcal Research. Jcly, 1916.
of the Lusiiania's disaster. In printini; Mr. Friend's notes the
Editor admits that they are not evidential, i.e. that they do
not contain information about James which was unknown to
the automatist, hut both he and Mr. Friend thought that the
part of James was well acted and that many of the answers
were characteristic of his manner. It should be noted, however,
that though she had never met James and was not a trained
philosopher, Mrs. Friend had read a good deal in his books, and
also a little Bergson. It seems to me also that though the
remark " I could tear up some of my Psychology/, but not a
damn word of Pragmatism " sounds authentic, the other passages
quoted as characteristic are quite unconvincing. For example,
the reply to the question '
What do you think now of the moral
equivalent of war?' 'There is no moral equivalent to a pro-
ceeding so barbarous,' seems entirely oblivious of the whole
point and argument of James's splendid essay with this title.
Again, I grieve to say, that Mrs. Friend's '
James '
has, in spite
of the asseveration quoted above, somewhat forgotten his prag-
matism. " When a spirit unhampered by material mechanism
calls to his being a thought, it calls to him the whole meaning
of the subject in its true universal relation "
(p. 184) is certainly
not a pragmatic sentiment. It is Platonic. The doctrine that
perceptions are '
separated '
into conceptions for practical use is
distinctively Bergsonian. On the whole, therefore, it will be
safer to return a verdict of '
not proven.'
The number for Jan. 1916 contains a report on the case of
" Patience Worth." She first communicated through a ouija board
controlled by Mrs. J. H. Curran of St. Louis in July 1913,
and her records already amount to five large volumes of type-
script. Mr. Holt, who has examined these and the manu-
script of a then forthcoming book by Mr. C. S. Yost, the
editor of the St. Louis Globe- Democrat, declares that " very little
of this matter is the frequent trash of involuntary writing.
Nearly all of it is to be taken seriously as literature. Much
of it is literature of a high order." Certainly '
Patience Worth '
writes dehghtfully sententious and pungent Elizabethan (or
Jacobean) English, and extemporizes abundant blank verse which
has strong claims to be ranked as poetry. The contrast between
her language and the colloquial American of the sitters is very
striking and is consistently sustained. But of course it is not
evidential. '
Patience Worth '
has, it seems, made no attempt
to authenticate herself as a historical character. She has, there-
fore, so far to be treated as a '
secondary personality '
of Mrs.
Curran. But she bids fair to enrich the records of automatism
and enlarge our knowledge of what secondary personality really
is and of what it is capable. Mr. Yost's book on the case
has now been published, and is included in the Library of the
F. C. S. S.
No. CCCXXXII.-VoL. XVII. October, 191C.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAOE
Notice of Meeting, 209
0&s6Sj .
210
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDAY, NOVEMBER <)ih, 1916, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ENTITLED
''The Ear of Dionysius,"
\
WILL BE READ BY
•
. The Right Hon. G. W. BALFOUR.
N.B.
—
JVo Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
•210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1916.
NOTICE.
Owing to unavoidahle delay the next Part of the PROCEEDINGS, lohich
it was hoped would he published in Octoher, loill not appear till November.
The next number of the Journal will he issued in December, and will
he a double number.
CASES.
L. 1205. I.
The foUomng case of what appears to be a telepathic dream
was brought to our notice by an associate of the Society,
Mi-. Ben Davies, who is personally acqu4.inted with the per-
cipient, Mrs. Phillips, of 21a Dean Road, Cricklewood, N.W.
Mrs. Phillips's original statement was as follows :
June 5, 1916.
On the morning of Thursday, June Ist, I looked at my watch
and found it was 5.30 a.m. I went to sleep again, and had the
following dream :
I went to the window and drew aside the bhnd ; in the distance
(on my right) I saw a number (9 or 12) of luminous objects
flying in an aimless way in a circle. Nearer was a smaller group.
On looking closer I saw they were dead heads with small wings
on the side of the head (something like the head of Hypnos at
the British Museum) and when the face was turned away the
back view was that of a Union Jack. I saw the colours distinctly.
One of the nearer group came wafting toward me, not using
the wings, and as it came 1 could distinguish the features. It
was a man's dead face, the eyes were closed and [it] was unknown
to me. It came close to my window and knocked up against
the glass. I heard the sound and can still remember it. I
tapped the pane several times to try and make it go away, and
then I woke up. Sybil M. Phillips.
Mrs. Phillips's statement was corroborated by her husband
and two neighbours, as follows :
(a) 21a Dean Road, Cricklewood, N.W. [June 5, 1916.]
My wife related her dream, as contained in the foregoing
statement, to me on Thursda} afternoon, June 1st. No rumours
of the naval engagement of the j^revious evening were known
by either of us at that time.^ B. E. Phillips.
^ The. MOWS of the battle of Juthmd was first published in the evening
papers of Friday, June 2, 1916.
Oct., 1916. Gases. 211
(6) Bedford House, York Place, W. [Received June 9, 1916.]
JVIrs. Phillips told me the foregoing dream on the morning of
Thursday, June 1st. M. Sturgeon.
(c) 6 Hawke Road, Upper Norwood. [Received June 9, 1916.]
Sirs. PhilUps told me this dream on the morning of Thursday
last. Makiun Ct, Ewen.
We also received a statement from Mr. Davies to the effect
that ou the morning of Saturday, June 3, 1916, when the
news had come of the naval battle, a neighbour to whom
Mi's. Phillips had pre\nously related the dream came to her
and suggested that it should be interpreted as referring to
this battle. On June 9, 1916, we therefore wrote to Mrs.
Phillips to ask the following questions :
(i) Was the neighbour referred to in Mr. Da\'ies's statement
one of those whose corroboration we had received ?
(ii) Did Mrs. Phillips often dream ? If so, had she ever
before had any veridical dreams ? Was there anything specially
vivid about her dream on June 1, 1916 ?
To these enquii'ies JVIi-s. Phillips replied as follows :
21a Dean Road, Cricklewood, N.W. Sunday, [June 11, 1916].
I cannot say that I have ever had a dream before which
was so YiYid and impressed me so much. 1 dream very often,
almost every night, but these dreams are of a scrappy and in-
consequent natm-e ; often 1 cannot recall them. You may judge
how much this dream impressed me by the fact that 1 told
it to so many people. I think the fact that I didn't connect
this dream with the naval battle immediately was because I
was so engrossed with the battle itself, but of coiu'se as soon
as Mrs. Ewen suggested the connection in the morning (I heard
the news on Friday night) 1 knew of course that it was some-
thing of the kind you suggest. Although I cannot claim to
have had any other dream which exhibited supernormal know-
ledge, it may interest you to know that my mother has had
many such dreams. For instance, when my husband had sun-
stroke in India, we found she (here in England) had dreamed
on or about the same date that he was so hot she could not
come near to him. Perhaps these quahties are hereditary.
S. M. Phillips.
21:^ Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1916.
Mrs. Ewen's corroboration of the dream was received first
on June 9, 1916 (see above), but we also received the following
statement from her :
6 Hawke Road, Upper Norwood, June 25, 1916.
Mrs. Phillips told her dream to me on the Thursday morning
[June 1, 1916], and I was under the impression that she told
me that the dead face had a sailor's cap on. Mxs,. Phillips is
quite certain that she did not say so, and I possess a rather
vivid imagination. I must have pictured this in my mind. I
asked Mrs. PhilHps at the time if she had any friends in the
Navy, for I was convinced that it had to do with that. I cannot
explain this at all. Marion Ewen.
The weak point about Mrs. Phillips's dream, if we are to
interpret it as relating to the naval battle of May 31, 1916,
is that there is nothing distinctively naval about it ; for a
Union Jack might evidently be associated with any one who
had died in the defence of this country, on land as well as
on sea. It may be slightly i)i favour of a naval interpretation
that Mrs. Phillips should have seen heads only without bodies,
for this peculiarity of her vision has no obvious association
with the idea of corpses on a field of battle, whereas any
one, picturing to themselves a sinking ship, is likely to think
of the drowning men in the water with only their heads
visible. This perhaps accounts for the fact that Mrs. Ewen,
when she heard the dream, seems at once to have associated
it in her own mind with some naval event.
II.
L. 1206.
We have also received lately through Sir Lawrence Jones
another record of a dream, apparently telepathic, the dreamer
being his sister, Mrs. Fuller-Maitland. Her record of the
dream (contained in a letter to Sir L. Jones) is as follows :
Wood Rising, Rye, Sussex, April 25, 1916.
Edward [Mr. Fuller-Maitland] has a picture in [the] R.A. We
heard on Saturday morning it was in. On Friday afternoon
[April 21, 1916] I was very tired and went to he down about
3.30. I fell asleep for a few minutes, and as I woke up 1 had
a distinct vision of the big room in the R.A. and Edward's
Oct. , 1916. Cases. 213
picture hanging on the left of the door as you go in from the
second room. I came down and said to E., " Your picture is
in and is hung in the big room high up on the left of the door."
The next morning he got his in-notice, and yesterday he went
up for varnishing day and found his picture in the big room
on the left of the door high up ! I saw the room as plainly
as possible, and it was quite empty, two or three men in it
and no red velvet sofas. Mr. Powles says they judge the pictures
in that room and that probably the sofas are removed. ^
Sir Lawrence Jones corroborates Mrs. FuUer-Maitland's
statement, as follows :
39 Harrington Gardens, S.W., June 2, 1916.
The picture is hung on the right of the door from Room No. 2,
as you enter, but on the left as you look at [it] from the big
room itself. My sister says that she seemed to be standing
at the end of the room and that the picture seemed to her
about a third of the way down the wall. This is about correct.
LawHENCE J. JONLS.
We also wrote to Mr. Fuller-Maitland asking for a corro-
borative statement, and received the following reply :
Wood Rising, Rye, Sussex, June 10, 1916.
I am sending, as you request, an independent account of my
wife's veridical dream. On Good Friday afternoon [April 21,
1916] my wife told me that she had just had a vision of my
larger picture (I sent another which was also kept back but
not hung) hung on the right of the door of the large room, as
you enter, and rather high up. 1 asked her to put her impres-
sions down in writing, which unfortunately she did not do, but
she told Mr. Powles in my presence. It was, as I told her
at the time, extremely unhkely that I should be hung in the
coveted large room, if hung at all, especially as the picture is
relatively small.
The following morning I received my varnishing ticket, and
on Monday went straight to the place she mentioned, where
I saw my picture. Edward Fuller-Maitland.
On June 5, 1916, we wrote to Mrs. Fuller-Maitland asking
the following questions :
(a) Whether any other picture of Mr. Fuller-Maitland 's
had, on a previous occasion, been hung in or near the place
which figured in her dream.
1 It has been ascertained that this conjecture is right.
214 Jour'nal of Society for Psychical Reseaich. Oct., 1916
(6) If she expected that the picture (to which the dream
related) would be hung.
Mrs. FuUer-Maitland replied as follows :
Wood Rising, Rye, Sussex, June 10, 1916.
lu answer to your questions about my dream on Good Friday,
(rt) My husband has never before had a picture hung in the big
room at the R.A. (6) 1 did not expect the picture to be hung,
though I knew it had a chance. Accepted pictures are so con-
stantly crowded out that till the varnishing ticket actually arrives
one can never feel the least certain.
GERTRUDIi J. FuLLER-MaITLAND.
The following corroborative statement was also received
from Mr. Powles, who is a member of the Society :
The Highlands, Rye, Sussex, June 11, 1916.
I do not remember the exact date, but I clearly remember
that it was some days before the result of the hanging at the
R.A. was known to outsiders, that Mrs. Fuller-Maitland told
me of a vivid dream she had had, m which she saw her husband's
pictm'e placed rather high up on the south wall of Room III.
—
.
not quite in the middle, but rather nearer the entrance from
Room II.
Less clearly I seem to remember that she told me it had
originally been placed farther down on the right of that wall.
L. C. FOWLES.
The value of this case depends to a considerable extent
on the question of how' exactly the position of the picture
in Mrs. FuUer-Maitland's dream corresponded with its actual
position on the wall of the room at the Royal Academy.
It will be seen that there is an apparent discrepancy between
the statements made by Mr. and Mrs. Fuller-Maitland as
to the position of the picture in the dream. Mrs. Fuller-
Maitland in her letter to Sir L. Jones says that she saw it
" hanging on the left of the door as you go in from the
2nd room " ; Mr. Fuller-Maitland says that in his wife's
dream the picture was " on the right of the door of the
large room as you enter." Sir Lawrence Jones explains this
discrepancy (see above) and says that Mrs. Fuller-Maitland
imagined herself standing " at the end of the room," facing
the picture, we may suppose. Looked at from that position, the
Oct., 1916. Oases. 215
picture is correctly described as being " on the left of the
door " leading from Room II. into Room III.
Mrs. Fuller-Maitland's original statement that the picture
was " on the left of the door as you go in from the 2nd
room " was not accurate, but Sir L. Jones's interpretation
of her words is confirmed by Mr. Powles's statement that
" she saw her husband's picture placed rather high up on
the South Wall of Room III., not quite in the middle, but
rather nearer the entrance from Room II."
Room II.
Door-
S. Wall Picture
Room III.
The above plan (which is a rough sketch, not drawn to
scale) makes it clear that a picture in the position described
by Mr. Powles must be on the left of the door from Room II.
from the point of view of a spectator facing this door.
In view, however, of the fact that no written record was
made of the dream until after its confirmation, it will be
wiser in weighing the allowance that must be made for chance-
coincidence to assume only that Mrs. FuUer-Maitland was
correct as to the wall upon which the picture was hung.
Now there are eight rooms at the Royal Academy in which
a picture of the size of Mr. Fuller-Maitland's might be placed
and four walls to each room. Moreover, the picture having
been accepted as doubtful, the chances were about even
whether it would be hung or not ; for of accepted pictures
about half are crowded out. This would make the odds 63 to
1 against Mrs. FuUer-Maitland being correct in her statement
that the picture would be hung on a particular wall. Probably,
however, the odds may be reckoned as higher than this, first
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1916.
because Mr. Fuller-Maitland had another picture accepted
as doubtful, about which Mrs. Fuller-Maitland might have
dreamt, and it was not likely that both pictures would be
hung on the same wall of Room III. ; and secondly, because
there is reason to think that Mrs. Fuller-Maitland was approxi-
mately right as to the position of the picture on the wall.'
As to what cause—other than chance—is likely to have
been operative, it should be noted that the picture had almost
certainly been hung at the time of Mrs. FuUer-Maitland's
dream. Its position was therefore known to several people,
and Mrs. Fuller- Maitlaud's impression may have been tele-
pathically derived.
1 1 went to the Royal Academy on July 28. I chose a picture which I
judged to occupy the position described by Mrs. Fuller-Maitland, but on
referring to the catalogue I found that the picture of her dream was about
10 feet further to the right, immediately next to the door between Room II.
and Room III. —H. de G. S.
No. CCCXXXIII.—Vol. XVIl. Novbmber-Decembek, 1916.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, 217
Meeting of Council, 218
Private Meeting, 219
Changes in the Staff, 219
The British College of Psychic Science, 219
A First Experiment in Suffgestion, 220
Cases, 230
Review, 238
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Mevibers are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed iii Small Capitals.
Champion de Ciespigny, Mrs. Philip, Artillery Mansions,
Westminster, London, S. W.
Hall, Miss M. Radclyffe, 22 Cadogan Court, Draycott Avenue,
Chelsea, London, S. W.
King, W. A. D., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 1 Bishop's Place, Paignton,
Devon.
Lorimer, Miss Emilia S., 45 Marston Street, Oxford.
Metcalfe, W. John, Dean Court, Pyrford, Nr. Woking, Surrey.
Salmon, Mrs. Spencer, Crockham Hill Place, Edenbridge, Kent.
Selborne, The Earl of, K.G., Blackmoor, Liss, Hants.
Stobart, Mrs. St. Clair, 7 Turner's Wood, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W.
Troubridge, Mrs., 13 Royal Hospital Road, Chelsea, London, S.W,
Waller-Sawyer, Mrs., Moystown House, Belmont, King's Co.
Ireland.
Baddeley, Miss Florence A, Cathedral House, Gloucester.
Kelly, Miss Eleanor B., Sea Craig, Bognor, Sussex.
Lodge, Stephen B., 16 Bankburn Road, Tue Brook, Liverpool.
Mackenzie, Miss Maud R. R., 27 Cheyne Row, Chelsea, London, S.W
218 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov.-Dkc, loie.
OxENHAM, Mrs., 3 Baring Crescent, Exeter,
Salter, W. H., 2 Campden Hill Gardens, London, W.
SCHAUFFLER, ROBERT H., 3 Spruce Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Srinivasa Raghavachariar, v., Chittoor, Cliittoor District, Madras
Presidency, India.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 142nd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Wednesday, October 25th, 1916,
at 4 p.m. ; The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the
chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir
W. F. Barrett, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, Dr. F. C. S.
Schiller, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Mr.
H. Arthur Smith ;
also. Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Ten new Members and eight^new^Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The monthly Accomits for June, July, August and September,
1916, were presented and taken as read.
The Comicil desire to put on record their sense of the
great loss the Society has sustained in the death of Mrs.
Verrall, especially as a scientific worker, but also as a
valued member of the Council.
They also desire to express their appreciation of the generous
legacy of £500 bequeathed to the Society under Mrs. VerraU's
will.
A letter was read from Miss Alice Johnson resigning the
post of Eesearch Ofl&cer and Editor to the Society, on account
of continued bad health.
It was resolved :
" That Miss Johnson's resignation be
accepted with much regret ; and that the Council place on
record their high appreciation of the services she has rendered
the Society first as Secretary and later as Editor and Research
Officer, and in particular their recognition of the success
with which she has maintained the high standard of accuracy
of the Society's Proceedings and Journal.'"
Further resolutions were unanimously carried that Miss
Nov. -Dec, 1916. Meeting of the Society. 219
Johnson be asked to accept a retiring pension, and that she
be elected au Honorary Member of the Society.
Mrs. Salter was appointed Editor and Hon. Kesearch Officer,
Miss Newton was appointed Librarian, in addition to her
present office of Secretary.
The Council filled the vacant place among their elected
Members, caused by the death of Mrs. Verrall, by appointing
to it Professor Gilbert Murray, hitherto a co-opted Member.
PEIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
The 55th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, November 9th, 1916, at
4 p.m., Sir Lawrence Jones in the chair.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Baleour read a paper entitled
" The Ear of Dionysius," which will be published later in the
Proceedings.
CHANGES IN THE STAFF OF THE SOCIETY.
Members of the Society will learn with very great regret that
Miss Alice Johnson, who has been out of health for more
than a year, has resigned her appointment as Research Officer
and Editor. The Council have appointed, as Editor and
Honorary Research Officer, Mrs. Salter, to whom all editorial .
communications should therefore be addressed.
It is suggested that any one wishing to see Mrs. Salter
should, if possible, write beforehand to make an appointment.
The Secretary, Miss Isabel Newton, has been appointed
Secretary and Librarian.
THE BRITISH COLLEGE OF PSYCHIC SCIENCE.
Also called
The National Institute op Psychic Science.
Editorial Note. We have had many enquiries lately
from Members and Associates concerning the Society which
ib is proposed to establish under one or other of the above
'
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov.-Dec, 1916.
titles. For ttiis reason, and at the particular suggestion of
some Members of our Comicil, we take this opportunity of
stating that the Society for Psychical Research has not had
any connexion with either the National Institute or the British
College cf Psychic Science.
We understand that Sir William Barrett, Sir Oliver Lodge,
Dr. Abraham Wallace, and Mr. J. Arthur Hill do not wish
their names to be used in connexion with the proposed Institu-
tion.
A FIRST EXPERIMENT IN SUGGESTION.^
By F. Kenneth Girdlestone.
[The author of this paper is a Member of this Society.
The names of the patient and of the doctors who attended
the case have been given to us, but are withheld here by
request.—Ed.]
Being interested in Psychology, I very naturally accepted a
proposal made by one of our military doctors that I should
visit a patient of his who had been found wandering in our
town and who had been brought by the police to the hospital,
where he was found to be suffering from complete loss of
memory : the memory of events both near and remote was
obliterated from his mind, and his power of recognition was
gone ; he no longer knew his wife, when she visited him,
nor could he identify himself. He had not lost the power
of speech, but I understand that before I saw him he made
known his wants by other signs ;
indeed, he continued acting
thus until the lost, or rather dormant, powers of which I
have spoken gradually, and at first almost imperceptibly,
returned.
When I first saw him I was unaware of the length of time
he had been in hospital. I learnt later that he had been
there some three weeks, and that he had remained for that
period in a dazed kind of condition, his facial expression
being at times that of a man bewildered by an insoluble
problem.
My knowledge of the doctor's patient, whom I will call
1 The method adopted for inducing hypnosis was acquired by the -vvriter's
actual experience of treatment by fully qualified medical men.
Nov. -Dec, 1916. ^-1 First Experiment in Suggestion. 221
my pupil for reasons that will soon become obvious, was
scanty. His history as far as I knew it was that by trade
he was a fitter, that he had an accident in which he injured
his right arm seventeen vears since, that he was for a short
time in the Police Force, had joined the shire Regiment
at the outbreak of the war, had been discharged as medically
imfit after a month's service, had le-enlisted in the R.A.M.C.,
had been in France for about five months, where he was
wounded in the same arm that had been previously injured
in the accident, and that he had left his depot on his return
from the Front and had been found as I have already de-
scribed. I also knew that he was a married man with two
children, and it was not long before I learnt that his age,
according to a medical report hanging beside his bed, was
six and forty.
I first hypnotised my pupil (January 28, 1916) in a little
room which I was assured would be free from noise. I
asked him to lie in an easy chair, or it may be that I pointed
to it. Anyhow he readily did so, and upon my resting the
palm of my hand across his forehead and suggesting rest, etc.,
he fell into a doze. He was awakened from this by reason
of some one suddenly bursting open the door. My pupil
immediately moved his left arm upwards, resting his head
in the palm of his left hand, and began mumbling something
about a wall 4000 feet high and later about " Dr. Jordan . . .
of Brumagum . . . little fellow." To my question as to
whether he had ever heard of Dr. Jordan he replied slowly
that he'd heard the name.
The next day (January 29) he seemed for a moment to
recognize me, but upon my taking a chair beside his bed
(I never used the small room again, as I found that it was
used for stores which might be wanted at any moment) he
suddenly named all the days of the week in French several
times. I now began instructing him as if he were a child.
I brought with me a child's ABC, the letters being large
capitals, coloured, and each ha\dng beside it an animal, also
coloured, its name beginning with the letter alongside of
which it lay. He soon began coppug these letters. With
his right hand he generally copied them correctly, with his
left, where possible, they were reversed, so that E became
222 Journal of Society for Psycliical Research. Nov.-Dec, 1916,
D Q, etc. There was also a strong inclination to begin
drawing his letters from right to left instead of vice versa.
But when once the proper method was pointed out to
him the inclination grew less and less. After some days
it disappeared and only recurred on two noteworthy
occasions, of which I shall speak in due course. He
seemed unable to copy any letters beyond K. I managed
to get him to repeat their names so far and then thought
I would find out if he were able to appreciate numbers.
He had the greatest difficulty in numbering my five fingers,
but he found it easier to comit the letters of the alphabet,
not because the alphabet would be easier to count, but because
once again familiar with the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, they would
probably flow more easily a second time. And such was
the case ; for upon my saying A, B, etc., he articulated 1, 2,
etc. When I reached G, however, he was unable to continue,
so I did so for him, saying Gr. 7, H. 8, I. 9, J. 10. He
instantly broke in: "number in Police Force," when he
heard me say ten. He then began talking about a bath, and '
I asked him what water was. To answer this required a
lot of thought. At length he replied slowly yet decidedly,
" Something that makes you dry." There was then a very
long pause, during which he was no doubt trying to correct
himself, for his next utterance was, " Not dry but wet."
This made me think that not only was there an inclination
to invert letters, when copying, but one also to invert ideas.
It must be remarked that he talked with great caution, both
DOW and for some time, as if trying his best to correct these
inverted ideas. When milk was brought to him, and I pointed
to it, he called it du lait. He asked me the number of days in
the week and the number of weeks in the year, to which
queries I replied respectively 7 and 52. He then asked
me the number of days in a year, and I naturally replied
365. Almost before the words had left my lips, he quietly
but decidedly told me how many he considered the correct
number, namely 364. This number stood Out clearly before
him, he said. The result of 7 multiplied by 52 had flashed
to his mind.
The third day (January 30) I again hypnotised him, and
I may mention in passing that he always appeared to lose
Nov.-Dec, 1916. A First Experiment in Suggestion. 223
what for the sake of convenience I will call ordinary con-
sciousness when under hypnosis, although when awake he
seemed to be living in a dream. Nevertheless most of his
questions were quite sensible ones. For instance, he asked
where Calcutta was and how much it would cost to get
there, but was well satisfied when I showed him two florins,
three coppers, and a shilling. His train of thought had no
doubt suddenly changed, and instead of the coins answering
his question, they brought to him the idea of moulding, for
he proceeded to show me how to make them. He then
asked me what compasses are, at the same time trying to
draw imaginary circles, his thumb being the centre, his first
finger describing the circumference. " Can you measure to
1/1000 inch ?
" was another of his questions.
On the next day, Monday, January 31, I again hypnotised
him. This I continued to do daily, at first merely suggesting
rest and quiet, and then that the memory should gradually
return. On the Tuesday he asked me what I did. I said,
" Writing." He then noticed the armlet I was wearing and
was able to distinguish the colours and to name them. When
I showed him a yellow colour, he was unable to say what it
was, but he struck a match, blew it out, and then asked
me where the flame had gone. " Like life," he remarked,
" goes out " ; this before I had time to frame an explanation.
His power of philosophical speculation did not seem to have
been impaired, perhaps it was even stimulated.
On the Wednesday a hazy notion as to what time is became
noticeable in his remarks.
" I saw a lady this morning who told me you were her
son. I don't believe it, she looks so young." (My mother
had visited him the previous afternoon. She is vivacious
and has a youthful figure.)
On Thursday he showed some resistance to rest, but he
jaelded after a little persuasion. He did a Jig-Saw puzzle
and moulded coins, etc., in Plasticine. He now knew all
the capitals with the exception of Z.
On the following day (February 4) I gave him a child's
copy book, which he told me he would study after I had
gone. I also began teaching him the small letters used for
printmg, and gave him a book with pictures of machinery
224 Journal of Society for Psychical i2esearc/i. Nov.-Dkc, 1916.
in it. I wrote to his wife, and told my pupil that I had
written to " Maggie " in answer to a letter she had sent him.
I gave him typewritten extracts from this letter so that he
could copy the letters.
The letter referred to is from ^bury. My pupil tells
me (Saturday, February 5), that he will go there when
they let him out, as somebody might know him there. In
answer to my question whether time seems longer when I am
absent he replies, "Yes." He now recognizes the lady who
visits him three times a week (my mother). By signal he
asks me to bring him some cigarettes. He can now read
most of the small printed letters. He has done some copying,
and is always ready to show me how he progresses. Writing
comes more naturally with his left hand ; with the right he
draws the letters as if copying pictures. On the next day,
Sunday, I show him a box. He draws a rectangle and writes
BOX on it at my suggestion. I get him to do the same
with many other objects, always making him spell the word ;
then I pronounce it and he repeats it. He writes alternately
with the right and left hand, with one until tired, then with
the other. I have forgotten to say that after my first experi-
ment I always visited him in the ward where there are some
forty patients.
I will now let my notes, as taken day by day, speak for
themselves :
Monday, February 7. Points to word " eggs " in copy-book,
says he had them for breakfast (correct). " Have anjrthing
else ? " I enquire. " Bread and butter," he replies (correct).
Asks if malarial fever is near Singapore. Gives account of how
he will live with " that girl." (Has already told me that having
no work and no money it would be vsrong to have a wife yet.)
Says he won't give her any money when he gets some, but will
feed her. Parcel arrives by j)ost from his wife. Writes a post-
card of thanks at my dictation. Can only pronounce small
words. Can't send love because he hasn't any.
Tuesday, February 8. Has copied the days of the week and
put a cross through Sunday and Monday. Proceeds to cross
out Tuesday, as now that I have come another day has gone.
Says he cannot draw a box I show him because it is solid and
the paper is flat. He draws it, making the sides contiguous
Nov.-dec, 191C. A First Experiment in Suggestion. 225
with the top ; there is no knowledge of perspective. Writes
faster, chiefly using his left hand.
Wednesday, February 9. When I move the hands of my
watch, he tells me they must be on different shafts, otherwise
they would move at the same speed. Readily understands the
relation between the movements of the two hands. I tell him
the little hand moves one space to the big hand's ten. " Wrong,"
he says. When I say 1 to 12, he says I am right. He draws
shafts, pulleys, and all kinds of engines, explaining them minutely-
I give him a very difficult puzzle involving the placing together
of six pieces of wood so as to make a Slaltese cross. He does
it with ease. I give him a calendar from which he can tear
off each day as it passes.
Thursday, February 10. I have not hypnotised him for two
days, but now do so. When awake he asks the following ques-
tions :
" What's the place where (he raises his hand about 3 feet
from the floor, evidently meaning children) go . . . the bell
rings . . . there's a blackboard ?
"
" School," I reply.
He says they are not all that height (lowers and raises his
hand) and one is bigger than all (the master).
' Was it before I came here that I went there . . . and have
I been here ever since ?
"
I answer his questions and tell him his memory is returning
and that he will soon remember what he did between leaving
school and coming here. He asks about Maggie, and says that
if she recognizes him, he'll go back with her when she comes.
He is beginning to read short words aloud.
Friday, February 11. I hypnotise him. WTien awake he asks
me if when " they " (children) are ten they work in cotton
mills. I say it's rather young to do so, but he insists that
they can go to school half a day and work the rest. He writes
several words without my dictating them, and when I draw a
hammer and other tools he is able to spell them phonetically,
likewise a number of words, both English and French, such as
Wensday and Bon sivar, not taught him pictorially or otherwise
by me.
Saturday, February 12. I h}'p)notise him. When awake he
asks what a specialist is, and mentions Queen's Hospital and
Dr. Jordan Lloyd who has a black beard. (This I now know
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov. -Dec, 19I6.
is the doctor who saw hun seventeen years ago at the said
Hospital.) He asks what excitement is, and says he was told he
mustn't have any. He points at the figure 10 on box and says
he had that number on his neck. " When you were a police-
man," I say. I show him a map of England and point out
his home, bury, and other places. He puts his finger on
Wolverhampton, spells it, and says he has been there. He can
spell equally well when names are inverted.
Sunday, February 13. He shows me the following names he
has written down : JAMES A. JOHNSON, FRANK GIBSON,i
LOWER HOPTON ROAD, MIRFIELD. He tells me both these
live at Mirfield, that the former is himself (in reality a brother),
the latter his sister (in reality his brother-in-law and his address).
He writes down in my presence treboR. I tell him he has
written one of his own names backwards. He then writes
ROBERT (3) JOHN(l) JOHNSON i
(2), in the order indicated by
the numbers, his own name. I do not try to hypnotise him.
Monday, February 15. I hypnotiss him. On his awaking
I ask :
" Have you had any rest ?
"
" No," he answers.
" Would you like to go to sleep ?
"
" I've too much to think of."
He then asks, " If I had a brother and he was 4 years younger
than me and was born in '74, when was I born ?
"
I answer, " In '70."
" What is an apprentice 1
"
I tell him, and he then slowly unfolds his history.
" I was apprenticed to an engineer from '84 to '92. Went
to Mirfield, worked in Locomotive Department of the Lancashire
and Yorkshire Railway for three years. (He writes down '92-'95.)
Then went to Bombay, Calcutta, Singapore, etc., working for
the East India Government Railway. Had malarial fever. Came
back to Mirfield, joined Police Force at -Dewsbury. In 1901
(numbers always written down) was invalided out with pension
of 10s. a week. I have a wife, but the pension is sent to her
mother. In March, 1902, I went to Asylum as attendant
for six months. In 1900 when a jjoliceman I was smashed
up in a riot, and was for twelve months in hospital. (He then
told me a secret which I promised not to divulge.) I was
1 Pseudonyms.
Nov. -Dec, 1916. A First Experiment in Suggestion. 227
married in November, 1903 ... I joined the shire Regiment.
I was a good .shot. One of the doctors at the depot recognized
me and I was discharged. I'll bet my missus has the Discharge
. . . no, here it is." (He produced it.)
Interspersed with and following this narrative, Pte. Johnson gave
me a mass of information concerning machinery with which his
mind seemed flooded. This I leave unrecorded, only adding
that he also told me that at one time he was a foreman with
twenty-two men under him in an engineering workshop, and
that his mother died when he was young.
He is unable to tell me anything about himself or anyone else,
or about any events, since his re-enlistment in 1914.
I have seen my pupil daily since the above note was written,
but I have been unable to hypnotise him until to-day, a week
since. The memory of the past eighteen months is very
gradually coming back to his nn'nd, for he has mentioned one
or two places in France where he has been, and has even
been able to describe one. I have got corroboration of bis state-
ments and I find him substantially correct. He now writes
with his right hand only, and writes a good hand. He reads
'fluently. Of writing mth his left hand he has no recollection,
nor can he remember writing in the copy books. He is quite
unable to tell me the days of the week in French, nor does
.he imderstand my meaning w'hen I wish him " hon soir."
January-February, 1916.
Medical notes on the case by the doctor in charge, taken
at the patient's bedside.
Disease—Loss of Memory, (old) Dislocation of Head of Radius
1210.
-6. 1. 16. Brought up to Hospital by the police, who found him
wandering about having lost his memory. He can remember
nothing of his past life, not even where he came from or
was going to. Has deformity in the region of the head of
the radius—enlargement of the head of the bone with a
slight creaking in passive movement. There is some slight
limitation of flexion, extension and supination.
X ray shows—Old dislocation of head of radius forwards
-with osteoarthritic changes in the head, and the formation
of a fossa in the external epicondylar ridge.
22 S Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov. Dec, 1916.
10. 1. 16. His memory of the last few days is exceedingly dim.
He does not remember coming into Hospital.
11. 1. 16. He tells me that he has been to a cricket match
while it was dark. He has been trying to think who
has been playing. Dr. (consulting neurologist) has
examined him. at my request and reports
—" I have tmce
examined Pte. Johnson and find him suffering from complete
loss of memory both recent and remote. He cannot
remember his own name and where he comes from ;
memory
in fact for past events is completely gone with the exception
that he informs me that he dreams that he is or was a.
Police Officer and that he was pensioned for injuries to the
head (this may be a partial memory and may be correct).
He has three scars on the scalp, one on forehead and one
on left eyebrow. His expression is anxious. Pupils are
active to all reactions. Tongue protruded straight, but has
slight fine tremor. Tendon reflexes appear normal. No
Babuiski. No sensory changes.
The loss of memory probably may be due either to
epilepsy or old injury to head.
The man complains of parietal and occipital headache. He
is to be kept under observation."
19. 1. 16. Cannot be up long, as he gets giddy,
24. 1. 16. His wife has come and gives the following report
:
They have been married 12 years. Some 3-5 years before
the marriage Johnson had a very serious injury to his head
(and dislocation of his elbow). This laid him up for a long
time and he had to be invalided out of the Police Force
in which he then was. He became a fitter in a machine
shop. He was employed thus until the war broke out
in Aug., 1914. He joined the shires on the third day
of the war, but in September, 1914, he was discharged as
'
medically unfit.' After about a fortnight he re-enlisted,
this time in the R.A.M.C. in Birmingham. He was sent
to Aldershot, and in April, 1915, he was sent to France.
He was sent home in October, 1915, with an injury to his
right elbow (the site of the old dislocation) which Mrs. Johnson
thinks was a shell injury. He was in a hospital in the
north for a month, then had ten days' furlough, then
back to Aldershot, but on January 1st came heme again.
His wife found out he had no pass and no leave, so she
Nov.-Dec, 191'c. A First Experiment in Suggestion. 229
persuaded him to go back and saw Kim oil at Snow Hill
on the 5th. During this time at home his wife noticed
that he seemed '
queer altogether.'
He broke his right forearm 12 years ago. This seemed
to upset liis head again and he was laid up for six months,
three months in hosoital, and for three months afterwards
his head was queer. Apart from his accidents his head
has seemed all right dm'ing the 12 years of married life,
except for sleeplessness, for which he took veronal.
25. 1. 16. Dr. examined this man again yesterday in con-
junction with his wife's story. There is still almost
complete loss of recent as well as remote memory. The
dreams he mentioned of having been in the Police Force and
invalided out of it have proved a product of memory. A
question he asked as to shaft revolutions and size of
pulleys was in relation to his past work.
There was on one occasion a false memory. He stated
that be had spent the night at a cricket match.
There is a history (from his wife) that if he took any
alcohol his memory became dazed.
27. 1. 16. Has some weakness over right side of body, especially
arm. Exaggerated right elbow jerk, right wrist jerk and
both knees jerk.
Said was in Queen's Hospital, Birmingham, under Jordan
Lloyd.
Under suggestion and partial hypnosis gave some memories
and did some calculation.
Recommend Wassermann iodides and continued suggestion.
29. 1. 16. Wassermann negative.
2. 2. 16. Memory for recent events is coming back. He re-
members his visitor of yesterday and what she said. Iodides
discontinued as produced headaches.
11. 2. 16. Distinct improvement in memory and in subjective
feeling. He remembers something of school and thinks
that at one time he did half a day's schooling and worked
half a day in a cotton-mill.
14. 2. 16. He now remembers his past life, his wife and children
and everything but the last eighteen months.
16. 2. 16. Progress maintained. No clear recovery of last eighteen,
months' memory.
230 Journal of Society for PsycJdcal Research. Nov. -Dec, 1916.
21. 2. 16. General condition very good. No improvement in
lost patch of memory.
Recommending for invaliding.
27. 2. 16. Has been discharged. To go home on the 30th.
CASES.
I.
L. 1207. Apparition of the Dying.
The following interesting case of an apparition seen at the
time of a sudden, critical illness, resulting in death, has been
sent to us through Sir George Beilby, a member of this Society,
to whom we are much indebted for the care with which all
available evidence has been collected.
The percipient's experience took place on April 4, 1913, and
her account of it, which we print below, was given in a
letter to Sir George Beilby, written three years and a half
later, as follows :
October 4, 1916.
I will wi'ite out the incident which, if you remember, I told
you by word of mouth in Glasgow last June—the incident of
my " sight " or vision of my brother in Australia shortly after he
must have fallen into the unconsciousness which lasted till his
death some days later.
It was if I remember rightly on the Friday evening [April 4,
1913], and,—which will fix the date,—I had been attending a
Committee Meeting called on that evening to help the election
of the Rev. Joseph Johnson, minister of the Park Avenue Con-
gregational Church, Ashton-on-Mersey, to the Knutsford Board
of Guardians. The election was to take place on the foUowmg
day. We had an animated meeting, and with my thoughts full
of this I left before its close, and (alone) turned out into the
brightly lighted and bustling thoroughfare of School Road, Sale.
I had walked but a few paces when I was staggered by seeing,
as in a cinema show, reflected in the air in front of me a clear-cut
picture of my brother in Australia, lying with the unmistakeably
helpless look of a dead or unconscious man who had just fallen.
I saw his pose, his clothes, and even his thick curling hair as
if in life before me.
Mechanically I must have continued walking as no one appeared
to notice me ; but I felt my brother was dying or dead, or that
Nov. -Dec, 1916. Gases. 231
something tragic was happening to him, and I began at once
praying for him in an agony of supplication. The picture faded,
and I hurried on out of the light of the shops and into the
darkness of Washway Road.
Suddenly, when halfway along the road, the picture shone out
again before my eyes, this time against the dark sky. Again
I saw the prone helpless figure, the colouring of clothes and hair,
then as before it faded quickly away, and I did not see it again.
I think it was between 8 and 9.30 p.m., or about then, that
I left the meeting. I remember that my sister had not been
very well, and that she was in bed. 'When I reached home I
ran up to her room and broke down in telling her what I had
just seen, saying I was "sure something had happened to Edgar."
I remember she tried to soothe me by saying I was simply
overtired—that I should get away to bed and " would see things
would be all risht in the morning." I tried to believe this
would be so, but all the Saturday and Sunday following I kept
thinking of my brother and praying constantly for him. On the
Monday morning the post brought a nice kind letter from him
written from Hobart from our cousin's home there, enclosing
a belated birthday gift for our small nephew,, dated 4th March.
We were so glad to have the letter, and my sister said :
" Now
you see Edgar is all right."
On the Thursday morning {i.e. April 10, 1913), my sister being
still confined to bed, I sent up the letters to her, then suddenly
I heard her cry out, and I rushed upstairs to find her sitting
up with a scared look holding out the (enclosed) letter from
Mr. Huie, C.A., from Edinburgh, stating that he had just
received a " cablegram from Mellsourne " announcing " the death
on April 7th of our brother Mr. J. Edgar Paterson.
The next news we had was when our sister-in-law's letter
(enclosed) arrived telling us how Edgar, when travelling home
from New Zealand to Melbourne, had suddenly fallen down
unconscious on the ship when nearing Melbourne, had been
carried ashore at Melbourne unconscious, and placed in Hospital
there (on the Saturday, April 5th, 1913), where he had lingered
without regaining consciousness till the Monday, April 7th, when
he slipped quietly away.
Mary M. Paterson.
We have received the following corroborative statement
from Miss Paterson's sister, Mrs. George Francis, to whom.
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. nov. Dec, 1916.
as related above, she described her experience on the evening
of April 4, 1913, before she knew anything of her brother's
illness :
October %m, 1916.
This is to certify that what my sister, Mary M. Paterson has
written re Friday, April 4th, 1913, and her experience then
regarding her sight of our brother, is just what she told me on her
return from the Election Meeting.
I perfectly remember the occurrences she describes in her accom-
panying letter to Sir George Beilby. Emily Francis.
According to Miss Paterson's clear recollection, confirmed by
Mrs. Francis, her experience took place when she was on
her way home from an election meeting held on behalf of
the Rev. Joseph Johnson. As to the date of this meeting
Mr. Johnson wrote to Miss Paterson as follows :
August 23, 1916.
We were glad to have your letter. Mrs. Johnson, R ,
and myself remember the account of your brother's vision ; and
when we get back 1 thiirk I can verify that date about the
Election Committee. I know it was in April. . . .
J. Johnson.
(Note by Mr. Johnson, received hy Miss Paterson,
October 28, 1916.)
Election, April 5, 1913. J. Johnson.
The meeting which Miss Paterson had attended took place
on the day preceding the election, and we have therefore
good evidence for the conclusion that Miss Paterson saw the
apparition of her brother, as described by her, on Friday,
April 4, 1913, between 8 p.m. and 9.30 p.m.
With regard to the time and circumstances of Mr. Edgar
Paterson's death, we have received the following evidence :
(
Letter to Mrs. Francis from Messrs. Huie and Ramage,
C.A.)
Edinburgh, ^^n7 9, 1913.
I greatly regret to intimate to you that I have been informed
by cable from Melbourne that Mr. Edgar Paterson died suddenly
there on 7th inst. I annex a copy of the cable.
Perhaps you will be so good as to inform Miss Paterson.
David Huie.
Nov. -Dec, 1916. Gases. 233
{Copy of Cablegram.)
Melbourne on 8th 12.30 p.m.
Huie Edin.gh.
J. Edgar Paterson died suddenly Melbourne seventh. Notify
sisters
(Extracts from Letters written hi] Mr. Paferson's widoiv in
Australia to Mrs. Francis and 3Iiss Paterson.)
1. April 15, [1913].
. . . Since I wrote you last week a friend of mine has called
who was on the steamer with Edgar. He says he was the
life of the boat, as he always was, and on Thursday night [April
3, 1913] he was quite bright and seemed quite well, but on
Friday morning when he was getting up he broke a blood-vessel,
caused by a complication of liver and kidney troubles. . . . Two
doctors stayed with him constantly from when he took ill on
Friday, 4th inst., until he was removed to the Hospital, fjth inst. . . .
2. 3Iay 14 [1913].
. . . How funny Mary for you to have had that experience or
presentiment about Edgar on the Friday night, for that was
the day he took ill. . . . Lily says he must have been thinking
of you at the time. . . .
3. June 24, 1913.
. . . One of my brothers-in-law saw the Captain of the steamer
Edgar was on. He took ill between 10 and 11 on Friday
morning and was up and dressed. He went unconscious at once.
Two doctors, who were on the steamer as passengers, stayed
with him constantly, then a specialist was called on the steamer
when it arrived in Melbourne on April 5th, and an ambulance
took him to the Hospital and they wired me. . . .
Georgie Paterson.
It is established by the evidence given above that Mr.
J. Edgar Paterson was taken ill quite suddenly on board ship,
when on his way to Melbourne, between 10 and 11 a.m. on
Friday, April 4, 1913 (Victoria time), that he became uncon-
scious at once and died in hospital in Melbourne on April 7,
1913. By Greenwich mean time, therefore, he was taken ill
between midnight and 1 a.m. (approximately) on April 4,
1913, and he had been unconscious about twenty hours when
^ " Standard time " in Victoria is ten hours in advance of Greenwich
mean time.
234 Journal of Society for PsycJncal Research. Nov. -Dec, 1916.
Miss Paterson saw the apparition of him between 7 p.m. and
9.30 p.m. on that day.
Upon the evidence of this and the many other recorded
cases of a similar kind most investigators will be ready to
assume that " between deaths and apparitions of the dying
person a connexion exists which is not due to chance alone." ^
In the present instance, the sudden and unexpected nature
of Mr. Paterson's illness precludes the idea that anxiety on
his behalf in Miss Paterson's mind could have been a contri-
butory cause of her experience. Another peculiarity worth
noting is the great distance which intervened between the
dying man and his sister, almost the greatest distance terres-
trially possible. We thus find it again cogently demonstrated
that whatever the means of communication in such cases may
be, it is one which distance does not invalidate.
In Human Personality, Vol. I., p. 245 ff., Myers discusses
at some length whether apparitions of this kind can always
be explained by " telepathy pure and simple," or whether
we must not in some cases assume an actual " modification
of space " caused by what he calls a " psychorrhagic " faculty
on the part of the agent ; for the details of the argument
readers must turn to Myers's book. In the particular instance
under discussion it seems likely that the cause of Miss Paterson's
vision was a telepathic impression received by her mind from
the mind of her brother and externalised by the same mental
mechanism which can externalise, as an hallucination, sugges-
tions given in hypnotic trance.
As to whether this impression wa's received at the moment
of the hallucination, or whether it had been received earlier
—
perhaps at the first moment of Mr. Paterson's seizure—and had
lain dormant in the percipient's mind, waiting an opportunity
to rise into consciousness, we have no means of determining.
One point may be noted : Miss Paterson has said that she saw
the figure of her brother lying prone with his clothes on, and
^ Since Mr. Paterson did not die until two days after Miss Paterson's vision,
the case cannot be reckoned as a " death-coincidence " according to the
definition given in the Report on the Census of Hallucinations, Proc, S.P.R.,
Vol. X., p. 208, but this circum.stance has onlj' a .statistical import and
does not detract from the psychical interest of the case.
Nov. -Dec, 1910. 2:35
it appears, as stated by Mrs. J. Edgar Paterson in her letter of
June 24, 1913 (see above), that Mr. Paterson was " up and
dressed " when he was taken il], so that in its main features
Miss Paterson's vision seems to have reproduced a scene which
actually occurred. The scene is depicted rather as it might
appear to a spectator than from the standpoint of Mr. Paterson
himself, from whom it is suggested that the impression came.
But this should perhaps be explained by supposing that the
actual mise en scene in such a case is pro\'ided by the drama-
tising instinct of the percipient's n^ind.
jVIiss Paterson informs us that, so far as she is aware, she
has never had any other similar experience.
II.
L. 1208.
We have received the following case of what seems to be a
telepathic impression from Mr. L. C. Powles, a member of
the Society. The percipient is Mr. James W. Sharpe, late
Fellow of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Mr. Powles's statement of the case is as follows :
The Highlands, Rye, Sussex, July 2, 1916.
On Aug. 4, 1913, I had been invited by a friend; Miss B.,
living in the neighbouring town, some three miles off, to meet
Mr. James W. Sharpe. On the afternoon of that day, therefore,
I rode over to her house, leaving my wife, who was not well
enough to accompany me, resting by herself.
At tea-time we talked, I think, entirely upon psychical matters,
and I remember asking Mr. Sharpe if he saw '
auras '
round people,
and, if so, what he saw round me. At first he saw nothing,
but later he said :
" You asked me to tell you ; 1 do now see
something." He saw two things behind me. (1 now refer to
my notes made the same evening on my return.) " One, a dark,
not inimical,^ half-human creature, with knotted hands placed
upon my shoulders." This he said was " symbolical of illness
near at hand—a warning."
Then appeared the " faint slight figure of a young woman
with oval face, etc." (here follow some details which very well
apply to my wife's appearance). She " tried to avert the illness."
When I came home towards six o'clock my wife told me she
1 For comment on this woid, see below.
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov. -Dec, 1916.
had been very anxious about my l)eing out in the cold wind ;
also—and this is the important part of the case—she had been
quite obsessed by a somewhat grotesque story of a man dressed
up as a gorilla who comes up behind the master of the house and
strangles him with his hands.
L. C. POWLES.
We have also received a statement from Mrs. Powles, as
follows :
July 2, 1916.
I remember perfectly my husband going over to tea on Aug. 4,
1913, at our friend's house, Miss B.'s, and ray being unable to
go with him that day.
I was anxious about him, as he had only recently recovered
from pneumonia, and there was a very cold wind. To pass
the time and divert my thoughts I took up the Strand Magazine,
and became absorbed in a very horrible story of a man disguised
as a gorilla who came behind his enemy and broke his neck
with his powerful hands.
I have always had a great horror of gorillas from childhood,
and far-fetched as it was, I was made very nervous and oppressed
by the story and longed for my husband's return. Immediately
he came, I told him of the story and the absurdly nervous
state it had left me in. This interested him extremely, and he then
told me something of Mr. Sharpe's vision. He did not at the
time describe it quite fully for fear of alarming me, and par-
ticularly did not mention that Mr. Sharpe thought it might be
a Health-warning. Isabel G. Powles.
It will be observed that these two statements were written
on July 2, 1916, nearly three years after the occurrence of
the incident to which they refer. Mr. Powles's statement,
however, is based on notes made Avithin a few hours of this
incident, and we have been able to obtain further corroborative
evidence in the form of a statement by Miss B.^ who was
pre,sent when the percipient, Mr. Sharpe, described his impres-
sions, and also a letter written by Mr. Powles to Miss B.
on the day after the incident occurred.
Miss B.'s statement, contained in a letter to Mr. Powles,
^ This lady's name and address are known to us, but are withheld here
at her request
Nov. -Dec, 1916. Cases. 237
which was written in reply to his enquiry whether she remem-
bered Mr. Sharpe's '
vision,'—is as follows :
July 27, 1916.
Certainly I remember Mr. Sharpe's " vision " on the 4th of
August, 1913, and that you wi'ote to me on the following day
giving me what you felt to be an explanation of it.
I remember that Mr. Sharpe said he seemed to see a non-human
creature with his knotted hands on your shoulders, and that
is the expression you used in your letter of the 5th of August,
1913, ... I remember that Mr. Sharpe said it might be a health-
warning, and that he also said he saw a young, oval-faced woman
trying—as you say—to avert this monster's apparently evil intent.
I enclose your letter to me of the 5th of August, 1913 (which I
happened to keep), which gives the account of how Mrs. Powles
read the story in the Strand Magazine. M. B.
Letter from Mr. Poivles to Miss B.
The Highlands, Rye, Sussex, August 5, 1913.
With regard to the visions Mr. Sharp[e] saw behind me yester-
day . . .
My wife was thinking much about my health—hoping I was
not getting tired or sitting in draughts, but—and this is still
more curious—she was also reading in the " Strand " for July
a horrible story about a man dressed as a gorilla who comes
behind the master of the house and breaks his neck with his
hands in the dark. This story quite oppressed her and might
easily account for the " dark, non-human, creature behind me
with his knotted hands on my shoulder." ... L. C. PowLES.
Mr. Powles has informed us that in reply to an enquiry
addressed to Mr. Sharpe, asking whether he remembered the
incident described above, Mr. Sharpe wrote that
he does not remember the actual vision, but that by " inimical
"
(see above, p. 235) he meant a symbolical Health warning or
warning of trouble to come, but not activelv hostile.
The " health-warning "—Mr. Powles tells us
—" has not
proved to be veridical, as I have not been ill at all since,
and no disaster has happened."
Since Mr. Sharpe does not clearly remember his " vision
"
and the details of it are well attested by the evidence of
Miss B. and by Mr, Powles's letter of August 5, 1913, we
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov. -Dec, 1916.
have not thought it necessary to get any further statement
from Mr. Sharpe. It should be noted, however, that he himself
interprets the vision as a symbolic and presumably subjective
representation of an impression concerning Mr. Powles's health ;
but the coincidence between the form assumed by this sym-
bolic image and Mrs. Powles's mental pre-occupation at the
time, and her fears about her husband, is curious, and suggests
a telepathic origin for the vision.
EEVIEW.
Tlie Quest for Bean Bridgman Conner. By Anthony J. Philpott.
W. Heinemann, London.
Those who have read my paper on the psychology of Mrs.
Piper's Trance Phenomena in Proceedings, Vol. XXVIII., may
possibly remember that more than once, but especially on p. 112,
the futile search in Mexico for a boy officially reported dead, but
believed by his relatives to be still alive, is referred to. Mr.
Philpott's book gives a lively and interesting account of the
case by one of those who conducted the search and concluded
with good reason that the boy, or rather young man, was really
dead. I read the book with interest, because I had previously
seen no written record of the case. My knowledge of it was
confined to unannotated references to it in some of Mrs. Piper's
sittings, and rather vague recollections of what Hodgson had
told me about it and especially about the failure of Mrs. Piper's
part in it. The case is an instructive one, as showing how
little confidence can be placed in the statements of mediums
pressed into a quest of this kind, and it may be worth giving a
brief account of the story as related by Mr. Philpott.
Conner was a young citizen of the United States who went
to the city of Mexico to work as electrician in a theatre, but
was shortly after going there taken ill with typhoid fever and
removed to the American hospital, where he died in the spring of
1895. An official account of his death and burial was sent
by the American Consul-General to his father in Vermont. A
few months later his father had a vivid dream in which his,
son appeared to him and said he was not dead, but alive, and
held a captive in Mexico. This confirmed certain vague doubts
and suspicions entertained, for reasons too long to enter into here,
by the young man's friends. Through the advice of the Rev,
Nov.-Dec, 1916. Review. 239
M. J. Savage, they consulted Hodgson, and through him Mrs.
Piper. Mrs. Piper's controls confirmed the view that Conner
was alive. " She claimed," says Mr. Philpott, " that he had
been taken from the hospital at night by the '
South road '
and
was being held for ransom or some other dark purpose." The
controls affirmed that the body of another patient who had died
was dressed in his clothes and buried as Conner.
Thus fortified in their suspicions, Conner's friends decided that a
Mr. Dodge, who knew him well, should go to Mexico to look
for him. Mr. Dodge was not reassured by his enquiries, but
ultimately having obtained leave to have the body, which had
now been buried for about a year, exhumed, he " was pretty
well convinced at the time that " it was that of Conner. Mrs.
Piper's controls continued to assert, on the contrary, that he
had been taken along a South road,—to a country house said
Phinuit, to Tuxedo said G.P. Unfortunately, when Mr. Dodge
returned home, experts in Vermont concluded that teeth and
hair taken from the skull of the buried body were not those of
Conner. The grounds on which they formed this conclusion
were judged by Mr. Philpott, who discussed the matter with
them later, to be insufficient : but their opinions naturally carried
great weight at the time, and were held to confirm in general
the statements of Mrs. Piper's controls.
Mrs. Piper was ill and unable to give sittings during a great
part of 1896. When she resumed in October of that year Mr.
Dodge had more than one sitting with her, in the course of
which she gave a lurid account of Conner's condition at or near
Puebla (Puebla being now substituted for Tuxedo) in some sort
of lunatic asylum described with some detail. Mr. Dodge and
a friend started again in search, and while they were searching
directions given in the Piper trance were telegraphed to them.
The controls professed exact knowledge of their whereabouts
as well as of that of Conner, and described them sometimes
as near or actually in the building where he was confined, and
so forth ; but the indications given were always incorrect or
inadequate, and they returned puzzled and disajapointed.
In the meanwhile the newsjaapers—or rather a newspaper, the
Boston Globe—took the matter up, and early in 1897, after Mr-
Dodge's return, sent Mr. Philpott to carry on the quest. Mr.
Philpott ultimately satisfied himself that the descriptions given
were misleading ; that it was impossible that Conner could be
^40 Joarnal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov. -Dec, 1916.
in confinement as described without the knowledge of the Mexican
authorities, by whom at that time the reins of government were
firmly held ;
and, moreover, that there could have been no
motive for kidnapping him. He also found the nurse, previously
lost sight of, who had actually seen Conner die, and, in fine,
practically set the whole question at rest.
As to Mrs. Piper, what apparently happened was that the
enquiry set her subliminal imagination to work. She got some
things right according to the ideas of Mr. Dodge—perhaps in
part by thought-transference from him, and once started on the
wrong line embroidered on it further. According to Mr. Philpott
there was at least one remarkable incident, which he attribi;tes
to thought-transference. A certain landscape view as seen from
a particular identifiable spot at Puebla was described by the
controls vividly and accurately. This was after the second return
of Mr. Dodge, who had seen the view, and in his presence. The
correspondence of the description with the original was verified
by Mr. Philpott. Certainly, as related, this would seem to have
been a remarkable instance of telepathy from the sitter. I do
not remember hearing from Hodgson that anything so striking
had occurred. Perhaps he had not heard of the impression it
produced on Mr. Philpott.
Mr. Philpott's story of his quest is well and interestingly told,
and gives the impression of sincerity. His discussion of psychical
research, however, is somewhat shallow, and combines a too
ready credulity with a want of understanding of the attitude
of those engaged in work on the subject. In particular, I think
he misunderstands the attitude of Hodgson. This is not unnatural,
for Hodgson, who had a great dislike to anything concerning Mrs.
Piper getting into the newspapers, and therefore disapproved
of Mr. Philpott's mission, evidently avoided seeing him or giving
him a chance of sitting with Mrs. Piper before he went, and
probably did not readily accept his account of his quest after-
wards. Prejudice thus apparently exhibited by Hodgson may
well have engendered prejudice on Mr. Philpott's side, and at
any rate deprived him of the opportunity of judging Hodgson
and his methods and beliefs at first hand. Mr. Philpott, I am
glad to observe, implies that they made it up later, and in the
end I do not think they substantially difi;ered about the case.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XVIL
1915 —1916
A.
Accounts of Receipts and Expenditure. See Society for Psychical
Research.
American Society for Psychical Research - - - - - - 16
Journal of - 16, 82, 147-148, 162
" Angels, The, at Mons " 95, 106, 156
Animals, " Thinking." See " Thinking " Animals, Experiments with.
Annalen der Natur- und Cultur-Philosophie . . . . . 8
Anne, E. Edward, Case confirmed by - - - - - • 122
Anne, Mrs. E. Edward, Case confirmed by 121
Anne, Ernest L. S., Case confirmed by 120-121
Anne, Miss Ernestine, Case contributed by 118
Apparitions at or near the time of Death ----- 204. 2.30
Archives de Psychologie 162-164,183-184
Automatic Writings 207-208
Automatism. Sensory. See An Icelandic Seer.
Automatist, A New 178
Auto-suggested Visions --------- 43
B.
B., Fraulein von. See Wasielewski, W. von.
B., Miss, Case confirmed by - - - 237
iv Index to Vol. XVII.
Balfour, The Right Hon. Gerald W.—
The Ear of Dionysius - - - - - - - - - 219
So7ne Recen t Scripts affording Evidence of Personal Survival - 25
Barrett, iSir W. F., F.R.S., Investigation of a Haunted House in
Worcestershire ---------- 34
Baxter, Mrs., Case contributed by 204
Bayer, Dr., Case confirmed by- - - - - - - -11-12
Bayfield, Miss Cyrille, Cases confirmed by 138, 139
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., Some Recent Cases of Premonition and Tele-
pathy 106, 126
Beilby, Sir George, Case reported by - - 230
B6raud, Marthe - - - - 82, 184
Theories, Physical Secretion 84
Bjarnarson, Eev. Halldor, Evidence contributed by - - - 64, 65, 67
Bjarnarson, Karl H., Case confirmed by 60
Bjarnason, Professor Ag6st, Report on an Icelandic Seer - - - 53, 78
Bj6rnsd6ttir, Mrs. Gudr6n, Evidence contributed and collected
by - . - 56, 63, 64, 66-68
British College of Psychic Science 219-220
Buscarlet, Mme., Premonitory dream 145
C.
C, Ethel, Evidence contributed by 38-39
" C. Eva." See Beraud, Marthe.
Case, A Poltergeist 85
Cases
—
"L."- - - - - - - 2.118.204,210,212,230,235
See also Bayfield, Rev. M. A.
Chenoweth, Mrs.. Sittings with - - 147-148
Clairvoyance, Supposed -------- 8, 53, 78
,, Experiments in - 8, 75-76
Clairvoyance and Telepathy, Distinction between - - - 9-10, 78
Claparede, Professor, On Marthe B6raud 184
Clinic, Medico-Psychological, London ------ 25
Combined Index to Proceedings and .Journal 23
Conner, Dean Bridgman, The Quest for. Review of - - - - 238
Constable, P. C, Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena - - 195
Correspondence - - 123, 170
CouncO, Elections, Meetings, etc. See Society for Psychical Research.
Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type ------ 19
Dahlmann, J. J., Case confirmed by - - 69-70
Davies, B., Case reported by 210
Index to Vol. XVII. V
Delacroix, Professor H., on Mysticism 183-184
Dionysius, The Ear of 219
Dog, A " Thinking " 99, 123-124
" Dreaming Joe." See Icelandic Seer.
Dream-personalities, On the identification of - 179-183, 201-202, 202-203
Dreams - - - 49-51, 128, 133-134, 145, 179-180, 181-182, 210, 212
Dreams, Dramatic 178
Dreams and Psychology 201
E.
E., Mrs., Evidence contributed by 37-38
Ecstasy, Religious. See Mysticism.
Elberfeld horses. See Thinking Animals.
Endowment Fund. See Society for Psychical Research.
" Esmond, Captain L. T.," Cases conlirmed by 128, 129, 131-132, 135
Ewen, Mrs., Case confirmed by - 211, 212
Experiments
—
Appeal for Subjects --------- 32
Clairvoyance 8, 75-76
Telepathy - - - - - - 22-23, 32, 152, 156-157, 160
F.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, Sittings with Miss S. Tomczyk - - - 24, 28
War work 22, 153
Finnbogason, Gudm., Ph.D., Evidence contributed by - - - 72-73
Flournoy, Professor Th.
—
Case recorded by 145
Beraud, Marthe 184
Mystic, A Modern 162-164, 183
Francis, Mrs. George, Case confii-med by 232
Friend, E. W., Appointment to the American Society for Psychical
Research -------- 16
Obituary - - 157,166,207-208
Friend, Mrs. E. W., Automatic Writings 207-208
Frostick, J. A., Report on a " thinking " dog 99-104
Fry, Miss Agnes, Case reported by - - 2
Fuller-Maitland, Edward, Case confinued by 213
Fuller-Maitland, Mrs. Edward, Case contributed by - - - - 212
G.
Gill, Mrs., Case confirmed by ------- - 4-5
GiU, Raymond, Case confirmed by ------ - 5-6
Gill, Miss Winifred, Case contributed by - - - - - 2
Girdlestone, F. Keimeth, An Experiment in Suggestion - - - 220
vi Index to Vol. XVIt.
" Griinbaum, Mr.," Experiences of 43
" Griinbaum, Mrs.," Telepathic Impressions . . . 43, 44^ 49-52
" Guessing,'''' A Series of Experiments in 152
Gunnlaugsson, J6hann, Evidence contributed by - - - - 59
H.
Hallucinations, Sensory
—
Auditory 4, 7, 44-45, 50, 51, 118
Collective 118
Self-induced ---------- 43
Subjective - - - -
43
Telepathic 2,43-46,204,230
Haunted House, Investigation of a 34
Haunts
—
Apparitions 34, 37, 42
Sounds 34-42
Touches 35, 37, 39
" Hazell, Ernest," Case confirmed by 93
" Hazell," Mrs., Case reported by 85
Account of 86-92
Hill, J. Arthur, " Influences " and Survival 170
Hyperaesthesia, Experiments suggested ------ 32
Hjrpnotism, Experiments suggested ------- 32
„ An Experiment in Suggestion 220
Hyslop, Professor J. H.
—
On Miss VerraU's History of Marthe Beraud - - . - 82
,, Some Recent Experiments in Telepathy ----- 160
Report on sittings with Mrs. Chenoweth - - . - 147-148
I.
Icelandic Seer, An - - - - 53, 78
Index, Combined, to the Proceedings and Journal . . . . 23
" Influences " and Survival 170
J-
Jacks, Dr. L. P., Dramatic Dreams 178
Dr. F. C. S. Schiller on - - 201
Reply to - 202
" Jackson, Beatrice." See Poltergeist Case.
" Jackson, Mrs.," Evidence contributed by 94-95
Jackson, W. K.," Case confirmed by 93
James, Professor William, Communications purporting to come
from 148,207-208
Johannesson, Bj. Job., Case confirmed by ----- - 60
Index to Vol. XVII. vii
Johnson, Miss Alice
—
Election as Hon. Member -----
Further Report on Mr. " C4riinbaum's " experiences
Pension --------
Resignation as Editor and Research Officer
Services rendered to the Society, on the
Johnson, Rev. Joseph, Case confirmed by -
Jdnasson, Andalsteinn, Evidence contributed by
Jonathansdottir, Mrs. Anna, Case contirmed by
Jones, Sir Lawrence, Case reported by - - -
„ Case confirmed by -
Jonsson, Johannes. See Dreaming .Joe.
Jonsson, Kristjan, Case confirmed by - - -
Jonsson, Sveinn, Case confirmed by -
Josefsson, Vigfiis, Case confirmed by _ . -
Jumieges, Ruined Abbey of, Auditory hallucination in
K.
King's College, University of London, Lectures on Psychical Research
at 25,157
" Knox, R. E.," Cases confirmed by 128, 129, 136
Konig, Professor Edmund, Evidence contributed by - - - 11-12
L.
L., Dorothy, Evidence contributed by 36-37
" Lambert, J. J.," Case confirmed by 93
Larken, E. P., Case reported by 118
Latham, Dr. H., Evidence contributed by - - - - 206-207
Legacy to the Society --------- 218
Librarian, Appointment of -------- 219
Library, Contribution to 95-96
Library, Supplementary Catalogue gg
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival - 194
M.
Maeterlinck, M., The Unknoivn Guest, by, Review of - - - - 14
Malpress, Mrs., Case confirmed by - - 205
Mata, Prophecies of 199-200
M'Dougall, W., F.R.S., Medical war-work 22, 153-154
McGibbon, W. S., Experiments with a " thinking " dog - - 100-104
Medico-Psychological Clinic, London 25
Meetings. See Society for Psychical Research.
Members and Associates, etc. See Society for Psychical Research.
219
43
218-219
218, 219
218
232
- 73-74
71
212
213
72
62
75
118
Vlll Index to Vol. XVII.
Mexico, Case of boy lost in. See Conner, Dean Bridgman.
Mijatovich, Chedomille, Prophecy recorded by l'J9
Murray, Professor Gilbert
—
Election as President --------- ly^ 151
Experiments in Thought-transference 157
Presidential Addi'ess - - -
99^ I57
Mysticism 162-164, 183-184
N.
Newton, Miss I., Appointment as Librarian 219
Note on English Sittings with Miss Tomczyk - - . - . 28
„ iSome recent Experiments in Telepathy - . . .
I6O
Notes on Current Periodicals - - - - - 147, 162, 183, 207
0.
Obituary
—
Friend, E. W. 157, 166, 207-208
Verrall, Mrs. A. W. - - - - - ^ - - 193, 218
Ochorowicz, Dr. J., Experiments with Miss IS. Tomczyk 24, 28, 30, 31
P.
Parker, Norman, In Memoriam—E. W. Friend - - - - - 166
Paterson, Mrs. J. Edgar, Evidence contributed by - - - - 233
Paterson, Miss Mary M., Case contributed by 230
Patience Worth, Note on 208
Phillips, B. E., Case confirmed by - - - ' - - - - 210
PhiUips, Mrs. B. E., Case contributed by - : - - - - 210
Philpott, Anthony J., The Quest for Dean Bridgman Conner, Review of 238
Piddington, J. G., Oross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type - - - 19
Piper, Mrs., On the Trance Phenomena of 23, 25, 160, 170-171, 195, 238-240
Poltergeist Case, A 85-95
Phenomena 28, 31, 85-95
Powles, L. C, Case confirmed by 214
,, Case contributed by ------ - 235
Powles, Mrs., Case confirmed by 236
Pownall, Mrs. G. H., Telepathic and premonitory experiences - 126-147
Premonition, Some Recent Cases of - - - - - - 106, 126
Premonitions
—
Dreams 128, 145
Impressions 129-139
Presidential Addresses
—
Murray, Professor Gilbert 99, 157
Schiller, Dr. F. C. S. 28
Presidents of the Society, Election of 19, 151
Index to Vol. XVII. IX
Prevision and Survival, Recent Evidence about ----- 194
Prince, Dr. Morton, Paper read by ------ - 24, 28
,, The Unconscious, Reference to - - - - 202
Prophecies, War 185, 199
Psychical Research, Lectures on, at King's College, University of
London - 25, 157
Psyclwlogie, Archives de 162-164, 183-184
Psychology, Dreams and --------- 201
Psychology of Mrs. Pi-pers Trance Phenomena 23, 25, 160, 170-171, 195, 238
Psycho-Therapy
—
Lord Knutsford's Hospital for Soldiers ----- 22
London Medico-Psychological Clinic ------ 25
Suggestion, An Experiment in ------ - 220
Q.
Quest, The, for Dean Bridgman Conner, Review of - - - - 238
R.
Reade, H. V., Contribution to the Library
Reinold, Commander B. E., R.N., Case confirmed by
Reviews --------
" Roberts, Mrs.," Case contributed by
" Russian Troops in England " -
S.
S., F. C. S. See Schiller, F. C. S.
Salter, Mrs. W. H.—
" Angels at Mons," Enquiry concerning the - - - . 106
Appointment as Editor and Hon. Research Officer - - - 219
Automatist, A New, Report on - - - - - - - 178
Beraud, Marthe, History of, Reply to Dr. Hysloji on - - - 82
Clairvoyance, On a Supposed Case of - - - - - - 8-14
Evidence collected by g
Icelandic Seer, An, Comments on 53-54, 56, 57. 58, 70-71. 75-76, 78-82
Lectures at King's College, University of London - - - 25, 157
Notes on Current Periodicals ------ 147-148
Report on A New Automatist 178
,, Expemnents in Thought-transference - - 23, 28. 160
Schiller, F. C. S.— .
'
Dreams and Psychology 201
Notes on Current Periodicals - - - - - 162, 183, 207
Prophecies, War 135, 199
Prophecy, Serbian - - - - 199
" Thinking " Dog, A, On 123-124
Unknown Guest, The, by M. Maeterlinck, Review of - - -
14
- 95-96
139
14, 174, 238
34
155
X Index to Vol. XVII.
Schrenck-Notzing, Dr. von, Experiments with Miss Tomczyk - - 30
„ „ Theories regarding Marthe Beraud - - 83, 84
Secretion, Physical ---------- 84
Serbian Prophecy 199
Sharpe, J. W., Telepathic Impression 235, 237
" Shaw, T. A.," Evidence contributed by 93
" Shaw, Mrs. T. A.," Case confirmed by 94
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
Psiiclwlogy of Mrs. Piper''s Trance Phenomena - - - 23,25,160
F. C. Constable on 195
J. Arthur Hill on 170-171
Quest for Dean Bridgman Conner, The, by A. J. Philpott, Review of 238
Sivertsen, Dr. S. P., Evidence recorded by - - - - 57,
58-59, 60-61, 62, 68-69, 71-72
Society for Psychical Research
—
Accounts
—
Endowment Fund 27, 159
Receipts and Exijenditure 26-27, 158-159
Activities of. Effect of the War upon - - - - 22. 98. 153-154
Additional Ofifice Room 22-23
Appointments
—
Editor and Hon. Research OfScer 219
Librarian 219
Council and Officers, Elections ... - .18.19,150,151,219
,, Meetings - - 2, 18-19. 98. 106, L50. 151, 177, 194, 218
„ Reports for the years 1914, 1915 - - - 18, 19, 150, 152
Endowment Fund 22, 27, 153, 159
Income, Effect of the War upon 21-22, 153
Legacy 218
Meetings
—
Annual General 17-18, 150
General 19, 99, 152
Private —for Members and Associates only - 106, 178, 194, 219
Members and Associates, Honorary, Corresponding and Ordinary,
Elections of 2, 17, 19, 98, 105, 149-150, 177. 194, 217-218, 219
Membership, Effect of the War upon - - - - 19-21, 152-153
President, Election of 19, 151
Reports for the years 1914 and 1915 19, 152
Staff, Changes in --------- 219
Spiritistic Phenomena and Subconscious Activities - - - - 28
Sturgeon, M., Case confirmed by 211
Subconscious Activities, Spiritistic Phenomena, and . . . - 28
Suggestion. An Experiment in ------- - 220
Survival, " Influences " and - 170
Survival, Recent Evidence about Prevision and 194
Survival, Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence of - . - 25
Index to Vol. XVII. xi
T.
Tausch, Professor, Communications purporting to come from (through
Mrs. Chenoiveth) 147-148
Telekinesis
—
Cases of 24, 28-31
Telepathy, Experimental 23, 28, 32, 152, 156-157, 160
See also Clairvoyance, Supposed.
Telepathy, Spontaneous
—
Dreams - 49-51, 133-134, 210, 212
Hallucinations 2, 43-46, 204, 230
Impressions - 235
" Thinking " Animals, Experiments with
—
Dog (New Zealand, " Darkie ") 99-104. 123-124
., (Mannheim) 99. lOO, 124
Horses (Elberfeld) - - - 24. 99, 100
Thought-transference. See Telepathy.
Tillyard, Aelfrida, Review of The Yoga-System of Patanjali - - 174
Tipping, Misses K. and L., Experiments in Thought-transference 23, 160
Tomczyk, Miss Stanislawa
—
English Sittings with 24-25, 28-31
Committee of Investigation 24
Procedure 28-29
Phenomena, Description of 28, 29-30
Warsaw, Experiments in - - - 24, 28, 30
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper, Psychology of - 23, 25, 170-171, 195
" Communicators," Their relation to Mrs. Piper - - - 195-199
U.
Unknown Guest, The, by M. Maeterlinck, Review of - - - - 14
Unpopular Review, Notes on 207-208
V.
v., H. de G. See Verrall, Miss H. de G.
" Ve, Cecile," A Modem Mystic 162-164, 183
Verrall, Mrs. A. W.
—
" Guessing," A Series of Experiments in - - - - - 152
Legacy to the Society 218
Obituary of 193, 218
Verrall, Miss H. de G.—
See Salter, Mrs. W. H.
Vilhjalmssoi), Gudm., Evidence contributed by - - - . - 81
Visions ----- 43, 154, 199, 230
See also " Angels at Mons " and An Icelandic Seer."
xii Index to Vol. XVII.
W.
War, The European
—
Angels at Mons " - - - - - - - - 95, 106, 156
Cases connected with --------154, 204, 210
Effect of, on the activities, income, and membership of the
Society - - - - - - - 19-22, 98, 152-154
Prophecies - - - - - - - - - 185, 199
Psycho-Therapeutic Hospital for Soldiers 22
" Russian Trooj^s in England " - - - - - - 155
Wasielewski, W. von. Experiments in Clairvoyance and Telepathy - 8-14
White, Mrs. Grenfell, Case contributed by - - - - _ - 134
White, W. Grenfell, Case confirmed by - 134
Wilson, Mrs. Stuart, Experiments in telepathy and automatic
writing - . - 157, 178
Woods, Professor J. H., Translation from the Sanski'it of The Yoga-
Sii/.item. of Patanjali, Heview of - - - - - - - 174
Woolley, V. J., M.D.—
A uto-Suggested Visions as illustrating Dream Formation - - 43
Reviews ----------- 24
War-hospitals, work in - - - 145
Worcestershire, Haunted House in ------ - 34
Y,
Yoga-Systein, The, of Patanjali, Translated from the Sanskrit by
Professor J. H. Woods, Review of 174
Yost, C. S., Patience Worth 208
FOR NOTICE OF MEETING, SEE FIRST PAGE.
•M JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
F'or Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only.
NO. CCCXV.—VOL. XVII.—JANUARY, 191 5.
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
All rights reserved.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
NOTICES.
Communications for the Editor to be addressed to—
Miss Alice Johnson, Society for Psychical Research,
20 Hanover Square, London, "W.
Members are invited to send contributions as to facts arising within their
own observation, or critical discussion of the results already obtained by
the Society.
Subscriptions for 1915.
Subscriptions for 1915 are now due. Members and Associates are
REQUESTED TO SEND THEM TO THE TREASURER, H. ARTHUR SmITH, EsQ.,
7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W,, at their early con-
venience. The Subscription of Members is Two Guineas ; that of
Associates is One Guinea.
Cheques mat be Crossed "London County and Westminster Bank,
Temple Bar Branch."
With regard to the Subscriptions of American Members, see Notice on
third page of cover.
Information relating to any branch of the Society's work may be sent
to the Honorary Secretaries, or to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Members and Associates are requested to send notice of any change
of name or address to the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research,
20 Hanover Square, London, W. .
Applications for Membership and for printed documents should be
addressed to the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover
Square, London, W.
Subscriptions are payable to the Hon. Treasurer, H. Arthur Smith, Esq.,
7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W. Article 18 is as follows :
—
"All subscriptions shall become payable upon the election of the Member or
Associate, and subsequently on the 1st day of January in each year ; provided that in
case any Member or Associate is elected on or after the Ist day of October, his sub-
scription shall be accepted as for the next following year."
Forma for the regular payment of subscriptions through a banker may
be had on application.
A form of bequest can be had on application to the Secretary, Society
for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday, when
they close at 1.30 p.m.
NOTICES.
ANNUAL GENEEAL MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting (for Business Purposes only) of the
Members of the Society will be held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W.,
on Friday, January 29th, 1915, at 3.30 p.m.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council will be held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W.,
ou Friday, January 29th, 1915, immediately after the Annual Business
Meeting.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society will be held in The Eobert Barnes
Hall, of the Royal Society of Medicine, 1 Wimpole Street, London, W., on
Friday, January 29th, 1915, at 5 p.m., when a paper entitled
"CROSS-CORRESPONDENCES OF A GALLIC TYPE"
will be read by
Mr. J. G. Piddington.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the
door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an invitation card
signed by a Member or Associate.
NOTICE TO MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY RESIDING IN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Members and Associates living in America are requested to pay their
subscriptions, as they become due, to the Society's Agent, the W. B. Clarke
Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
The subscription of Members is Ten dollars annually, or a single payment
of One hundred dollars ; the subscription of Associates is Five dollars
annually, or a single payment of Fifty dollars. These subscriptions are due
immediately on election and subsequently on the first day of January in
each year. Orders for extra copies of publications on the special terms allowed
to Members and Associates should also be sent by American Members
and Associates to the W. B. Clarke Co., to whom payments for the same
should be made in advance. All remittances to the W. B. Clarke Co. should
be made either by cheque on Baltimore, Boston, Philadelphia, or New York,
or by Express or Post Office Money Order ;
otherwise, a collection charge of
from 10 oents to 40 cents will be made.
Bound in cloth. Demy 8vo, 325-l-viii pp., with Index, Price 9s. net.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESSES
TO THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
1882—1911
BY
Henry Sidgwick, Balfour Stewart, Arthur J. Balfour,
William James, Sir William Crookes, F. W. H. Myers,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir William Barrett, Charles Richet,
. Gerald W. Balfour, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, H. Arthur
Smith, and Andrew Lang
Members and Associates can obtain copies of the above at the reduced
price of 5s. net, inclusive of postage, on application to the Secretary, S.P.R.,
20 Hanover Square, London, W. The application must be accompanied by
a remittance.
THE JOURNAL.
The Journal can be obtained, bound in cloth, as under, by Members and
Associates i
—
Vol. I. (Nos. 1- 18) pp. 488 . . . IDs. 6d.
II. (Nos. 19- 35) pp. 520 . . 10s. 6d.
f >
III. (Nos. 36- 55) pp. 360 . 7s. 6d.
) )
IV. (Nos. 56- 75) pp. 348 . 7s. 6d.
) y
V. (Nos. 76--
95) pp. 352 . 7s. 6d.
1
1
VI. (Nos. 96--115) pp. 376 . , 7s. 6d.
VII. (Noa. 116--134) pp. 340 . 7s. 6d.
) t
VIII. (Nos. 135--154) pp. 332 . 7s. 6d.
»> IX. (Nos. 155--174) pp. 340 . 7s. 6d.
99 X. (Nos. 175--194) pp. 320 . 7s. 6d.
99 XI. (Nos. 195--214) pp. 324 . 7s. 6d.
5J XII. (Nos. 215--234) pp. 348 . 7s. 6d.
»» XIII. (Nos. 235--264) pp. 336 . 7s. 6d.
99 XIV. (Nos. 255--274) pp. 404 . 7s. 6d.
XV. (Nos. 275--294) pp. 344 . 7s. 6d.
The price of separate Numbers is as follows :
—
Nos. 1-35, 9d. each; Nos. 114, (Nov., 1894), and 118, (Mar. and April, 1895),
Is. each ; other Nos., 6d. each.
THE PROCEEDINGS.
The PROOEEDINOS can be obtained, bound in cloth, as under, by Members
and Associates :
—
Vol. I. (Parts I.—IV.) . pp. 336 5s.
II. ( )> v.—VII.) .... 340 5s.
„ III. ( >» VIII.—IX. > . . ' . 500 5s.
„ IV. ( X.—XI.) .... 605 4s.
V. ( >> XII.—XIV.) .... 606 5s.
„ VI. ( >» XV.—XVII.). . 707 5s.
„ VII. ( »
J
XVIII.—XX.) 442 4s.
„ v^iii. ( XXL—XXIII.) . 647 5s~.
„ IX. ( )> XXIV.—XXV.) . 407 4s.
X. ( )f XXVI.) 466 4s.
„ XI. ( ») XXVII.—XXIX.) . 637. 5s.
„ XII. ( >> XXX.—XXXI. and Appendix) 391 4s.
„ XIII. ( )) XXXII.—XXXIII.) 654 6s.
„ XIV. ( »> XXXIV.—XXXV.) 436 58.
» XV, ( ) J
XXXVI.—XL.) . 522 6s.
„ XVI. ( XLL) 650 6s.
„ XVII. ( >» XLIL—XLV.) . . . 468 6s. 3d.
„ XVIII. ( >f
XLVL—XLIX.) . . . 548 7s.
„ XIX. ( n L.—LII.) .... 508 6s. 6d.
XX. ( J) LIII.) 444 6s.
„ XXI. ( )
»
LIV.—LVI.) . . . . 584 6s.
„ XXII. ( jj LVIL) . . . . 446 6s.
„ XXIII. ( )> LVIIL—LIX.) . 602 7s.
„ XXIV. ( »» LX.-LXL) .... 758 7s.
„ XXV. ( )j LXIL—LXIV.) . 540 6s.
„ XXVI. ( >) LXV.—LXVII.) . 544 6s.
In paper. Part LXVIII. . . . 190 2s.
J) J 5
LXIX 224 2s.
Any of the Parts can be purchased separately.
Cloth covers for binding Vol. XXVI. of the Proceedings, and Vol. XV. of
the .Journal (as well as earlier Vols.), may be obtained, price Is. each.
Any of the above may be obtained from the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Note. —Single numbers or volumes will be sent post free.
