{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1yamen_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Yamen Probable NDE 5468","mylang":"de"}
          	        Yamen Probable NDE 5468  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Yamen Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3720 Yamen Probable NDE 5468  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a severe bronchitis that evening that caused severe shortness of breath.  I would wake up and take deep breaths as If I had just emerged from drowning in the ocean.  I knew my breathing would stop at times; I was very tired and couldn’t open my eyes due to exhaustion.  I suddenly felt extreme shortness of breath, which was followed by what felt like an explosion in my heart.  

I felt relief. I felt that this explosion released my struggling soul.  My soul could now roam around where ever it wanted without obstacles.  I felt complete freedom.  I was now free and didn’t need a passport to cross boarders or move around the earth.  I could even roam around the universe, but I didn’t want to leave Earth so I wouldn’t feel lonely.  I was flying very easily.  It was not a dream.  The feeling of flying was very real.  A being that looked like the Joker (from the card game) approached me.  He was very friendly and gentle.  He was my guide as I traveled.  He directed me to the way to Brazil.  I had always wanted to see Brazil.  I arrived there very quickly.  I was roaming above a heavy forest area as I suddenly felt another explosion in my heart. I saw myself on my bed. I was breathing violently and my heart was beating very hard as if it were knocking on my ribs.  At that moment, I realized my breathing had stopped for a long time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/3/2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Stopped breathing.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors were very bright and pleasant, as I remember them when I was a child.  Objects shined like jewels.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The being I saw was very friendly and gentle (full of love)

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     غابات كثيفة و مررت فوق جبال شاهقة و محيط كبير

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Like the feeling of child who received a great present that he was dreaming of .

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I began to believe that perhaps supernatural creatures can communicate with us.  My religion taught me that this communication was from the devil.  Yet my experience was a pleasant encounter.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I began to believe that perhaps supernatural creatures can communicate with us.  My religion taught me that this communication was from the devil.  Yet my experience was a pleasant encounter.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Complete freedom and ability to fly

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my siblings that night about my experience and they told me it was a warning because I didnt regularly pray at that time.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Every feeling and action I described felt very real.  But this does not mean that I can confirm 100% that it happened.  I can confirm what I felt 100%.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1yamen_probable_nde.html