{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V18 1917-18","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v18_1917-18.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V18 1917-18","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XVIII
1917—1918
For Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only
THE society's ROOMS
20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, IV.
All rights reserved
I
No. CCCXXXIV.—VpL.ikTMr, '
• jA^rAEV, lOi:
JOURNAL
^ THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
*>
Review : Sir Oliver Lodge's
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE MELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.,
On WEDNESDAY, JANUARY ^isf, 1917, at 5 p.m.
WHEN
Dr. CONSTANCE E. LONG
WILL READ A PAPER ENTITLED
" The Psycho-Analytic Use of Subliminal
Material."
N.B. Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their Names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate Each Member
or Associate is alloi^'ed to invite one friend.
9 Journal of Socisiy for Fsy,chieal . [Hesearch. Jan., 1917.
MORE ABOUT DREAMsI'-
By Dr. F. C. S. Schiller.
Dr. Jacks's reply to my comments on his article (see Journal,
July, 1916) reveals, as I expected, so much agreement between
us that I am tempted to carry a little further the discussion
of our differences. I agree of course that dreams have never
had justice done them and that the interpretation ordinarily
placed upon them is by no means the only one conceivable nor
philosophically the most adequate. But we do not quite agree
about the number of parties to a dream that should be recog-
nized. I distinguish three, (1) the waking self, (2) the dreamer,
and (3) the (unknown) maker of the dream. He analyses out
four, (1)
'
Smithi', who remembers the dream, (2)
'
Smithj'
'
asleep and dreaming," (3)
'
Smithg', the dream-duellist, and
(4) his '
antagonist '
—in the dream—who is not, apparently,
any sort of '
Smith.' In this classification I cannot follow
the distinction between '
Smith2' and '
Smith,,' : surely, unless
'
Smith,' is the body, the sleeper who dreams is precisely
the duellist, and the dixel is what he dreams. The whole
of it is at least real in his dream, and real with all its inci-
dents, the fighters, and the rapiers, daggers or pistols they
fight with. Nothing can deprive the duel of its reality,
relatively to the dream, so long as '
Smithy' remembers it.
But this settles nothing as to the question whether the dream
has any other and higher reality as well.
Ordinarily, no doubt, we deny to dreams any further reality,^
and attribute to them reality in the dreamer's experience alone.
This, I agree, is unproved and arbitrary and begs an important
question. And there are other interpretations which have
been believed, and should be investigated. Thus (1) it may
be that the dream is not merely a subjective experience, but
shared by others, who dream it too. If so. Dr. Jacks's
antagonist may be a real person, and the suggestion of cross-
corresponding dreams has my entire sympathy. Indeed, they
seem to occur, though rarely, and the Society has recorded
some examples, e.g. the prototype of Kipling's Brnshwood Boy
1 For tlie clirt'eront soils of rnality. see my Prosiilpntial Addicss, Proc,
Vol. XXVII.. pp. 212-19.
Jan., 1917. More about Drea.ms. 3
in the Journal, Vol. I. p. 353. Or again (2) the dream may
iiiean something objective, and be a divinely-sent warning,
like Nebuchadnezzar's and Agamemnon's. Freud's theory also
is of this type. (3) The close resemblance between dream-life
and real life, between dream-worlds and the physical world,
suggests a still bolder and more realistic interpretation. In
all philosophic essentials there is no difference. Both the
'
real '
world and the dream-worlds are in space and time,
are subject to change and motion, and are inhabited by
persons and things. It can be held, therefore, that the
dream-worlds really exist, and that the only advantage the
'
real ' w^oiid has over them is that w'e inhabit it longer
and more frequently. But what after all are three score
years and ten ? ilight we not awake some day from our
present nightmare and find that it had occupied only a few
moments in the time of a more real world ? It seems to
me that there is much consolation in this thought, though
its statement has to be guarded in several directions.^
It is clear that upon this interpretation also Dr. Jacks's
antagonist in the duel may be a real person. But I do not
see how he can satisfy his curiosity about him, without inquiring
how he, himself, or his dream-representative, got into the
dream. And this leads us back to the making of the dream,
which seems to me to be the essential crux. That in his
clream-duel Dr. Jacks should have had an antagonist seems
as natural as that he should have had a weapon. But who
or what constructed the dream and arranged the duel ? The
waking self obviously was not to blame ; it only '
remembered
'
the dream after it had happened. Nor can the dreamer be
credited with a plot and a denouement he did not foresee
for him the w^hole affair was as real and objective and inde-
pendent of him as anything in the performances of waking
life. I can only conclude, therefore, that if '
Sally Beauchamp
'
in Dr. Morton Prince's classic case was not the beginning of
a clue to this puzzle, science must at present confess itself
nonplussed. She clearly had the sort of imagination and of
mental attitude which characterizes the '
makers ' of most of
our dreams.
1 Cf. Studies in Humanism, i).
48.5.
4 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jan., 1917.
DRAMATIC DREAMS.
By Ernest S. Thomas.
Members of the Society will have read with great interest Dr.
Jacks's instructive article on dreams in the May number of the
Journal, in which he contends that the dramatis personae of
the kind of dream he discusses are extraneous to the dreamer.
I hope in the following notes to show that there are experiences
of an intermediate nature which throw light upon the sources
of these dreams.
The following are the jjoints ujjon which Dr. Jacks lays stress :
(1) There is no reason why 1 should experience surprise or
horror if my own mind is the source of the dream-content ; the
mind cannot prepare surprises for itself.
(2) The explanation that my mind is the agent breaks down
because there are three agents, the dreamer and two dream-
personalities.
Now the first suggestion that I wish to put forward is that all
dreams of a dramatic kind are not so completely " rounded off
"
as those Dr. Jacks relates. They have a tendency to "fizzle out"
by taking a ridiculous turn.
I dreamt, for instance, the following dream, which is traceable
to no known experience of my own. I was one of a large
congregation seated on chairs in the open air facing the east
near the time of sunset : we were all gazing upwards and east-
wards when ])resently an object appeared in mid-air rapidly
approaching. It resolved itself into a great eagle bearing in
its talons a huge golden lion. The bird remained poised before
us : its plumes flashing as it beat its wings : the lion illumined
in the most natural and glorious way by the sunset light. It
was a majestic sight, and my feelings were those of deepest
awe. There were other striking and consistent phases in the
dream, but the point I would emphasise is that presently the
lion appeared as a miserable little leonine cur, running about
and wagging its tail ingratiatingly. It was all one dream, and
the obvious question presents itself : —if the anticlimax was inspired
or produced by an agency other than my mind, then are not
all dreams surely so produced ? The more obvious conclusion
is that the whole thing was the ])roduct of my own " mind."
But is there any evidence from which we can infer that Mr.
Jan., li)17. Dramatic Dreams. 6
Jacks's first contention does not bold good ? I think there is ;
namely, in the experiments in hypnotism jierformed by Professor
and Mrs. Sidgwick and Mr. Smith at Brighton. ' On one occasion
an attempt was made to induce the perci])ient to see a choir-
boy on a card. What he saw was a ghost, which he described
with some emotion. It may still be contended that the source
of the dream was " extraneous," nevertheless the form it took,
giving rise to feelings one should not have at the products of
one's own imagination and which the agents did not intend, was
clearly woven by the percipient's mind.
Again, there is Gurney's famous experiment m which the
))ercipient read from a book and at the same time endeavoured
to do an arithmetical calculation on the planchette. The result
was astonishing. The unpleasant " mental " sensations occasioned
by the ])sychic stress of the attempted operation produced a
terrifying dream, in which the percipient " got into bed " (alle-
gorical of giving up the experiment) to escape his unpleasant
visitant. Here is a clear case of terror occasioned at a phantom
raised by the mind of the terrified dreamer.
Readers of the Proceedings will ere this have seen the direction
in which these quoted cases point, namely, that the phenomenon
is to be explained by some theory of multiple ])ersonality.
The Beauchamp case comes to mind, bringing us to Dr. Jacks's
second point. In this case the physical Miss Beauchamp as
Bii suffered so many things at the hands of Sally (Bm), of
whose existence she (B,i) Avas, as Miss Beauchamp, totally
oblivious. That this is the true explanation, namely, the temporary
subdivision of the personality into temporarily distinct more or
less rational entities, is to be inferred from an interesting experi-
ment of Myers, when he attempted, and finally managed, to
be conscious as Myers in liis dream, and betook himself to
studying his surroundings in the dream-room with keen and
cautious interest lest he should waken himself by any emotional
display of feehng. In his case his dream- weaving " self " and
his normal rational self (the latter awake and not asleep as in
a normal dream), are completely rounded ofi. In an attempt
I made myself I was only partially successful. I had the same
feehng of elation at being "awake" in my dream (in a picture-
post-card shop), and attempted to prove to myself that " I
"
was in a dream-shop by showing a friend a post-card of a
igcc Pwc. S.P.E., Vol. VI., p. 128.
6 Journal of Society fur Psychical Research. Jan., 1917.
castle and asking him to say what it was. Elation at his reply
(that it was a bird) awoke me. Unless my friend and i were
both present in " spirit " in the dream-shop (as I take it Mr.
Jacks would contend) my reasoning powers were not fully opera-
tive ; I did not realize (on my hypothesis) that my friend was as
much a figment of my dream-weaving " personality " as the shop.
But it is not necessary to invoke the theory of multiple per-
sonality to give a plausible explanation of a dream in which the
dreamer experiences emotions such as the products of his own
"imagination" should not normally afford. There is the "critical"
state of mind (to employ an expression borrowed from physical
science, which denotes the condition of matter wlien it is neither
gaseous nor liquid, but between the two), when one is hovering
on the boundary between sleeping and waking, in a hypnoidal
state.
It may be of interest to quote an experience of my own in
this state. Lying in a chair with eyes closed, fully conscious
of my position, and that if I opened my eyes all would disappear,
I saw before me a large illuminated missal, as bright as though
illuminated by the sunshine that actually filled my room. I
studied the lectures with interest, noting the gleam of light
where the gilding curved with the page, and the grain of the
paper, and the way it " took " the different colours. When I turned,
as it were, to think upon what I saw, I remember that the picture
grew dimmer. It was clearly a case of fluttering on the border-
land between full awareness of mind and semi-consciousness. This
was further borne out by the fact that while I fancied I was
reading the book, attention to what I was mentally repeating
as I read showed that it was utter nonsense. " Let us see," I
thought, " whether that is really what is written." I looked
fixedly at the page to read the characters and was conscious of
a sensation of strain which I had not felt on studying the pictures :
I found that an effort of imagination was required to see the
words I was reading, i.e. I found that I thought the words
first and then saw them. As in hypnotic cases where the subject's
idea.s of the rational are strained too far (perhaps also from a
cause similar to that in the Gurney experiment quoted above),
I came fully to myself and the book disappeared. I would
point out that wonder and surprise at seeing the book so clearly
and vividly was a pervading emotion of this " dream."
Jan., 1917. Review. 7
REVIEW.
Raymond. ; or, Life awl Death. By Sm Oliver Lodge. (Methnen
& Co., London. 10s. 6d. net.)
Psychical researchers have often been indebted to Sir Oliver
Lodge for his writings on matters which especially interest them
and attract their investigation, but probably never before have
they been laid unrler so great obligation as they are by his
latest production, Raymond. To produce it required not only
expert knowledge of the ways and methods of psychically
endowed persons generally classed as mediuins ; but further
demanded a frankness and a courage which are even less
commonly met with, and there can be little doubt but that
its ]3erusal will greatly stimulate the serious consideration of
a subject the importance of which can scarcely be exaggerated.
Sir Oliver divides his work into three parts.
In the first he, as it were, introduces us to his gallant son.
A selection of his correspondence from the seat of war
discloses to us a brave young officer, and bears testimony, as
do many similar narratives, to a cheerful endurance of hard-
ships whose existence he scarcely admits, but is sadly and
amply evidenced from other soixrces—hardships, moreover,
incidental to a career which would not have been chosen
save at the distinct and conscientiously recognised call of
duty. In this respect Raymond Avas one of a class numerou.sly
represented in these sad and strenuous days, and of whom
Britain has every reason to be proud. Many have written,
though perhaps rarely with a view to publication, similar
bright accounts of their experiences in the stormy Front,
calculated and intended, by no means insincerely, to cheer and
keejj ivp the spirits of the loved ones at home. Raymond
endured the hardships of war. though he never described
them as hardships, from joining the expeditionarj^ force in
March, 19L5, until his fatal wound and death in the following
September, and a more attractive personality it would be
difficult to present.
There could scarcely be a more appropriate introduction
than this to the second part, which gives us the substance
and often the detail of many communications made to various
members of the family since the death. Some of these are
admittedly of interest only from the evidential point of view.
We say " only," but scientifically regarded this is certainly
the most important aspect of the case. On the other hand,
many of the messages, though not in a strict sense evidential,
are on the personal side of intense interest, an interest which
is intensified by the introduction in Part I. which has been
referred to.
Jotivnai uf Society for Psychical Researcli. .Tan., iniT.
Tt would be futile to attempt within the brief limits imposed
by this Journal to illustrate or to convey an adequate imjDres-
sion of the various commxinications. Critics of such messages
have often complained of the triviality or even flippancy of
what the departed say or purport to say. No such charge
can be urged against the matter here presented to us. Much
ground is covered, sometimes with mediums, often without,
sometimes by automatic writing, sometimes by speech, the way
being led in quite characteristic manner by our old friend Mr.
Myers, but the matter is intensely serious and some of it even
sacred. In Part III., which discusses the philosophy of the
whole question, quotations from the writings of the late Mr.
Stainton Moses sufficiently establish the .serious side of many
communications, and no doubt many messages that are not
and never Avill be published are of the sanie effect. At the
same time, the writer warns us that experiments in this matter
are not to be lightly undertaken. Efforts made in this direction
are likely to be responded to in the spirit in which they are
made, and it is far worse than useless to enter upon them
under the prompting of a prurient curiosity ; and it may be
added that in any case the greatest caution should be exercised
in having recourse to a professional medium.
It is the less necessary to dwell at length on the records
of the many sittings, inasmuch as they were reported at length
by Sir Oliver himself in a paper read by him at a jorivate
meeting of the Society in June last, and this paper has since
appeared with additions in the latest number of our Proceedings.
The third part, as alread}^ said, is devoted to a consideration
of the phenomena from a scientific, and even in some degree
from a religious point of view. Of course opinions will differ
widely as to the degree of acceptance which is to be accorded
to the revelations of another sphere of life here set forth.
Obdurate sceptics and perhaps rigidly orthodox believers will
have none of it. The Times reviewer wants time to make
up his mind respecting a matter so great and so new to him ;
but the least that can be said is that an exposition so com-
prehensive, so lucid and so candid Avill be of great assistance
to all who devote serious thought to the subject, and it may
well be anticipated that many will in future adopt a view of
the allegations and possibilities of spiritualism widely different
from those which thev have hitherto entertained.
'
H. A. 8.
No. CCCXXXV.—Vol. XVIII. Feb.-March, 1917.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members .and Associates, 9
Annual General Meeting, 11
Meetings of the Council, 11
General Meeting, 13
Report of the Council, 13
Account of Receipts and Expenditure for 1016, 16
Cases, 19
Review, 29
Notes on Current Periodicals, 31
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are 'printed in Small Capitals.
{Elected on December 7, 1916.)
Browne, Mrs. A. Scott, Buckland Filleigh, Highampton, N. Devon.
Carlton, Arthur, J.P., Colelmrst, Worcester.
Girdlestone, Mrs. Frank, The Mill House, Iffley, Oxford.
Hinkley, Mrs. W., The Gables, Glenmore Road, Salisbur3\
Manning, Miss H. T., 102 Central Avenue, Plainfield, New Jersey^
U.S.A.
Marsden-Smedley, Mrs., Lea Green, Matlock.
Paley, G. A., 90 Onslow Gardens, London, S.W.
Williamson, The Very Rev. Dr. Wallace, 44 Palmerston Place,
Edinburgh.
Bayfield, L. Arthur, Park Grange, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Berry, Rev. Sidney M., 16 Hagley Road, Birmingham.
Derby, Miss Isabel C, 2.58 King's Road, Chelsea, London, S.W.
De Winton, Mrs. R. F., 83 Elizabeth Street, London, S.W.
DowsoN, Mrs., Landhurst Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
Elgee, Captain Cyril H., 18 Regent Street, Waterloo Place,
London, S.W.
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mae., 1917.
FERC4USS0N, Eev. A. W., The Manse, Dundee.
Herriot, Miss E. F., l' Sunningdale Gardens, Kensington, London,
W.
Kelso, Mrs. H. J., 425 W. Church Avenue, Knoxville, Tenn.,
U.S.A.
MiMS, Mrs. Virginia, 21] N. Conception Street, Mobile, Alabama,
U.S.A.
MoRiARTY, Miss Eileen F. H., 46 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park,
London, W.
Peck, Mrs. Louis S., 30 Lackawanna Avenue, Jacksonville, Florida,
U.S.A.
Scott, Mrs. Mintdrn, Waterside Copse, Liphook, Hants.
Shastri, B. G., 59 Kala Mehta Street, Sagrarapura, Surat, India.
Tipping, Miss K., 7 Lansdowne Circus, Leamington.
Turner, General Sir Alfred, 16 Chelsea Embankment, London,
S.AV.
Walker, R. A. Rolleston, Innisfallen, Cami^bell Road, Boscombe,
Hants.
WlLKlNS, Mrs., 19 Ormond Road, Rathmines, Dublin, Ireland.
Willett, Miss Cicely, 2 Holland Park Road, Kensington, London,
W.
(Elected on Jannari/ 31, 1917.)
Arnold-Foster, Mrs. H. 0., Bas?et Down, Swindon, Wilts.
Gardner, Mrs., 30 Albacore Crescent, Lewisham, London, S.E.
Hope, Lieut. -Commander R. H. K., R.N., H.M.S. Dreadnought.
Horwood, C. Baring, Tunstall, Suffolk.
Stevenson, Mrs., 52 Abinger Road, Bedford Park, London, W.
Wang, C. Y., Panoff Garden, Rue de Saigon, Hankow, China.
Wilson, Naval Instructor Percy, R.N., H.M.S. Dreadnought.
Booyalsky, Jean de, 16 Champion Grove, Denmark Hill, London,
S.E.
Budge, Miss H. G., St. Elmo, Haywards Road, Cheltenham.
CORNFORD, Rev. Bruce, 43 Havelock Road, Portsmouth.
Gilson, R. Gary, King Edward's School, Birmingham.
Grahame, Miss Helen, Cumberland House, Horley, Surrey.
Grove, Mrs. Edward, Redhill, Farnham, Surrey.
Hudson, Miss Alice, Meads Court, Eastbourne.
Hudson, Miss Katie E., Meads Court, Eastbourne.
NoRRIS, Stuart, 3 Birclifield Road, Birmingham.
Prindlk, H. E., 915 New Birks Building, Montreal.
J-'eb.-Mae., 1017. Neiv Memhers and Associates. 11
ElDLEY, M. KOY, 11 Percival Eoad, Clifton, Bristol.
ScHOLEFiELD, Mrs., Caergwrle, Eectory Lane, Prestwich, Man-
chester.
Strutt, Commander Hon. A. C, E.N., Terling Place, Witham,
Essex.
Swinburne, Mrs., Coombe Priory, Shaftesbury, Dorset.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 20 Hanover Square. London, W., on Wednesday,
January 31st, 1917, at 3.30 p.m. ; Sir William Barrett
in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally,
the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Sir Lan'rence J.
Jones, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, IMiss F. C. Scatcherd, Mr.
Sydney C. Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mr. H. Arthiu- Smith
(and, by proxy : Miss Alice Balfour, the Right Hon. Gerald W.
Balfour^ Sir Wilham Crookes, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W.
ffitchell. Dr. F. C. S. SchiUer, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey) ;
also i\Irs. Salter, Editor, and iVIiss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Report of the Council for the year 1916 was accepted,
and is printed below. The audited account of income and
expenditure for the year 1916 was presented and taken as read.
The Chairman annomiced that the six retiring Members
of the Council offered themselves for re-election. No other
nominations having been received, the foUo'ning were declared
to be duly elected Members of the Council : Sir William
Barrett, Dr. J. ]\Iilne Bramwell, the Hon. Everard Feilding,
Professor Gilbert Miu-ray, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Dr. F. C. S.
Schiller.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 11:3rd Meeting of the Coimcil was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, December 7th, 1916, at
5 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir W. F. Barrett, the
Rev. M. a. Bayfield, Mr. E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt, and Mrs. Henry Sidg-nick ;
also,
Mrs. Salter, Editor and Hon. Research Of&cer, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
12 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mab., loi?.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Eight new Members and nineteen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for October and November, 1916,
were presented and taken as read. ,
The 14:4th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Wednesday, January 31st, 1917,
at 3 p.m. ; Sir William Barrett in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield,
Mr. E. N. Bennett, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Mrs. Salter, Editor,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and signed as correct.
The Report of the Council was considered for the year 1916.
The 145th Meeting of the Comicil was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Wednesday, January 31st, 1917,
immediately after the Annual General Meeting ; Sir William
Barrett in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W.
Baggally, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. E N. Bennett, Sir
Lawrence J. Jones, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr. Sidney C.
Scott, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, and Mr. H. Arthur Smith ; also
Mrs. Salter, Editor, and JVIiss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The proceedings of the Annual General Meeting were reported.
Dr. L. P. Jacks was elected President of the Society for
the year 1917.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick and the Hon. Everard Feilding, Hon. Secre-
taries ; and Mr. Arthur Miall, Auditor, for the current year.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1917 : the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. G. Lowes
Dickinson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Dr. V. J.
Woolley, and Dr. M. B. Wright.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The Right Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Miss Jane Barlow, Sir William F. Barrett,
Feb. -Mar., 1917. Meetinrjs of the Council. 13
the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Sir William Crookes, the Hon.
Everard Feilding, Dr. "^W. Leaf, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W.
IMitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Lord Rayleigh, and Mrs. H.
Sidgwick.
Library Committee : The Hon. Everard Feildiug, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
House and Finance Committee : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, and Mr. H. Arthur Smith.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected
for the year 1917, the name of Dr. C. G. Jung being added to the
list of Corresponding Members, and that of Mr. Oscar Bromring
to the list of Honorary Associates.
Seven new Members and fourteen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 147th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Council Chamber, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on
Wednesday, January 31st, 1917, at 5 p.m. ; Sir Lawrence J.
Jones in the chair.
Dr. Constance E. Long read a paper on The " Psycho-
Analytic Use of Subliminal Material," which, it is hoped, will
be published later in the Proceedings.
REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1916.
Once again we have to present oar Annual Report whilst Europe
is still lying under the burden of war. The general effect of
existing conditions upon the work of the Society was described
in our last report, and there is little to add.
In the course of the year 28 new Members were elected,
including one Honorary Member ; 52 new Associates were
elected and 5 Members became Associates. On the other
hand the total loss in numbers, from resignations, deaths,
and other causes, was 12 Members and 99 Associates, making
a net decrease of 31.
The total Membership is now 1085, the numbers being dis-
t]ibuted as follows : Members, 274 (including 27 Honorary
14 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-BIah., 1917.
and Corresponding Members) ;
Associates, 811 (including 13
Honorary Associates).
An unusually large proportion of the loss in membership is
caused by failure to renew subscriptions without formal resig-
nation. There have been 50 such cases in 1916, as compared
with an annual average of 30 for the five years 1909-1913.
For this increase there is no doubt that the war is partly
responsible ; for in 12 cases the Associates who have been cut
off reside in countries with which England is now at war, and
5 Russian Associates have failed to send their subscriptions
owing to temporary postal difficulties. Amongst Members
normally resident in England who have failed to renew their
subscriptions there are several whom we know to be absent on
work connected with the war.
Of the 51 formal resignations which have been received during
the year, 14 are definitely stated to be due to the war. In 26
cases no reason is given, but in four of these regret is expressed.
In only one case has there been any expression of dissatis-
faction with the Society's work.
The opportunity for experiment has again been restricted by
the circumstance that for certain kinds of experiment medical
assistance is desirable, and the additional strain which the war
has imposed upon all members of the medical profession is
such that they have scant leisure for any work outside their
professional duties. Moreover, one of our Honorary Secretaries,
Mr. Feilding, by whom investigations on behalf of the Society
are frequently undertaken, is still absent on Government service.
Only one part of the Proceedings has been published during
the past year. The intention had been to publish it in October,
but it was unavoidably delayed owing to the printers being short-
handed, and did not appear until the end of November. It
is hoped that another small Part will be published in March
and a further Part in the Summer to complete the volume.
But it is likely that for the present our publications may be
slightly reduced in bulk, since the same causes which have
limited the opportunity for experiment operate also in regard
to matter for printing.
We noted last year that the war had not caused any increase
in the number of spontaneous experiences reported to the
Society. The number of war-cases continues to be small, but
Feb. -Mak., 1917. Report of the Council for the Year 1916. 1-")
in the course qf ilii's last year we have printed in the Journal
a report of an apparition at the time of death in the battle of
Jutland, an'd 'of a dreain, perhaps connected with the same
battle. We 'hdve also received, and hope to print soon, a
report of the apparition of an officer, shortly after he had been
wounded at the front. There has been a welcome increase
lately in the number of cases reported to us of veridical
apparitions of the living. During the five years, 1911-191.5,
only 5 such cases were reported in which the evidence was
sufficiently strong to warrant publication. During the last
year we have received three ;
for, in addition to the two
mentioned above, a third, which had no connexion with the
war, was printed in the Journal for November-December.
In the Journal for May we printed an article by Dr. L. P.
Jacks on " Dramatic Dreams," in which the author called
attention to the " virtually unexplored territory awaiting the
psychologist who would devote himself to the study of those
dreams which form part of our normal experience, as distinct
from dreams affording evidence of supernormal phenomena, tele-
pathy, e.g., or premonition. There is no doubt that useful
work might be done in this field. Hitherto systematic study of
dream-phenomena has for the most part been confined to
medical men, who have considered them primarily from a
medical standpoint, and have therefore given their chief
attention to pathological cases. There have also been a few
cases in which the dreamer has studied his own dreams, but
this method is open to one objection ; for dreams, like other
mental phenomena which are not under conscious control,
appear to be easily influenced by suggestion, so that by per-
sistently studying and analysing his dreams a man may uncon-
sciously mould them to suit whatever theory he forms. What
seems to be first required in order to provide material for
research is that a large number of people should during a
certain period keep careful and complete records of all their
dreams, so far as they can remember them. The task of
sifting and tabulating this material would not be easy, but the
result might prove of great value to psychology.
Wide-spread interest has been aroused by the publication of
Sir Oliver Lodge's book " Eaymond or Life and Death," part
of which also appeared in the last part of Proceedings, under
oo OO0O'HOi?;(M0T*iC00!M'^OtCOL'^
0000'->iUpOO«0>^eOOOOJOiC,I>OW
T-P r-(r-1i-jr-; rir-t-
CD rH (N
o
o
1—
1
CO CD
00
(N
ooo
ooo
o in
o
o
o :
^•^
•• . y,
g K —
c3 o cj
.H "CM
0\ CX)
I-t
CO 00
3
60
oooo
oooo
CI CI
o
I
CO O r-l O
CI iH rH T-H
.2-- S
e"^ ° 2
r-fcl C " <B
"30 C3fs5!»
"5 -a btS
o, o ^ P!
m y S =?
CO i5
•43^
r +5
S c3 PI
C ^, tD
-2 " S
S a °
§.2
5
POD
§2
•S Si oT
.2 ,= 3'
£3 i= «
!-! o
bo <^ •
c c .
"3 O t-
o
So 3
, CD ,
a
If
d 2 t«
^ fe.2
g g S
li
rt o
C <u.2
C 3 C
ci o a
<u 5
o o
cc
S
.-I C<
fa c :
"
o
I—
(
lOO O o ir:"© o cooo o
Ol o o o l>- i>-oo
rH T-H t-l I—
1
CO iH lO O COfH T-l CO CslOO
o 'OOO ?D
I> tMi-H ur:. CO
QOO
rH
ocoo
COrH I>oO
O tH
ot
c+i
ooo COOl oo
1—1 1—I ^ o O O
1-1 1-i rH i;^ ^
OO i-l
O 01 1>
1-1 T-l
o en CO
« s g Q S
aTi^ « £ S
"3
o
-I rH
H CI Tt<
rH tH r
a to
.2 S
.p-g
o r r
4<
W r- „
-°.2 S
— 'r™ ^ «^
.«Sg5|-2
r
ii— >>.r. I.
S.S go s
i-HtOHitm
c*
o o
- a
— o ^ ^
g Oi c &
'-^Sts^S g
O c m W =r
S~ o ^5
O OJ
a
-SI
"V, ^ 0)
_ O _Q
S >. S -g a
S cS a) = oj
H
CO
Em
O
P
O
.a
P
3 13 Jjv'l ^
,5 " -f^ -1^ c3 .2 cS
OOOOOi-lOO
00000000
OOTOOlOOOt^O
^OO^OOlOOOiO
O C<J C-1 O O CO
T—7^ r— T-H ^
« « « Crt
C3
g
4^
p ^ rf o
o
Q
g 6
!0
„ . c3 a o
;n -^^ S
wet:
O O O '5
CO O O ^
c^iooS
05 IM ^ P
00 iC) »c
(JJ ^ Qj
Ol
o ^
^«
o o
<1> P "
^ a o a +3 *^
5 P S o
^ ^ r-
03 S
-
cu O
Q ^ g CO IM (M
.> 's -3 rH O
^ O 02 ^ 02 ^
^ fx O O ""^
00 ^ -H e-^ crt C(j
OJ C*J Cj3 Cli
^Tl
O
I
o
o
I
1
o o e>i
000
o o »o
000
tH CO
Id
Ocq g
Oj OJ
c3
OJ ;3 ff3
CO o
C
K in
Q S
(M 5
P5 w
03 o
.13 C
SCO
^ o
1 5
«
r
§2
cq S
6 f3
S
/a 1
4.0
§ s
3 2
s
73 CO O)
a
!> O
18 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb. -Mar., 1917.
the title " Some recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival."
The evidence here offered, as also that in the paper read
by Mr. G. W. Balfour in November, materially adds to the
considerable amount bearing—to an extent about which opinions
may no doubt differ—upon the question of survival and power
of communication after bodily death which has been published
by the Society during the last ten years. Whatever difference
of opinion there may be about the value, from the point of
view in question, of this evidence—which includes of course
that derived from cross-correspondences—it cannot be denied
that there has been an increase in the amoimt presented
by the Society and deserving of serious consideration, as
compared to what was obtained in the first twenty-five years
of the Society's existence.
Miss Alice Johnson, who has been absent from work during
the whole year for reasons of health, has resigned her appoint-
ment as Research Officer and Editor, and the Council has
appointed Mrs. Salter to be Editor and Honorary Research
Officer. Miss Johnson's valuable assistance will be greatly
missed, but we are glad to say that her long connexion with
the Society has not been broken, since she has now been
elected an Honorary Member. We trust, moreover, that Miss
Johnson will not cease to interest herself in the investigations
which the Society exists to promote, and in particular that she
will continue her study of automatic writing, which has already
resulted in so many valuable contributions to the Society's work.
The Council record with much regret the loss which the
Society has sustained in the death of Mrs. A. W. Verrall, an
obituary notice of whom appeared in the last part of the
Proceedings. Under her will Mrs. Verrall bequeathed a legacy to
the Society of £500.
One General Meeting and three Private Meetings have been
held during the year. The dates and the subjects of papers
read at these meetings were as follows :
* February 23rd. " A series of Experiments in '
Guessing,'
"
by Mrs. A. W. Verrall. (Printed in Proceedings,
Part LXXII.)
April 14th. " A New Automatist," by Mrs. W. H. Salter.
(To appear later, it is hoped, in Proceedings.)
"
General Meeting.
Feb. -Mae., 1917. Report of the Council for the Year 1916. 19
June 23rd. " Recent Evidence about Prevision and Sur-
vival," by Sir Oliver Lodge. (Printed in Proceedings,
Part LXXII.)
November 9th. The Ear of Dionysius," by the Right
Hon. G. W. Balfour. (To appear later, it is hoped,
in Proceedings.)
CASES.
I.
L. 1209. Apparition.
We print below a report of an apparition seen by Mrs. S.
Jones, living at Enfield, Gateshead, of her son-in-law, Lieut.
G. E. W. Bridge, Durham Light Infantry, shortly after he
had been wounded in France, but before any news of his
being wounded had reached his family.
It will be observed that Mrs. Jones did not mention her
experience to any one until after she knew of its veridical
character, but we have been able by means of certain corro-
borative evidence to estabHsh a very strong probability that
Mrs. Jones's recollection of what took place is substantially
accurate. Under these circumstances we feel justified in putting
the case on record, all the more that it presents one curious
feature which will interest all who concern themselves with the
psychological peculiarities of these phenomena.
Our earliest information was contained in a letter from
Li^ut. Bridge, as follows :
Enfield, Gateshead,
November 2, 1916.
The following presents an unusual feature to me—but possibly
you can explain it.
My age is 34.
I was wounded in France July 24th, 1916, 3.30 p.m.
Between 1 and 2 a.m. July 26th, 1916, I appeared to Mrs. S.
Jones (my wife's mother) at this address, waldug her from sleep.
The physical appearance corresponded with that of a photo
taken when I was about 3 years old—the head was bandaged
shewing only forehead—eyes—nose—mouth, and a little of the chin.
Except for the age and apparent height (only head was seen
clearly)—this was the condition I was in, and I was in hospital
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli. Feb.-Mar., 1917.
at Boulogne—to the best of my recollection asleep, and of course
with. 2 days' growth of beard.
The apparition was taken for my son " in the flesh " at fii'st
and was asked what was the matter. Mrs. Jones then recognized
me—I smiled and vanished.
The War Office telegram announcing the casualty was received
at 9 p.m., July 26th.
Mrs. Jones did not know me till I was about 19—at which
time and ever since I have had a small moustache—and she
always thinks of me as grown up—never as a chUd. In these
circumstances, can you explain why I should appear as a child
and not in my most easily recognizable form ?
That I appeared to Mrs. Jones I can understand as she is
more psychic than my wife.
G. E. W. Bridge, Lt. Durh. L.I.
The above is substantially correct. I might add that I had
not looked at the photograph mentioned for at least 4 years.
E. M. Jones.
In reply to this letter we wrote to Lieut. Bridge asking
for a detailed report b} Mrs. Jones herself and a corroborative
statement, if obtainable, from some person to whom she had
related her experience before the news came that Lieut. Bridge
was wounded. We received an answer from Mrs. Bridge as
follows :
'
Enfield, Gateshead,
November 5, 1916.
My husband has just returned to duty. ... I enclose a full
account \vritten by Mrs. Jones, of her experience of July 26th.
This corresponds with ,her description to me on August 5th.
I see that it is unfortunate, from the point of view of '
evidence,'
that she told no one before this date. I can only say that as
far as we ourselves are concerned, this makes no difference, as
we do not admit the possibility of her altering the facts, even
involuntarily. She is particularly clear-headed and well-balanced,
and when relating one or two rather similar experiences, I have
never known her vary in the accounts in the slightest degree.
I am not surprised that my husband should appear to her,
—
they have often discussed such things, and are much in sympathy
—though the '
least-familiar '
form has puzzled us ail. . . .
Margaret E. Bridge.
Feb -Mae., 1917. Cases. 21
{Statement by Mrs. Jones, enclosed in Mrs. Bridge's letter of
November 5, 1916.)
Enfield, Gate-shkad.
During the early morning of Wed., July 26th, 1916, I woke
from sleep, with the idea that someone was in my room. I
opened my eyes to absolute darkness, but at the right side of
my bed stood a misty figure, which I at first took for my little
grandson, and I asked him why he was there. No answer came,
but the face became more distinct, and I saw it resembled a
photograph of my son-in-law, taken when he was about three
years old. In the photogTaph one can see short curls, but in
my vision the lower part of forehead, eyebrows, eyes, nose, mouth
and part of chin were clearly visible, but hair, ears, lower part
of chin and neck were hidden by white wrappings. As I looked
and wondered, the mouth expanded into a smile, and the appear-
ance vanished, the room being still in darkness. My grandson
had not been quite well the previous day, and my first thought
was to go and see if he were worse, but as I knew his mother
had settled to sleep in his room, I decided not to risk alarming
her.
I did not mention the occurrence to anyone, as we only had
servants in the house, and naturally I did not want to say
anything to my daughter at once. I made up my mind to wait
until she had had a letter from her husband of later date than
July 26th, and then tell her how anxious I had felt.
The W.O. wire came on the evening of July 26th, and in the
rush and hurry of her departure I had no chance to tell her
until she came home on Aug. 5th for a couple of nights, leaving
her husband in hospital. When I described what I had seen,
she told me that his head and neck were bandaged in that way.
I could understand his appearing to me as he looks normally,
as we have been great friends, and I have made my home with
them for some years. The puzzle is why he should appear to
me as a young chHd. Ellen M. Jones.
We then wrote to Mrs. Bridge, putting the following ques-
tions :
(a) Is it possible to get any evidence corroborating Mrs.
Jones's recollection that her experience took place in the early
morning of July 26, 1916 : e.g. Mrs. Jones mentions that your
Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mam., 1917.
son had been unwell on the previous day ; have you any
evidence as to when he was imwell ?
(b) When did you first know the iiature of the wound
from which Lieut. Bridge was suffering ? Were any details
on this point given in the War Ofl&ce telegram ?
(c) Has this telegram been preserved, and can we see it ?
{d) How old is yom- son now, and is he noticeably like
the photograph of his father to which Mrs. Jones refers ?
(c) Is there any reason to suppose that when Lieut. Bridge
was a young child, i.e. at about the time when this photograph
was taken, he had an accident which necessitated the bandaging
of his head ?
The object of these last questions, (d) and (e), was to see
whether any association of ideas could be fomid in the mind
of Mrs. Jones which would account for the circumstance that
she saw the apparition of Lieut. Bridge in the shape of a
photograph of him taken as a child many years before she
knew him. The fact that Mrs. Jones had been concerned
about her grandson's health on the pre\aous day might account
for her momentarily identifying the apparition with this boy
as she did (see above), but there was no apparent link with
the photograph of Lieut. Bridge.
To these questions Mrs. Bridge replied as follows :
Enfield, Gateshead,
November 18, 1916.
{a) My boy used to suffer very much from asthma. Last
July he had a very slight return of this, following an attack
of hay-fever. I noted in my diary that I kept him in bed on
Sunday. July 23rd. On the 25th he was " decidedly better
"
but still in bed, and I continued to sleep in his room. On the
morning of the 26th he was " practically all right," and on the
27th was out of doors again.
(b) My husband was wounded by shrapnel, all down the left
side. I first knew the locality of the wounds on the morning
of July 28th, when I received by the first post (1) a few lines
scribbled by my husband in the trenches, at 4.30 p.m., on the
24th :
" I'm hit slightly in the face and arm. Shell. Merely skin
wounds. Don't worry." And (2) a letter from his Coy. Commander
of same date ; "He was hit by little bits of a 4-2 shell—slightly
Feb. -Mae., 1917. Gases. 23
in face, arm and leg." I knew no further particulars until I
saw him in hospital in London on July 29th. The W.O. telegram
does not say anything about the locality of the wounds.
(c) I have this telegram before me now. ... I quote it in
full:
"York O.H.M.S. 8.15 p.m. Received Newcastle July 26.
8.26 p.m.
" Mrs. Bridge. Enfield. Gateshead.
" Regret Capt.^ G. E. W. Bridge admitted 7 Stationary Hospital
Boulogne July 25 gunshot wounds multiple Condition satis-
factory Territorial Records."
I received it here at " Enfield " at 9.15 p.m. Time noted in
my diary. A taxi arrived at almost the same moment to take
a visitor to the station and I sent a maid with her, to despatch
a telegram from Newcastle to the Hospital at Boulogne.
((?) My boy was 10 years old on July 27th, and was never
particularly like the photo in question. But Mrs. Jones used
to remark on my girl's resemblance to the photo, when she was
about 3 years old. She is now 1\, but when a baby, 9 months
old, she had an operation which necessitated a head-bandage.
Mrs. Jones saw the child, on one occasion only, and for a few
minutes, with this bandage. We none of us know of any accident
to my husband which would have made it necessary for him to
have his head bound up. Margaret E. Bridge.
To this letter Mrs. Jones added a note, thus :
When the telegram came telling us of my son-in-law's wound,
I at once concluded he had been wounded on the Tuesday night
(July 25, 1916), and was surprised when we heard later that it
was on the Monday afternoon. g j^j Jojjgg
We have also received an additional commiinication from
Lieut. Bridge, as follows :
November 9, 1916.
. . . From a purely evidential point of view, it is a weak
point that Mrs. Jones did not mention her experience till the
first opportunity after the news, but a comment of my wife's
when telling me of it is to a certain extent corroborative : "I
^ Lieut. Bridge had held a temporary captaincy in a xsserve battahon
"before proceeding to the front. Hence the use of this] title in the telegram.
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb. -biar., 1917.
thought she had something on her mind that day—she was so
restless and fidgetty—and seemed relieved when the telegram
came."
Usually Mrs. Jones is particularly self-controlled and possessed.
I think you have hit upon the solution of the form of the
phantasm.
My daughter when about the same age looked very like the
photo, and when young had an operation which necessitated a
head bandage very similar to the one I had. This in conjunction
with the keen sympathy existing in the family suggests a very
feasible train of thought—especially on just awakening from sleep.
This explanation to my mind counteracts the other defect
slightly, as in the case of moulding an indistinct presentiment
or an intelligent anticipation upon a known fait accompli, the
complication of the child-like appearance would not have been
added.
Another factor is that Mrs. Jones (her daughter, and I to a
less extent) is so accustomed to this tyjae of experience that there
is no question of fear confusing the impression received.^
G. E. W. Bridge, Lt.
It is established on the above evidence that Lieut. Bridge
was wounded on the afternoon of July 24, 1916, and was
admitted to hospital at Boulogne on the following day ; the
news of Ills being wounded was first conveyed to his family
at Gateshead by an official telegram (which we have seen)
received at Newcastle at 8.26 p.m. on July 26, 1916.
With regard to the date and circumstances of Mrs. Jones's
experience, it should be noted :
{a) That she related it verbally to Mrs. Bridge on August
5, 1916, and this original statement—as Mrs. Bridge tells us
—
was substantially the same as the statement printed above.
(6) Mrs. Jones notes that she at fii'st mistook the appari-
tion for her grandson. He " had not been quite well the
1 An acoouut of several of these earlier experiences has been sent to us
by Mrs. Jones "not for publication." They are all of an hallucinatory
character, and include (i) two visual hallucinations, apparently premonitory
;
(ii) a visual hallucination (of a fully developed figure) for whicn Mrs. Jones
cannot account in any way. So far as she is aware it was subjective
and not veridical ;
(iii) an auditory hallucination, contemporaneous with
the sudden iUness (a fainting-fit) of the person whose voice was heard.
Feb.-Mae., 1917. Cases.
previous day and my first thought was to go and see if he
were worse, but as I knew his mother had settled to sleep
in his room, I decided not to risk alarming her." The boy
•
—as noted at the time in Mrs. Bridge's diary—was in bed
on July 23 with a sUght attack of asthma, on July 25 he
was "decidedly better," "but still in bed," and Mrs. Bridge
was sleeping in his room. On July 26 he was " practically
all right." The evidence of the diary, therefore, corroborates
Mrs. Jones's recollection that her experience took place on the
night of July 25-26, 1916, or at least not later than this.
(c) Mrs. Jones saw Lieut. Bridge with his head bandaged, as it
actually was at the time. The fact that Lieut. Bridge had
been womided in the head was not 1-aiown to any of his
family imtil July 28, 1916.
{(1) As Lieut. Bridge has pointed out, the particular form
which Mrs. Jones ascribes to the apparition strengthens the
probability that she is relating what she actually saw. If
her mind had created an imaginary experience after she knew
that Lieut. Bridge was womided, she would almost certainly
have imagined that she saw him as he then was, a grown
man.
With regard to the form of the apparition, a not unlikely
explanation is afforded by the fact that Lieut. Bridge's daughter
—whose likeness as a small child to the photograph of her
father had been commented on by Mrs. Jones—had worn a
head-bandage for a short time, when she was a baby. This
circumstance was known to Mrs. Jones, and her mind may
have followed a line of associated ideas, thus :
Lieut. Bridge with bandaged head. (Telepathic impression.)
Lieut. Bridge's daughter with bandaged head. (Memory.)
Photograph of Lieut. Bridge which his daughter had much
resembled. (Memory.
)
Result. Apparition of Lieut. Bridge, as he appears in the
photograph, but with bandaged head.
II.
L. 1210. Two Co-incidental Dreams.
The following report has been sent to us through Mr. George
Tyrrell, an Associate of the Society, who is personally ac-
quainted with the dreamers. The names and addresses of
26 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mae., 1917.
all the persons concerned have been sent to us, but we have
been requested not to print them.
The case is of an unusual type in that two people during
the same night had dreams which, while differing in detail,
presented the same central incident, and this dream-incident
appears to have reflected an actual event occurring at the
time, of which the dreamers had no normal knowledge. There
are several cases on record of collective veridical hallucinations.
The case reported here seems to have been both collective and
veridical, but the collective impression was received during
sleep in the shape of a dream.
The dreamers were Mr. C. W. Lawson and his daughter,
Miss E. Lawson (pseudonyms). Mr. Lawson's statement is
as follows :
[Enclosed in a letter from Mr. Tyrrell, dated November 21,
1916.1]
Last July, when my daughter and I were staying in Somerset-
shire, I had a very vivid 'dream. I dreamed that I was in a
bedroom, and saw lying on the floor my brother-in-law [Mr. R.
Stephen (pseudonym)] ; he was unconscious and looked perfectly
ghastly. With some difiiculty I lifted him on to the bed ; as far
as I could see, he was not breathing and I could feel no motion
of his heart. I sprinkled some water on his face, but this having
no effect, I ran to the door and called for assistance. No one
came, so I ran out into the road where I saw two men and a
woman. I told them that some one was very ill and asked
them to go to the nearest public-house and bring some brandy ;
both the men refused, saying that the public-houses were closed,
but the woman seeing my distress said she would try and get
some, and I gave her Is. for the purpose. She, however, did
not come back again. On returning to the bedroom I found
my brother-in-law lying just as I had left him. I then hunted
over the house, but could find no one. I was in a terrible state
of anxiety and distress not knowing what to do, and being
pretty sure in my mind that he was dead. I then, just as I
was giving all up in despair, awoke and rejoiced to know that
it was only a dream.
Next morning I told my daughter of my dream while we were
at breakfast, and she said, " How very curious. I, too, have
1 Mr. La'wson cannot remember on ^^•hat daj' he wrote this account.
Feb.-Mab., 1917. Gases. 27
had a very similar dream." These dreams occurred on July 3rd
[1916], and on the 5th, when we returned home, I went to see
my brother-in-law, and found him looking very bad. He told
me that on Monday night, the 3rd July, he found himself lying
on the floor and feeling very ill ; he was utterly unable to move
or to call for help. He thinks he must have been rmconscious
for a long time. Early in the morning, he managed to call
the cook, and then remembers nothing more till 7 o'clock, when
he sent for the doctor. He told me he had never felt so ill
before, and quite thought it was all over for him ; he said he
felt such a longing for some one to come while lying on the
floor, and a feeling of great distress at not being able to call
for aid.
I may state that before leaving home, we had seen him in
quite good health and had [heard] nothing of him while we were
in Somerset. "
[C. W. Lmvson.]
Miss E. Lawson corroborates Mr. Lawsoii's statement, and
adds an account of her own dream, as follows :
[Enclosed in Mr. TyrrelVs letter of November 21, 1916.]
On Monday night, July 3rd [1916], I had a most vivid dream
about my uncle [R. Stephen].
I dreamt that he came running up to me looking very ill ; he
handed me a book which he asked me to take down in the town.
I asked him what was the matter, and he said : "I am very
ill," and he then left the room where I and two or three other
people were. The next thing I remember was that he was lying
imconscious, and that none of us seemed able to go to his help.
When I came down to breakfast the next morning, my father
told me he had had a dream about Uncle [Bob] being ill ;
after hearing this, I was so impressed that I wanted to write
and ask him how he was, as we were staying away at the time ;
but we did not write, as we were afraid of upsetting him. We
returned home on the following Wednesday [July 5, 1916], and
on Thursday morning my uncle came up stUl looking very ill
and with a nasty cut on his nose which he had got through his
fall on the same night that I had dreamt about him.
[E. Lawson.]
It has not been possible to obtain any statement from Mr.
Stephen, since he greatly dislikes making any reference to
his experience but evidence as to the date and nature of his
28 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb. -Mae., 1917.
illness has been obtained, from his cook and from the doctor
who attended him.
[Statement by Mr. Stephen's cook concerning his illness, enclosed
in Mr. Tyrrell's letter of November 21, 1916.]
At 1 a.m. on July 4th, 1916, I was aroused by hearing a
thud which seemed to come from Mr. [Stephen's] room. I sat
up and listened, but hearing no further sound, I went to sleep.
At 3.45 I heard Mr. [Stephen] knocking at my door and saying :
" Come quickly, I am very ill." I roused the housemaid and
went to Mr. [Stephen's] room ; we found him lying on the floor
unconscious and looking very ill. I sent the housemaid for some
whisky, and we managed to pour a little into his mouth, and
then with difiiculty lifted him into bed ; he was icy cold, and I
should think had been lying for hours on the floor ; he then
revived a little, and said :
" I am feeling very ill. I think I
am dying." I wanted to send for the doctor, but he would
not let me. After a bit he seemed to get better, so we went
back to bed ; at 7 o'clock I went to his room and found him
still very ill, and he agreed to my sending for the doctor. On
clearing out his room the next day, I found clots of blood under
the washing-stand, so the thud I heard at 1 o'clock must have
been caused by his falling against the washing-stand, as his nose
arid face were cut about.
(Signed) [F. Williams] (pseudonym).
The doctor's statement, verified by reference to his professional
diary, is as follows :
November 26, 1916.
I was called at 3/45 a.m. on July 4th, 1916, to see Mr [R.
Stephen] at Cottage, . He had then recovered con-
sciousness (he had been unconscious for some considerable time),
and was suffering from the effects of rather severe haemorrhage
due to a wound caused by a fall.
[C. Barker] (pseudonym).
It will be observed that Dr. Barker differs from the cook
as to the hour at which he was called in. He is more likely
to be accurate in such a matter, bat the point is not important
for our present enquiry. There seems little doubt that Mr.
Stephen was first taken ill at about 1 a.m. on July 4, 1916,
and that he remained wholly or partially unconscious for some
hours.
Feb. -Mae., 191?. Oases.
'
'
^9
As to the date of the two dreams we have only the testi-
mony of Mr. and Miss Lawson, for, being " away from home
and among strangers," they had no natural opportunity of
mentioning their experience to any other person until after
they knew of Mr. Stephen's illness. But their statements
are consistent in all essentials, and may be held to corroborate
each other. They both agree that the dreams occurred
on the night of July 3-4, 1916, and that they related them to
one another at breakfast the next morning. They are not
likely to be mistaken in their clear recollection that they were
away from home upon that occasion, and since they returned
on July 5, there is good reason to think that they have
remembered the date of the dreams accurately, or at least
that this date was no later than the night of July 4-5. 1916.^
The\ had no normal knowledge of Mr. Stephen's illness until
the evening of July 5, 1916, after their return home.
Since no written record was made of the dreams until
November—after an interval of more than four months—their
memory of certain details may be inaccurate. But these details
are not essential to the value of the case. Both witnesses
agree that the central incident of the two dreams was the
serious illness of Mr. Stephen.
REVIEW.
The Reality of Psychic PJienomena : Ra-ps, Levitatioii, etc. By
W. J. Crawford, D.Sc. London: John M. Watkins, 1916,
pp. 248, price 4s. 6d. net.
This book, a great part of which has already appeared in a
series of articles in Light, gives an account of experiments carried
out by Dr. Crawford at seances for physical phenomena in a
family circle at Belfast—the medium being a member of the
family. Dr. Crawford attended as a visitor, not forming part
of the circle, and therefore free to move about ; and some of
the sittings took place at his own house. The phenomena con-
sisted of raps and of levitation of the table round which the
family sat.
The experiments were directed to ascertaining the source and
1 The possibility that the dreams occurred at a date prior to the night
of July 3-4, 1916, seems scarcely worth arguing. But we should have to
suppose in that case that they were premonitory.
So Journal of Society for Psychical UesearcK. Feb.-Mak., I9lf.
mode of action of the mechanical force at work. They showed
conclusively that the force emanated from the medium, and. in
the case of levitations, acted as though a cantilever attached
to the lower part of her body supported the table at its free
end. This Dr. Crawford speaks of as the cantilever theory.
A cantilever is a beam or similar object firmly attached at one
end to a wall or pillar and projecting more or less horizontally
into space at the other end. A bracket supporting a wide shelf
might be described as a cantilever, and so may the arm of a
crane. The cantilever which raises and supports the table Dr.
Crawford conjectures to be formed of invisible matter taken from
the medium's body and restored when the levitation is over.
But his experiments do not exclude—indeed some of them seem
to me to suggest—the more rationalistic hypothesis that the
cantilever in question is the leg and foot of the medium.
The arguments against this are chiefly two. First, Dr. Crawford
believes he would have seen the leg had it been used. It must
be remembered, however, that the light under the table was
very bad ; that the table itself must often have screened the
space in front of the medium's body from Dr. Crawford's view ;
and further, that his attention must often have been occupied
by the apparatus used in his experiments. The second argument
is that at times the cantilever appears to resist a much greater
force applied against it than one would have supposed possible
were it the medium's leg and foot. For example, on one occasion
(p. 63) Dr. Crawford and another man only just succeeded together
in pressing down the levitated table. There is clearly, therefore,
room for investigation. It would be interesting to know by
measurement what the force employed in pressing down the
table actually amounted to. It would also be interesting to know
exactly what was the direction,, relatively to the hypothetically
stretched-out leg, in which it was applied. If it was along the unbent
leg, the latter would act as a strut and could resist considerable
pressure. It seems possible that the phenomenon was of the
nature of some of those exhibited in the early nineties by a
Mrs. Abbott, known as " The little Georgia Magnet," and explained
by Sir Oliver Lodge in the S.P.R. Journal for December, 1891.^
She was a small woman, and one of her performances was,
Journal, Yo\. V. pp. 168-9. A fuller account of this lady's performances,
also by Sir Oliver Lodge, is quoted by Mr. Myers in Proceedings, Vol. XI.
pp. 219-222.
Feb. -Mae., 1917. Revieiv. 31
standing on one foot and holding up a billiard cue witli lier
two arms, to resist the force exercised by a strong man trying
to push her back by pressing on the billiard cue. Dr. Crawford
tells us (pp. 72, 73) that in the position preferred for the exhibi-
tion of the greatest resistance to force, the table is tilted up
on the two legs furthest from the medium at an angle to the
horizontal of about 40°. Also, great importance is attached to
its being neither too near to nor too far from the medium
(pp. 56, 57). It is obvious that such conditions might be very
favourable to resistance by the medium's leg and foot to con-
siderable force pressing on the table. E. M. S.
NOTES ON CUERENT PERIODICALS.
The Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research
for January and February contains a long criticism by Dr. Hyslop
of Mrs. Sidgwick's Report on The Psychology of Mrs. Piper s
Trance, published in Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXVIII. As Dr. Hyslop
states in a footnote, his paper was offered for publication in the
S.P.R. Proceedings, but it was thought too long for the pur-
pose, and a suggestion was made to him that he should con-
tribute a shorter article. This, however, he was unwilling to
do, as he did not feel that he could usefully deal with the subject
within the suggested limits. It was therefore decided that a
notice should be inserted in the Journal calling attention to
Dr. Hyslop's article.
Dr. Hyslop has many criticisms to bring against Mrs. Sidgwick's
Report, but it is not easy to make out to what extent he differs
from her fundamentally ; in one passage he himself speaks of
the difference between them being " mainly a difference in words."
He also criticises Mrs. Sidgwick's discussion of the " waking
stage " of the trance on the ground that
she wholly ignores those instances of it in which the supernormal occurs. . .
She ignores the fact that the supernormal is the imjjortant feature in
determining its general nature in connection with the elements that are not
supernormal. She ignores the fact that the best evidence for the super-
normal often came through in this condition, especially in proper names.
This criticism is hardly fair to Mrs. Sidgwick, who on p. 26
of her report, for instance, states that those who were responsible
for the management of the Piper sittings in England in 1906-1907
came to perceive that the waking-stage was of considerable
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Fkb.-Mar., 1917.
interest and likely to produce evidential matter." As to the
question of whether the supernormal is the important element
in determining the nature of Mrs. Piper's trance-phenomena.
Dr. Hyslop lays emphasis throughout his article on the necessity
in his opinion of " treating the case as a whole."
A theory that will explain the nonsense alone will not explain the super,
normal, but a theory which will explain the supernormal will have the right
to determine the explanation of the nonsense.
Dr. Hyslop also breaks a lance with Mrs. Sidgwick over her
" resolute opposition to '
possession '
theories " and her preference
for a telepathic explanation. As to his own theory of possession
which he puts forward as substantially the same as Dr. Hodgson's,
no more can be done here than to indicate by a few short
extracts the general lines on which it is built up.
In the first place, we do not know an3'thing about the process by which
we control our own motor system. We merely know that motor action
immediately follows mental states and volitions. ... It might well be the
.same with spirits and their mental states. Eliminate hy inhibition or other
methods the influence of the medium's consciousness on the motor organism
and transmit mental states to it, pictures, as we do in normal life, and the
same effect might take place with the complications of analogies with aphasia
and other ditficultiea. That is all that "possession" is, and the term is
only a convenient one to illustrate the difference between the pictographic
process in an appeal to the sensory functions and the so-called direct process
of direct action on the nervous sj'stem of the motor machinery . . .
{p. 36).
"Possession'" will thus be coterminous with all automatism whether motor or
sensory, provided the interpretative functions are excluded or reduced to a
minimum in the phenomena ... (p. 114).
Dr. Hyslop illustrates his theory by a reference to the case
of the Rev. P. H. Newnham (Proc, S.P.R., Vol. III., pp. 7 fE.),
which he classes as one of possession, because the mental questions
asked by Mr. Newnham were answered by Mrs. Newnham in
automatic writing, " by the motor, as distinct from the sensory
process."
Dr. Hyslop's general conclusion in regard to the Piper pheno-
mena seems to be that the "controls" are spirits who act by
" possession " directly upon Mrs. Piper's organism ; sometimes
her subliminal as well as her supraliminal consciousness is com-
pletely excluded, but more often there is some interfusion between
the medium's subliminal consciousness and the " control."
H. DE G. S.
No. CCCXXXVI.—Vol. XVIII. April, 1917.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
X- i. , PAGE
iNotiee of Meeting, 33
New Members and Associates, 34
Meeting of Council, 34
Jirratv.M in Proctediitgs, - -
34
The Presidential Address, 35
Editorial Note, 35
Cases, - -
35
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDAY, APRIL 261/1, igiy, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A DISCUSSION ON
" The Development of Different Types of
Evidence for Personal Survival
"
WILL BE OPENED BY
Mrs. henry SIDGWICK.
Miss F. M. Stawell and Sir Oliver Lodge will follow Mrs. Sidgwick, and
it is hoped that other Members of the Society also will take part in the discussion.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admissio?i are issued for this Meetitig. Members
atid Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
34 Joarnal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1917.
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Danson, F. C, -T.P., 74 Bidston Road, Birkenhead.
Dudley, James, Ifi University Mansions, Putney, London, S.W.
Festing, Miss E. A., New Road Cottages, Llanfyllin, Mont.
Smith, W. Whately, Rackenford Lodge, Weybridge, Surrey.
CoATES, Mrs., 57 Kensington Gardens Square, London, W.
CoNNAH, Charles, J.P., The Creek Ranch, Monitor, Alta, Canada.
Gatliff, Herbert E. C, 5th (R.) Bn. Coldstream Guards, Victoria
Barracks, Windsor.
Hart, Mrs. H. H., c/o Cox & Co., Bombay, India.
Hogg, Mrs. H. R., 23 Hornton Street, Kensington, London, W.
James, Mrs., Southwood, Barnt Green, Birmingham.
Lytton, Countess of, 10 Buckingham Street, London, S.W.
McViCKER, Mrs. John, Hotel Vanderbilt, New York City, U.S.A.
MiLBURN, Rev. R. Gordon, Black Bridge, Beaulieu, Hants.
Russell, Mrs., 68 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W.
Wales, Hubert, The Long House, Hindhead, Surrey,
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 146th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover Square,
London, W., on Tuesday, March 6th, 1917, at 4 p.m. ; Mr.
J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were also present
Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, Mr. E. N. Bennett,
Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Mrs.
Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Four new Members and eleven new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
ERRATUM IN PROCEEDINGS.
In Part LXXIII, of Proceedings, which appeared last month, on
p. 236 hve lines from the bottom the word "soldiers" has
Apkil, 1917. Tlie Presidential Address. 35
been substituted by a printer's error for " scholars." The text
should read : the instinctive judgement of trained scholars."
THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDEESS.
Our new President, Dr. L. P. Jacks, editor of the Hibhert
Journal and Principal of Manchester College, Oxford, will be
unable, owing to press of work, to deliver his presidential
address until June. It is hoped, however, that he may be
able to preside at the meeting on April 26 th.
EDITORIAL NOTE.
We have had a good many enquiries lately from members
who have not received their copy of the Journal at the time
when they expected it. We therefore take this opportunity
of letting our members know that for the present, and until
more normal conditions prevail, the Journal will not appear
each month. It will be printed at intervals of about two
months, the date of issue being chosen for the purpose of
giving members due notice of the Society's meetings. Our
reason for adopting this course is partly a lack of suitable
material for publication, but still more the great increase in
the cost of paper, and the consequent necessity for economy
in this direction.
CASES.
I.
L. 121L Telepathic Dream.
We have received the following case of what appears to be
a telepathic dream through Sir Oliver Lodge to whom it was
reported in the first instance. The dreamer is Mrs. Walter
Browett, of Westfield, Coventry, and the first account of her
experience which we received was as follows :
Statement by Walter Broicett of Westfield, Coventry, Solicitor.
January 30, 1917.
This morning at 8 a.m. my wife told me that she had had a
vivid dream about an aunt always referred to as " Auntie Maude."
She said she met her dressed in black with widow's weeds, and
she told my wife that her husband was dead.
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April, 1917.
My wife had not seen her for some years, but they exchanged
letters occasionally, the last letter being about a week ago on an
entirely trivial matter. My wife had never seen Auntie Maude's
husband to whom she was only married last October.
When we came down to breakfast we found a letter from Auntie
Maude, the contents of which are of no importance. It was
written and posted yesterday at a place near Shrewsbury. I
naturally remarked to my wife that that was the end of her
dream.
At 1.30 p.m. we received a telegram as follows :
" My husband
passed away last night. Auntie Maude." So far as we can
remember we had neither of us either spoken or thought of Auntie
Maude or her husband since last week.
Walter Browett.
In reply to our request for a first-hand report of her dream
from Mrs. Browett, we received the following statement :
Westfield, Coventry, February 19, 1917.
At the end of October 1916, my late mother's only sister,
Mrs. Short, to whom I always refer as " Auntie Maude," was
married to a Mr. G. M. Meire, Byton-on-Severn, Shrewsbury. I
have not seen her for several years, and I never saw him. On
the night of Monday-Tuesday, January 29th-30th, 1917, I dreamt
that I saw Auntie Maude in widow's weeds, and felt that her
husband was dead. I told my husband about it directly I awoke
and described her dress. At breakfast we found a letter from
her, from which apparently all was well. About 1.30 we received
a telegram from her as follows :
" My husband passed away last
night. Auntie Maude."
F. M. Browett.
We also wrote to Mr. Browett pointing out the importance
from an evidential standpoint of making it clear that Mr.
Meire's death was sudden and that neither he nor Mrs. Browett
had any reason to anticipate it. [n this connection we asked
Mr. Meire's age and we also asked whether the telegram an-
nouncing his death had been preserved. Mr. Browett replied
as follows :
Westfield, Coventry, February 19, 1917.
In reply to your letter of the 16th inst. I now enclose a state-
ment written and signed by my wife [see above].
April, 1917. Gases. 37
I also enclose tlie letter therein referred to and a letter from
Mrs. Meire dated tlie Htli inst., in which she describes the manner
of her husband's death on the 29th ult.
You will see that there was nothing in the first letter to suggest
that Mr. Meire's health was affected. As a matter of fact, we
knew that he used to rise at 6.30 to go round his farm, and when
I saw him—for the first and last time—at the wedding in London
he appeared to be a healthy man—slim and wiry. I went to
his funeral and then learnt that his age was 67. He had been
very active during the afternoon of the 29th and had said how
well he felt. . . .
The telegram was not kept, but it was only a " confirmation
"
one, the original message having been telephoned up here from
the Coventry G.P.O. I saw Mrs. Meire after the funeral and she
told me that she did not know that her husband had any heart
trouble.
Before mentioning my wife's dream to her, I asked her whether
her thoughts turned to any one in particular when her husband
died. She said :
" To you, of course. I said to myself I wish
Walter were here to help me." She said that she did not remember
thinking of my wife further than she would of necessity do
when thinking of me. My wife is her god-daughter and the only
one of the family with whom she is really intimate.
Walter Browett.
Of the two letters from Mrs. Meire to which Mr. Browett
refers above the earlier, dated January 29, 1917, and received
by Mrs. Browett on January 30 after she had told Mr. Browett
of her dream, makes only one reference to Mr. Meire, and
says nothing of hLs health. The second letter, dated February
14, 1917, which is too personal to print here, makes it evident
that Mr. Meire's death was quite unexpected. He died of
heart-failure about 11.30 p.m. on January 29, 1917, having been
to all appearances in good, normal health a few minutes before.
The fact that the telegram announcing his death to Mr.
and Mrs. Browett has not been preserved is of little moment.
The hour and day of the death are sufficiently established by
Mrs. Meire's letter of February 14, 1917, confirmed by the
announcement in the Times of Feb. 2, 1917, as follows :
Meire.—On the 29th Jan., at Eyton-on-Severn, near Shrews-
bury, George Haughton Meire, aged 67.
38 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Aphil, 1917.
Since Mrs. Browett related her dream to her husband at
8 a.m. oti January 30, 1917, before commg domi to breakfast,
we may consider it certain that she had at the time 110 normal
knowledge of Mr. Meire's death. The fact that Mrs. Meire is
Mrs. Browett's godmother and that her thoughts turned to
Mr. Browett at the time of her husband's death, wishing for
his presence and help, affords a natural basis for the telepathic
rapport which the dream seems to indicate.
G. 288. II.
In the following case, which has been sent to us through
Sir Oliver Lodge, evidence of identity was obtained in a
communication purporting to come from a spirit. The com-
munication was made through a professional medium, to whom
reference is made under the name of Mr. Z. in Sir Oliver
Lodge's paper on " Recent Evidence about Prevision and Sur-
vival " (Proc. S.P.R., Part LXXIL, pp. Ill ff.).
The spirit purporting to communicate was a son of Colonel
Macdonald, of 14 Bma Gardens, S.W., and we give first
Colonel Macdonald's account of the incident, as follows :
Junior United Service Club, London, S.W.,
December 23rd, 1916.
On 5th October, 1916, I was at supper at Colonel Cowley's
residence in Tufnell Park. Mr. [Z.], who had been asked to give
a private seance, was one of the party and at supper was seated
on my left. During the meal he said to me, " A boy who looks
to me about 25, dressed in the kilt, has just come in and is
standing now behind your chair—to me he seems to be your son."
He further described him to me as wearing the Black Watch
tartan (this was an error, but one easily enough made, especially
by a Londoner). My son was in the Argyll & Sutherland
Highlanders,^ and I said that it would not be the boy who had
been shot through the head near Ypres on 8th November, 1914.
Mr. [Z.] said, " I feel sure he is for you—he is trying to identify
himself and is showing me a large scar, three or four inches long,
on the left shin, looks to me as if it might be a football scar."
1 It should be noted, moreover, that the Black Watch and the Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders both wear the Sutherland tartan, but the Black Watch
kilt is pleated so as to show only the dark blue bars of the tartan. The Argj'lls
on the other hand, pleat the kilt so as to show the green bars mainly—hence
the statement that the boy was wearing the "Black Watch Tartan" was not
in fact inaccurate. —C. M.
April, 1917. Cases. 39
I replied that I have often seen the boy after swimming, etc.,
and that to my knowledge he had no such scar.
[Z.], however, remained very positive and said, " Well ! I feel
very sure he is for you, and if you make enquiries I think you
will find he had this scar—he smiles and shows it to me again."
Some two or three days after, I met on the staircase of my
house an old servant who had been the boy's nurse many years
ago, and I asked her if she remembered any such scar.
She said, " Yes, during the winter of 1910-11, while at Sand-
hurst, he had motored in to London for the week-end on leave."
—He used a motor-bike in those days.
—" The roads were still
covered with half-melted snow. The bike skidded and threw him.
The front wheel during the fall turned round and caught his leg
between the step and the wheel and gave his shin a very nasty
cut—five or six inches long. When he got home, about midnight,
he woke me up to bandage the wound before he turned in to
bed, as it was bleeding badly. Before bandaging I washed the
wound with Sanitas for fear of tetanus infection."'
I never saw the wound and had no knowledge of the scar, and,
therefore, had denied its existence to Mr. [Z.J—but he was right
and I was wrong.
There could have been no " thought reading " in this case, for
the idea that the boy had such a scar as described did not then
exist in my mind. In fact, I thought quite differently.
C. Macdonalp, Lt.-Col.
Certified that the above statement contains an accurate summary
of what took place on the occasion mentioned jv^
Cowlky
[A. Z.]
We have also obtained an independent statement from
Colonel Cowley as follows :
January lOth, 1917.
I was present at the seance and supper mentioned by Colonel
Macdonald, and can certify that his letter contains an accurate
statement of what took place.
Cowify
The following statement was obtained from the nurse to
whom Colonel Macdonald alludes above :
. H Bina Gardens, South Kensington, S.W.,
January 7, 1917.
I certify that I have read the above statement, that I personally
washed and dressed the wound referred to, and informed Col.
40 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. apkil, 1917.
Macdonald of the fact as recorded, and that the above is a true
statement of the case and that I am the " nurse " therein referred
to. I was not present at the stance and do not know Mr. [Z.]
and therefore cannot certify to that portion of the statement.
Eva Mowbray.
After receiving this statement we wrote to Colonel Macdonald
pointing out that the nurse did not say which leg was injured
and asking for further information from her on this point. In
reply she wrote to us as follows :
14 Bina Gardens, South Kensington, S.W.,
February 16, 1917.
I hereby certify the wound was on the left leg, about half-way
between the ankle and knee.
Eva Mowbray.
It thus appears that the medium, Mr. Z., was justified in
his assertion that the young soldier who wished to communicate
with Colonel Macdonald—apparently his son—had a scar on his
left leg. It came to our knowledge that upon another recent
occasion a spirit purporting to communicate through Mr. Z.
(in no way connected with Colonel Macdonald) had referred to
a scar on his right leg as a proof of identity. In this case
also it happened that the statement was correct, but this second
incident suggested that Mr. Z. might be in the habit of making
allusions to scars on the chance of scoring a hit. We have,
however, made enquiries of several people who have had sittings
repeatedly with Mr. Z. and they tell us that in their own
experience he has not referred to a scar. It appears likely
therefore that the occurrence of two recent cases in which a spirit
purporting to communicate through Mr. Z. has referred correctly
to a scar on one of his legs is merely a coincidence.
Whatever was the source of the medium's knowledge it does not
appear to have been Colonel Macdonald's mind, as he himself has
pointed out, and it is difficult to see upon what normal source
of information Mr. Z. could have drawn.
Upon this pomt Colonel Macdonald informs us that mitil the
evening of October 5, 1917, "I had never met or heard of
Mr. Z., no one of the company at the table or in the house
had acquaintance with my son, or knew him by sight."
No. CCCXXXVII.—Vol. XVIII. May-June, 1917.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and A.ssoci:\te.s, - - - 42
Meeting of the Council, - - - • 43
Private Meeting, ----- 43
Obituary Notice : Miss Jane Barlow, 4!i
Cases, .51
Eeview.<i : Sir W. F. Barrett's " On the Tlireshold o£ the Unseen," - - - - 58
Mr. Norman Pearson's ' The Soul and its Story," 60
Notes on Current Periodicals, 63
Correspondence, - - • 64
, NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE STEINWAY HALL,
LOWER SEYMOUR STREET, LONDON, W.,
On THURSDAY, JUNE 1917, at 4.30 p.m.
WHEN
A Presidential Address
ON
" The Theory of Survival read in the Light
of its Context
"
WILI, BE DELIVERED BY
L. P. JACKS, LL.D., D.D.
Members and Associates 7vill be admitted on signing their Names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each Member
or Associate is alloived to invite one friend.
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. mat-Jdne, 1917.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Beavis, P. E., North Lynn, 106 Highbury New Park, London, N. 5.
Festing, Major H. W., c/o Messrs. Holt it Co., 3 Whitehall
Place, London, S.W. L
Gardner, Rev. A. R. L., 52 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Little, Mrs., Park Hou.se, Whaley Bridge, Nr. Stockport.
Magrane, Mrs. Victor, 2 Holland Park Road, Kensington,
W. 14.
Mason, Miss, 211 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Moore, Mrs. Roland, 41 Rosary Gardens, London, S.W.
Upton, Miss Florence K., 21 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
Williamson, Mrs., 69a Lexham Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Andrews, Dr. Marion B., 17 University Square, Belfast.
Burnett, Miss Ethel, Crathes Castle, Crathes, N.B.
Carruther.s, Mrs. W., c/o Bank of Montreal, 9 Waterloo Place,
London, S.W. 1.
Davys, Major G. I., I.M.S., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., Hornby
Road, Bombay, India.
FfXKiN, Mrs., 119 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
Graham, Mrs. W. P. Gore, 23 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Hardwick-Terry, Mrs. E., Urquhart, Boxwell Road, Berkhamsted.
Hasler, Miss Kate M., East Mount, Brunswick Road, Douglas,
L of M.
HoLLOND, Mrs. John R., AVonham, Bampton, Devon.
HUNKIN, Rev. J. W., C.F., Headquarters, 29th D.A. ; and Gonville
and Caius College, Cambridge.
Inge, Miss Gladys, The Nurses' Home, Guy's Hospital, London,
S.E. 1.
Johns, Miss, 13 Longton Grove, Sydenham, London, S.E. 26.
Macnaghten, E. L., 37 Greycoat Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Matthews, Dr. Caroline, 13 Longton Grove, Sydenham, London,
S.E. 26.
McGusty, G. a., 12 Molesworth Street, Dublin.
Merlin, Rev. F. W. J., Highfiel.l, Huddersfield.
May-June, 1917. Meeting of the Council. 43
Raavsthorn, Mrs., Yew Tree.s, Ashton-on-Ribble, Preston.
Richmond, Kenneth, St. Merryn, North Cornwall.
Riley, Miss Mary, 6 Colin Street, Wigan.
Row, Miss Lilian M., 4 Moon Street, Wolverton, Bucks.
Stanhope, The Hon. Mrs. Fitzroy, 49 Onslow Square, London,
S.W. 7.
Woods, Miss C. E., 13 Cowley Street, Westminster, London,
S.W. 1.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 147th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, April 26th, 1917, at 3 p.m. ;
The President in the chair. There were also present : Mr.
W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, Rev. M. A. Bayfield,
Sir Lawrence Jones, Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. J. G. Piddington,
Mr. Sidney C. Scott, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Mrs.
Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Nine new Members and twenty-two new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for January-March, 1917, were presented
and taken as read.
The Council recorded with regret the death of Miss Jane
Barlow, a Member of the Society and of the Committee of
Reference and Publication.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
The 56th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held m the Council Chamber, at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, April 26th, 1917, at 4 p.m. ;
The President in the chair.
A discussion on " The Development of Different Types of
Evidence for Personal Survival " was opened by Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, and Miss F. M. Stawell contributed a criticism of
the evidence for survival contained m Mr. G. W. Balfour's
paper on The Ear of Dionysius. These papers, it is hoped, will
be published later in Proceedings. Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. Jacks,
Mr. Constable, and Sir William Barrett also took part hi the
discussion.
d2
44 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1917.
Eeport op the Discussion.^
Sib, Oliver Lodge : Mrs. Sidgwick's paper is judicial, hold-
ing the balance even ; Miss Stawell's paper is an example of
extreme orthodoxy. But with regard to myself, I am on the
extreme left ; for you know, I have given myself away, and
have come definitely to the conclusion that survival is a fact
and that communication with the dead is in a certain sense
proven. Hence, that being admittedly so, you can discount
what I say !
Miss Stawell, whose sceptical paper is a very fair one, is
impressed with the doctrine of chance-coincidence. She refers
to a case when a number of people were asked to write at
random and she found one piece of writing that corresponded
to her own state of mind and might have been communicated
by a dead friend. Note the difference between that case and
the ordinary case of mediumistic communications. She had not
picked out that one individual and tried to get communications
from her friend. She had taken the writing by chance and
found something in it that corresponded to her own mind.
She chose it out of 30 pieces. Suppose she had taken it
from 30,000, there would have been still more possibility of
chance-coincidence ; sooner or later the coincidence was bound
to occur. And you cannot draw conclusions from one instance.
Then she speaks of the strange lapse of memory that appears
in the script which Mr. Balfour calls " Script D," where the
communicator seems to think that all that had been said on
the subject of Dionysius' ear ought to have been known by
Mrs. Verrall. So far from there being a strange lapse of
memory, I think it is a natural one, owing to the long interval
of time. At first, and during the setting of the problem, they '
had specially said that Mrs. Verrall was not to be informed,
in order to avoid telepathy. But no solution was obtained,
and perhaps the communicators practically forgot the whole
matter. Then came Mrs. Verrall's sitting with "Mrs. Willett,"
and memory revived. " What about the Ear of Dionysius ?
"
they said. " You've got that clear, we hope ?
" The whole
incident seems to me human and natural, and there is nothing
strange about it.
' This report gives only the substance of what was said ; it is not verhatim.
Mat-June, 1917. Private Meeting. 45
Another contention in the paper is that "Mrs. Willett
"
was interested in the Ear of Dionysius and concerned with
this kmd of thing. But m fact she is not at all interested
in such things, and it is natural that, although she had heard
the name Dionysius under control, she did not remember
anything about it afterwards.
Then Miss Stawell says that she had often come across
Philoxenus ui her reading, but he is mentioned in such a very
incidental manner that only those familiar with the name would
notice it. The name has been brought to her mind now and
she sees it everywhere, but it would have made no impression
on her before. She says, too, that Mrs. Verrall must have
come across Philoxenus in her studies and may have forgotten
it ; this would not be so strange, Miss Stawell thinks, as her
forgetting the Ear of Dionysius. But the Ear of Dionysius is
not a classical reference ; the name is medieval, and that is
probably why Mrs. Verrall did not know anything about it.
But her knowledge of the whole subject of Philoxenus is
hypothetical^—Dr. Verrall 's knowledge of these things is certain.
Hence, when we receive from a medium a communication
purporting to come from Dr. Verrall, it is a simpler hypothesis
to say that it comes from one who did know the subject of
the communication than from one to whom it was foreign.
The script moreover shows considerable effort and design,
foreign to Mrs. Verrall, but quite appropriate to Dr. Verrall,
and it is to be remembered that, when Mrs. Verrall did see
this script, it did not brmg up any previous knowledge.
Supposing she had had any knowledge, she had a much
more serious lapse of memory than anything shown by the
commmiicator.
As regards the evidence in general : the evidence referred to
by Mrs. Sidgwick has, it has been noted, all come from non-
professional mediums, the only exception being Mrs. Piper, who
for all practical purposes is a non-professional medium, that
is, she did not sit for strangers. Professor Barrett brought
forward telepathy in a paper read before the British Association
in 1876. His paper was read but not published, as the evidence
was not accepted. That attitude is not new. Fresh dis-
coveries are always regarded with suspicion mitil the atmosphere
is ready for them. The fact of telepathy has been established
46 journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1917.
by the Society, and, as Mrs. Sidgwick says, it constitutes a
very important link hi the chain of evidence. It tends to
show that mental activity is not dependent upon the body. I
think there are certain people in spiritualistic circles who do not
yet realise the importance of telepathy from their point of view.
But how m telepathy is a mental impression conveyed from one
person to another ? Take the Honolulu episode in " Kaymond."
The family group in Birmingham asked Raymond to give the
word " Ho]iolulu " at a sittmg in London, and the word was
given. Now that is what we should call a telepathic experi-
ment. But what appeared to be the dramatic explanation was
that Raymond was in touch with both places and was asked
to convey the word. My point is this : it is a case of tele-
pathy, but it may be explained by a certain intermediary,
an individual personality who conveyed the message.
The evidence for survival appears to be of several different
kinds : there is the domestic type with personal touches, and
the scholarly type (as in the Dionysius case). There is also
the cross-correspondence type, both of the simple and of the
complex variety, and the cross-correspondence type is extremely
important—more so than men realise. There is a great deal
of it, and it requires a great deal of study. The simple cases
are what people are asking for, but the complex cases are
more valuable and show the desire of the operators to exclude
ordinary telepathy. They give apparently meaningless com-
munications that require a great deal of analysis and dis-
section before the meaning comes out. Then there is the
posthumous letter kind, to which Mrs. Sidgwick referred m
her paper. So far this kind has failed, and I think it will
continue to fail. I think that those on the other side want
us not to attribute much importance to it. Mr. Piddington's
"Sevens" case^ shows that leakage is possible. The fact is
that crucial proof is seldom to be obtained and always to be
mistrusted. I think that Sir William Barrett will agree that
in science we often get what we think crucial proof, —it is some-
times very convincing,—but we find afterwards that it ought
not to have been convhicing—there was a flaw which we had
not perceived. The real proof I of all scientific theories is
cumulative, and no theory is established before- proceeding to
iSee Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXIV., p. 222 ft'.
Mat-June, 1917. Private Meeting. 47
act upon it. We are guided by probability more than we know.
Most of our theories are working hypotheses ;
they are
accepted, they will be changed, they will be much changed,
and are ready to be changed—they hold the field for the time
being and they are acted upon as working hypotheses. A
sound working hypothesis is what I consider to have been
reached in the matter of survival.
The evidence keeps on growing. Every week I mtroduce a
complete stranger to some medium, and every week those
bereaved persons get into touch with their relations. Without
the slightest clue the communicators are eager to get through
to bring comfort, m order that the people left behind may look
forward to reimion. That is not done for evidence, but evidence
follows ; so a hypothesis gets more and more bolstered up,
until it becomes established.
Mrs. Sidgwick's paper concluded with some practical advice
to those who interest themselves m psychical matters or are
intending to visit mediums, and with this advice I heartily
concur. I think that the conclusion to which I have arrived
is that it is one universe all the time, not two—but there is a
-yeil between them, caused by the limitation of our senses.
Dr. Jacks : 1 do not cj^uite know whether I should be
considered to be on what Sir Oliver Lodge has called the left
side or the right in regard to the question of the evidence
for survival. I feel that I have certain grounds for believing
in survival independent of those that are investigated by
"this Society. And that being so, 1 am open to evidence
which corroborates a belief independently held. And I find
it easy to interpret a great deal of the evidence in terms of
that belief; but I must confess that if I had not this inde-
pendent belief, I doubt whether the evidence so far accumu-
lated by the Society would convince me of survival. 1 admit
that it is impressive and ought to be carefully weighed by the
most sceptical ; but in spite of what Sir Oliver Lodge has
said, I cannot say that 1 think it is conclusive. An
ingenious person, who had no independent belief in survival,
^and still more an ingenious person who was determined to
•explain away the evidence, would not have very much diffi-
culty in getting round the evidence so far obtained. I have
d3
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mat-June, 1917_
often tried to frame a conception of what really convincing;
evidence would be. What would be the kind of evidence
that would settle the question once and for all ? I confess
I have never been able to form a conception of evidence
of this kind that could not be got round by manoeuvring and
ingenuity. Not that 1 approve of manoeuvring and ingenuity
in dealing with matters of this kind, but still, I think you
will find it is as I say, if you make the experiment. The
will to disbelieve is quite as active as the will to believe.
Build up a case of evidence as strong as you can make it.
for survival, and then exercise your ingenuity by trying to
get round it, and I think you will always be able to do so.
Of course, I assume that everyone concerned is perfectly
genuine. You might even try this experiment. Try to pro-
duce conclusive proof that you are the same person that left
your own door this afternoon to come to this meeting—a proof
that no one can throw doubt upon. I think you will not be
able to do it.
We have already seen in Miss Stawell's paper how the hypo-
thesis of telepathy, if worked for all it is worth, will enable you
to give another explanation of this evidence. Although the
person who receives the communication may have no know-
ledge of the matter communicated to him, you cannot
prove that knowledge of that matter has not been introduced
into his mind in some way without his knowing whether it is
there. He does not know what be knows. By following that
line of argument you can invalidate any e\'idence. Take the
question of imposture. Mediums are not the only impostors.
How about the communicators ? Are they masquerading ?
You can have no absolute proof that there is no imposture
on the other side.
I think that the whole meaning of personal identity needs
to be very carefully thought out and considered before we
begin to produce evidence in favour of personal identity.
In my own mind, personal identity is almost synonymous with
personal continuity. Our personal identity largely consists in
the fact that we are able at every moment to take up our
life at th^ poiat at which we left it off. There is always a past,
and it is my own particular past which makes me what I
am. Personal identity involves a certain age.
Mat-June, 1917. Private Meeting. 49
Now suppose a man dies at the age of 50, at what age does
he come to life in the next world ? Has he no past behind
him when he passes into the next world ? If anybody talks
about the mature personality coming to life in the next world
without any past, he is talking nonsense. If he has no past,
he has no personality. It seems to me that one of the most
important tasks that await this Society is not so much to
establish the identity of the spirits, but to establish the con-
tinuity of life in the next world with this life, or conceivably
with some other life.
Mr. Constable argued that when we treat this subject as a
fight between those who believe in survival and those who do
not, we make a great mistake. He had lately been reading
Professor William James's The Varieties of Religious Experience,
and in that book the author says that ecstasy is part of
human experience. There is no loss of personality in ecstasy
—^there is merely a transcendence. Kant says the personality
of man is a transcendental subject which is purely spiritual
and has nothing to do with past, present or future. If that
be true, then those who support survival have a very strong
backing. ,
.
Sir William Barrett gave an account of an interesting
case of evidence for survival, which he said would be mcludsd
in his forthcoming book.
OBITUARY.
MISS JANE BARLOW, D.Litt.
In the recent death of Miss Jane Barlow the Society has lost
an early, a very gifted and valued member. For more
than a quarter of a century Miss Barlow took a keen and
active interest in our work, and for many years the Committee
of Reference and Publication had the advantage of her co-
operation and suggestions. Her intimate knowledge of the Pro-
ceedings of the Society and her sound judgment rendered her
opinion always worth having. But she was so modest and
50 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, mat-June, 1917.
retiring that only those who knew her well could form a true
estimate of the rare insight and the wide range of knowledge
she possessed.
Few writers of the present day have been able to express
their ideas in such perfect literary form as Miss Barlow ; not
a word in any of her published writings, or in her private
correspondence—with its minute and beautiful script—could be
omitted or be replaced by another word without detracting
from the meaning. The present writer has heard such com-
petent literary critics as Lord Morley and Frederic Myers
express their unbounded admiration for the distinction of Miss
Barlow's style, and the grace and charm of her Irish stories.
It was through her short stories of Irish peasant life that she
became widely known to the outside public, and won a fame
that will long endure. Irish Idylls, Bog-land Studies, A Creel
of Irish Stories, Strangers at Lisconnel, Maureen s Fairing, Kerri-
gan's Quality, and her many other volumes of short stories, reveal
the true Irish atmosphere and depict with wonderful fidelity
the pathetic, lovable, generous nature of Irish peasant life, spent
amid the dreary stretches of moor and bog. It is true that her
stories scarcely touch upon the religious aspect of the humble
lives she narrates, which is so strong a characteristic of the
Irish peasantry. But this omission was possibly due to her
artistic instinct, and anxiety to avoid any trace of religious
disputation. Otherwise these stories afford a true and wonderful
revelation of Irish character, through incidents which in any
less gifted writer would be considered trivialities. Mac's
Adventures is a gem. a more charming boy was never created
by any novelist, and, as a reviewer in the Standard said, " we
grudge every moment that is not spent in Mac's inimitable
company."
In her poems as well as in her prose writings Miss Barlow
reveals the refined and cultured nature of her personality. She
was an omnivorous reader and learned beyond most women
;
it is said (and it may be true enough) that she often conversed
in Greek with her father, who was the well-known Senior
Fellow and Vice-Provost of Trinity College, Dublin ; he also
was a deeply interested member of our Society, a man of the
most prodigious and varied learning, and, like his daughter, a
good musician.
May-June, 1917. Obituary Notice. 51
Miss Barlow's insight into Irish character must have been
an instinct rather than the result of acquired knowledge ; for
she had the most shrinking shy personality, rarely straying
beyond the shelter of her beautiful home near Dublin except
for the long country rambles in which she delighted. So
deep and true was her revelation of the character of the Irish
peasant with its strange contradictions, that those who only
knew her writings thought she had always lived among the
humble folk she describes. She had no small talk and seemed
utterly oblivious of outward things, yet so keen and rapid was
her observation that she seized upon any passing incident and
wove it into a touching and beautiful story. Among the
large collection of letters which she addressed to the present
writer are many really worthy of publication, for they
contam flashes of humour along with keen philosophic insight
and glimpses of matters of the deepest import. When the
University of Dublin threw open its degrees to women. Miss
Barlow was one of the first to receive the highest honorary
distinction that ancient seat of learning could bestow.
Slight in appearance with large and deep-set eyes she looked
as if the flame of genius and thought had almost burnt out
her physical frame, so frail was she. Deeply affectionate, she
was devoted to her father and during the long illness which
ended in his death a few years ago, she hardly ever left his
bedside except to snatch a few moments of rest. His death,
and this long and devastating war, made her weary of the
present life, and the long cold winter brought on the fllness
which caused her death in April last at the age of sixty-five.
W. F. B.
CASES.
I.
L. 1212. Telepathic Dream.
The following accomit of a waking vision, which appears to
have been connected with the death of an ofl&cer at the front,
has been sent to us through Sir Oliver Lodge. The percipient
was Dr. George Johnston, of 23 Seymour Street, W.. and his
original report of his experience was as follows :
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mat-Jdne, 1917.
23 Seymour Street, Portman Square, W.,
March 15, 1917.
My son, Lieut. Alec Leith Johnston, of the 1st King's Shropshire
L.I., was killed at daybreak on Saturday, April 22nd, 1916.
At daybreak on the next morning, Easter Sunday, about
24 hours after his death took place, when I was lying half awake
and half asleep, I had the vision or dream, an account of which
follows.
I saw two soldiers in khaki standing beside a pile of clothing
and accoutrements which, in some way, I knew to be Alec's, and
my first feeling was one of anger and annoyance that they should
be meddling with his things, for they were apparently looking
through them and arranging them. Then one of them took up
a khaki shirt which was wrapped round something so as to form
a kind of roll. He took hold of one end of it and let the rest
drop so that it unrolled itself and a pair of heavy, extremely
muddy boots fell out and banged heavily on the floor, and some-
thing else fell which made a metallic jingle. I thought " That is
his revolver," but immediately afterwards thought "No, it is too
light to be his revolver, which would have made more of a clang."
As these things fell out on to the floor the two men laughed,
but a sad wistful kind of laugh with no semblance of mirth in
it. And then the words " Alec is dead and they are going through
his kit," were most clearly borne in upon my mind. They were
not spoken and I heard no voice, but they were just as clear as
if I had done so. And then I became fully awake with these
words repeating themselves in my mind and with the fullest
conviction of their truth which I never lost. I suppose I still
tried to persuade myself that it might not be true, but it was
useless and when the official telegram arrived it only confirmed
what I already knew. George Johnston.
In a letter of the same date, March 15, 1917, Dr Johnston
adds the following comments on his statement :
. . . Two points have to be borne in mind in estimating the importance
of the dream as an intimation of my son's death and not as a
mere coincidence.
(1) He went out to the front in October, 1914, and was there
continuously (with three short leaves) until his death on April 22nd,
1916—Easter Saturday. During these eighteen months I never had
Mat-Jcne, 1917. Cases. 53
any dream or any impression of his being in serious danger,
although I often knew that he was in the midst of hard fighting
and he was wounded in three places in August, 1915, at Hooge.
(2) At the time when I had the dream I was under the impres-
sion that his battalion was resting and that they would not be
in the fighting line until the middle of the week. Hence my mind
was quite easy about him and I was not feeling at all anxious.
In the ordinary course of events they were not due in the trenches
until the Wednesday, but they were unexpectedly called upon on
the evening of Good Friday to move up at once to recapture a
"trench which had been taken by the Germans some days before.
It was after having accomplished this, and whilst the position was
being consolidated, that he was killed.
I have never in my life had any dream so vivid as this one
was, and when I saw in the Sunday papers that his battalion had
accomplished this " fine feat," as they called it, I had no doubt
whatever that my boy was dead. When the ofl&cial telegram came
on the Wednesday I felt that it was hardly necessary to open it. . . .
I shall always think (as a nephew does to whom I told my
dream on the Sunday afternoon), that this vision was Alec's way
of letting me know what had happened.
A minor point that may be worth noticing is that when I heard
the metallic clink when the shirt unrolled and let its contents
fall on the floor, I at first thought " That is his revolver," but
then immediately thought the noise was too " jingly " to be made
by the fall of a heavy service Colt such as he had. When his
things came home, however, I found that instead of having a Colt
he had a light French aiitomatic pistol which, in falling, would
have made exactly such a sound as I heard.
I do not suppose that his kit was actually being gone through at
the time of my dream, nor do I think that it makes much difierence
whether it were so or not. But the regimental surgeon (since
killed himself) who came to see me early in June told me that
he believed that they really were going through Alec's things about
the time of my dream. George Johnston.
In a subsequent letter he writes :
March 2m, 1917.
. . . The only person whom I told the dream to, before the
arrival of the War Office telegram, was my nephew who was here
on Sunday, the 23rd April [1916].
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1917.
I enclose the letter which he sent me when he had definite news
of Alec's death.
I also enclose a copy of part of a letter which the regimental
surgeon (since killed) wrote to his father. I do this in order to
show the conditions under which the attack was made, especially
as to mud.
One does not want to read too much into such an experience,
but I have often thought that what I saw had a certain amount
of symbolism in it. The fact that the boots which fell out of
the roUed-up shirt were so exceedingly muddy, and that the other
thing which dropped out was, as I at first thought, bis revolver,,
point to the terribly muddy conditions of the attack and to the-
fact that it tvas an attack, for otherwise the revolver would not
have been carried. But this is a minor point.
George Johnston.
The letter from Dr. Johnston's nephew, Mr. N. C. Raid, to
which reference is made above, began as follows :
May 4, 1916.
I hear that Alec has died at Ypres. Your dream has come
true. Alec appears to have been trying to let you know. . . .
N. C. Reid.
The reference in the above letter to Dr. Johnston's dream
implies that Mr. Reid had heard of it before he heard of
Lieut. Johnston's death, but we asked also for an independent
statement from Mr. Reid that Dr. Johnston had related his
dream to him on the day on which it occurred, April 23, 1916,
before Dr. Johnston himself knew of its verification. In reply
Mr. Reid wrote as follows :
. •
2/7 Essex Regt., Harrogate, Yorks,,
Afril 3, 1917.
I have been asked by my uncle. Dr. George Johnston, to send
you a statement to the effect that he told me of the dream or
vision which he had of his son's death before actual confirmation.
This I can do.
I was spending the afternoon of Easter Sunday last year (April 23,
1916) at his house, and while at tea he came in from paying a
professional visit somewhere.
After tea he spoke to me of his dream. I regret to say I
cannot remember all he said, but I do recollect his saying he saw
Mat-June, 1917. Gases. 55
two officers looking over and packing his son's kit. He was angry
at their meddling, but it suddenly dawned upon him that his son
was dead. Whether Alec Johnston appeared in the dream I forget.
Some days afterwards I heard that Alec Johnston was dead,
confirmation having reached him, Dr. Johnston, on a date after
the 23rd April. N. C. Reid.
As regards the circumstances under which Lieut. Johnston
lost his life, we print below extracts from the letter to which
Dr. Johnston refers on March 2-5, written by the regimental
s^^geo^ :
April 27th, 1916.
. . . You will have seen by the papers about the gallant attack
the Btn. made the other night to retake some trenches lost by
another Btn. It was as the Army Commander said, " A magni-
ficent feat of arms," and you can guess what the higher command
thought of it when they honoured the regiment by mentioning
them by name—an honour which has only been paid twice all
the time out here. Unless one is on the spot though one could
not realise the conditions under which the attack was made or
the apparently hopeless job it seemed. I don't think any other
Btn. could have done it. The mud, to take one point only, was
so deep that the men had to throw themselves down and crawl
—putting their rifles and bombs ahead a few feet and then
struggling up to them. Of course the rifles were so covered
with mud that they could not shoot, so the men just struggled on
till they could use the bayonet. We had men utterly engulfed
in the mud and suffocated. It was a glorious achievement, and
the cost was heavy. . . . Johnston—who used to write " At the
Front " in Punch—was shot through the heart gallantly super-
intending his company consolidating the captured position. As
dawn broke he was so busy with so much to see to that he would
not take cover, but kept on wallcing from end to end of the
trench over the top to save time. He was picked off by a sniper.
T. I.
In a letter to Dr. Johnston from one of Lieut. Johnston's
fellow-ofl&cers, giving an account of his death, the muddy
condition of the ground is again emphasised. He writes :
Mmj 7, 1916.
... As you know the conditions were simply awful. Pitch dark,
and wading up to our waists in mud. . . .
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mat-Jdne, 1917.
It appears from the evidence given above that at the time when
Dr. Johnston had the dream which he regarded as an intimation
of his son's death, Lieut. Johnston had been dead about twenty-
four hours. It is a strong point in favour of the assumption
that some other factor than chance-coincidence was involved,
that during the year and a half that his son had been at the
front Dr. Johnston had had no other similar impression about
him, and that on April 23, 1916, he had reason to believe that
Lieut. Johnston was temporarily out of danger.
If it is the fact that Lieut. Johnston's kit was being examined
at about the time of Dr. Johnston'." dream, it may be that he
received an impression of an actual scene which took place.
But it seems more probable, as he suggests, that the dream
was a piece of symbolic imagery representing the fact, tele-
pathically conveyed to him, that his son had been killed in
the attack on the previous day.
We are indebted to Dr. Johnston for the trovible he has
taken in providing us with evidence for which we asked, and
for permission to use his name.
n.
L. 1213. Telepathic Impression.
The following case of what appears to have been a telepathic
impression has been sent to us through Mr. G. Lowes Dickin-
son, whose sister was the percipient.
Miss Dickinson's original statement was as follows :
11 Edwardes Square, W. 8.
[Aj)ril 3, 1917.] i
On Thursday, March 29th, 1917, I was upstairs at 8.30 a.m.
and the front-door bell rang. I said to myself that it must be
my cousin, Harry Dickinson, come to tell me his mother was ill.
When the maid came up a few minutes later, I asked her what
the ring at the bell was. She replied that it was a telegram for
Mr. G. I said to her, " I thought it was Mr. Harry Dickinson
come to tell me his mother was ill." I went out at 8.45 for
the rest of the morning, returning about 12.30. When I came
^ In reply to a question as to when this account was written. Miss Dickinson
informed us :
" I wrote out my account a few days after [the incident]
happened, but I do not remember the exact date—I should think April 3rd."
mTjDNB, 1917. Gases. 57
in, tlie maid said to me, " Mr. Harry Dickinson has been to ask
you to go and see his mother, who is ill." I said " What time
did he come." B. F. replied, " About 11 o'clock."
I had not been thinking of my aunt, nor do I often see her, but
March or April, 1916, my cousin came round about 8.30 a.m. to
ask me the same thing. Janet Lowes Dickinson.
We have also obtained the following statement from Miss
Dickinson's maid :
11 Edwardes Square, W. 8.,
[AprU U, 1917.]
On Thursday, March 29th, 1917, I went upstairs soon after
8.30 a.m. and Miss Janet asked me what the ring at the bell
was. I said it was a telegram for Mr. G. She said, " I thought
it was Mr. Harry Dickinson come to tell me his mother was ill."
Miss Janet went out soon after, and when she came in about
12.30, I said, " Mr. Harry Dickinson came this morning to ask you
to go and see his mother, who is ill." Miss Janet said, " What
time did he come," and I said, " About 11 o'clock."
Ethel Fawkes.
Miss Dickinson has also sent us the following letter from
Mr. Harry Dickinson, who appears to have been the agent in
the case :
222 GoLDHAWK Road, Shepherd's Bush,
London, W., April 8, 1917.
With reference to our conversation of to-day's date, when you
told me that you had a strong impression of my mother's illness
on the morning of 29th ult., I can say that some time between
8 a.m. and 9 a.m. on that day I was in great anxiety of mind
and was considering calling round and asking you to sit with her.
As you will remember I called round the same morning at about
11 a.m. with that intention and found that you had gone out.
My anxiety (apart from her illness) was based on the fact that I
was obliged to finish certain work at once, and that I could not
leave her alone all day in the condition she was in at the time.
My mother also wished me to call for you.
Harry Dickinson.
Miss Dickinson mentions in her original statement that about
a year before her cousin had come to her early in the morning
to ask her to go to his mother who was ill, and we, therelore,
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1917.
asked whether Mr. H. Dicldnson had done this on more than
one previous occasion, and whether, on March 29, 1917, Miss
Dickinson had any reason to think that her aunt was ilL
Miss Dickinson replied to these questions as follows :
Afra 23 [1917].
1. I did not know my aunt was ill ; she was only taken ill the-
night before.
2. My cousin had not sent for me since March or April, 1916.
Janet L. Dickinson.
It, therefore, appears that (a) on the morning of March 29,,
1917, Miss Dickinson had no special reason tor expecting that
Mr. H. Dickinson would send for her to sit with his mother
(6) at about the time, 8.30 a.m., when she had the impression
that he had come, he was thinking of coming and actually
came a few hours later.
KEVIEWS.
On ike Threshold of the Unseen : An Examination of the Phenomena of
Spiritualism and of the Evidence for Survival after Death. By SiE
AViLLlAM Barrett, F.R.S. (Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co.
Ltd., London. 6s. 6d. net.)
Over twenty years ago, Sir William Barrett gave an address in London
which he expanded into book-form under the title On the Threshold
of a New World of Thought. An edition was printed ofi in 1895, but
publication was postponed in consequence of the adverse report of
the Cambridge investigators of Eusapia Paladino, concerning whose
earlier phenomena the book as prepared gave a favourable account.
Further evidence indicating the genuineness of some of Eusapia's
phenomena having been obtained, the book appeared in 1908, and
was soon sold out. Again Sir William cautiously waited, rather than
publish a new edition, in order that he might see the results of the
S.P.R. investigations in " cross-correspondences " and the like ;
and,
these having now confirmed the indications of earlier evidence, the
volume under notice was prepared by recasting and enlarging its
forerunner.
After dealing with objections based on materialistic or ecclesi-
astical presuppositions or on the " triviality " of the evidence, Sir
William gives an account of some of his experiments with a little
girl—daughter of an English solicitor of high standing—in whose
May-June, 1917. Reviews. 59
presence loud raps and other noises occurred, keeping time with
music or spelling out messages which, however, always suggested
the child's own mentality ; and though the communicator claimed
to be a lad named Walter Hussey, the spelling of the messages
reproduced the characteristic mis-spellings of the medium. The
author leaves open the question of source, but is sure that the
raps require a supernormal explanation of some sort. Also heavy
tables were moved in a manner requiring far more force than the
child could normally exert. Sir William describes other cases
with a different but equally non-professional medium, Miss L.,
whose raps similarly gave messages suggestive of the medium's own
mental make-up. All these phenomena were obtained in a good
light, sometimes in the morning of a bright sunny day, and the
mediums readily agreed to any test-conditions that were proposed.
Further confirmation was supplied by phenomena witnessed at
JBelfast, through the non-professional mediumship of Miss Kathleen
Ooligher, which is being studied by Dr. Crawford. Sir William
saw the table rise and remain suspended eighteen inches above the
floor, in a good light and with no one touching it. He tried
to press it down, and failed ; then climbed on it and sat there,
with feet off the floor, until he was tipped off. These and other
remarkable phenomena were accompanied by raps showing intelli-
gence, as in other cases.
Turning to automatic writing. Sir William describes the investi-
gations of a small private circle of his friends in Dublin, who
repeatedly obtained veridical ouija-messages concerning things
unknown to the operators, who moreover were sometimes blindfolded
and the alphabet letters redistributed in positions unknown to
them. Thus clairvoyance or some external agency seems to be
indicated. In one striking case an officer cousin of one of the
sitters purported to communicate, asking that his pearl tie-pin
should be given to the girl he would have married if he had lived.
A full name was written, but it was unknown to the sitters, who
^were also unaware of any engagement. It was found to have
existed, however, and the lady's name was the name written by
ouija : and a pearl tie-pin was found among the officer's belongings.
On the other hand, some of the " communications " were
apparently quite fictitious, as is so often the case with most
automatists.
In addition to these and other first-hand experiences, Sir William
sketches the history of psychical research from his first experiments
60 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Mat-June, 1917.
in telepathy over forty years ago to the present time, quoting
from many records of the most prominent workers, and discussing
telepathic and other difficulties. He avows his own firm conviction
that human personality survives bodily death, while wisely remark-
ing that the investigation is not for everyone, and that it is a
science, not a religion. The psychical order is not the spiritual
order ;
spiritual advancement is by the inner not the outer way ;
by the first-hand personal apprehension of God. But psychical
research gets round materialism, and thus paves the way for
rational as well as intuitive religious belief.
Of the founders of the S.P.R., Sir William Barrett is now the
only one still with us, and of the original Vice-Presidents he and
Mr. A. J. Balfour are the only two remaining. These facts lend
special interest to a volume by the veteran worker to whom all
who have been helped by the S.P.R. are indebted. And, being
critical in method and popular in style, it will do excellent service
in training up the general public in the way it should go.
J. A. H.
The Soul and its Story A Sketch by NoRMAN Pearson. London,
Edward Arnold. 1916. Pp. xx, 316.
Though Mr. Pearson is hardly a profound or original philo-
sopher, he discourses pleasantly enough about a large variety
of interesting subjects (from the disembodied souls of dissociated
molecules and the inheritance of acquired characteristics to the
free-will puzzle and philosophic Absolutes) which are more or
less connected with the question of the soul's immortality. Of
this belief he is very anxious to convince himself, and he duly
arrives at the conclusion that there is nothing in any of the
topics he speculates about to prevent him from being immortal.
He is also amiably disposed to concede immortality to others,
indeed to " the vast majority of the human race," though
" extinction may be the fate of an unfortunate few " who
persistently rebel against the divine order of things and get so
shattered in consequence that they are " resolved once more
into the mind-stuff " out of which they were wrought (p. 315),
Mr. Pearson's speculations will not improbably appeal to those
who are willing to believe in the doctrine he advocates, but are
hardly calculated to transform the logical aspects of the question,,
which depends on obscure and disputed facts rather than on
speculations however ingenious. So even a sympathizer with.
Mat-June, 1917. Reviews. 61
his aim may feel that he hardly digs deep enough to undermine
his opponents' arguments or to clinch his own.
For one thing his method is too eclectic. It is as impossible
to make the lion lie down with the lamb in the intellectual as
in the physical sphere. The materialist cannot be made to agree
with the spiritualist by selecting passages they can both assent
to. Neither will the a priori metaphysician and the empirical
researcher sanction each other's methods.
Secondly, it is not much use to accept popular notions un-
criticized. The facts, e.g., that we are in the habit of describing
biological history as an '
evolution ' and flatter ourselves that
we have '
progressed,' yield no scientific guarantee of any necessity
either that '
progress '
must continue or that living beings must
develop on the same lines as heretofore. To regard it as such
a guarantee is either a fallacy or at best an '
over-belief.'
What is still more serious, Mr. Pearson omits to explain what
he means by a soul. He calls it a '
substance '
indeed, and
apparently means by '
substance '
a substratum or " permanent
something in the background " (pp. 225, 227 ; of. p. 86). But
he does not discuss the difficulties many philosophers have found
in this notion of substance nor the alternative view which makes
'
substance '
a product of activities, though he just mentions the
possibility of conceiving the soul as an activity (p. 212). Nor
does he make it clear how he stands with regard to the corollaries
of attributing the old notion of '
substance '
to the soul. Would
he agree that it follows from it that the '
soul '
is also simple
and immutable ? And that what is simple must be immortal,
because it cannot be dissolved into parts which it has not got ?
If he accepts these deductions, he is hardly entitled to the verdict
he passes on the empirical evidence of multiple personality (ch-
xviii.), viz. that it " does not disprove the essential unity of
the soul." If, on the other hand, he does not accept the whole
bag of tricks of the old '
rational psychology,' but holds that
the soul has 'parts' (pp. 238-9), and is extended, and can be
printed on (p. 222), and can change (p. 218), the questions of
how the soul generates a plurality of selves, simultaneous and
successive, supports them, is affected by them, and preserves
its own unity in so doing, demand formal consideration. Had
Mr. Pearson fully realized this, he would not, I am sure, have
treated the empirical material about multiple personality merely
negatively as an objection to a preconceived theory ; he would
'62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-junk, 1917.
have seen that it was relevant to the essential meaning to be
assigned to the notion of soul. And he would then, I venture
to think, have appreciated better the meaning and force of James's
psychological description, which at present he misapprehends
(ch. svi.). James showed that the term '
self,' as ordinarily
used, was ambiguous and covered both the '
I '
and the '
Me.'
Of these the '
I '
is never an object of knowledge, and hence,
if a '
permanent substratum ' is wanted and is to be called a
'
soul,' the '
I '
may be identified with that. It may also be
identified with the '
transcendental '
function, which is the Kantian
'
Ego.' But it is not knowable, and cannot be shown to be
individual. All the differences that distinguish one person from
another fall within the '
Me,' and so the '
I '
may just as well
(or better) be an Absolute or Universal Soul of which we are
all the multiple personalities. These are not consequences Mr.
Pearson would welcome (cf. ch. xx.), but they are what comes
of insisting on finding a '
substance '
behind the actual in order
to support the empirical self. James, on the other hand, was
quite right to eschew this futile procedure, and to conceive the
^ I '
as a continuous appropriation of a mind's (or soul's or
self's) past by its present. It is regrettable, perhaps, that he
borrowed a term from the then dominant intellectualism and called
the '
I '
a '
thought,' and sometimes spoke as if the stream of
consciousness were really made up of a succession of such
^
thoughts,' like Mill's serial self ; but there can be no real doubt
that the keynote of his view is continuity, the continuity of the
I '
with the '
Me '
and of the '
Me '
of one moment with that
of the next. So these expressions cannot be pressed ; no one
knew better than James how vain it is to multiply entities in
the unknowable. If the terms '
substance,' '
soul,' '
self,' '
Ego,*
'I,' 'spirit,' 'mind,' 'consciousness,' 'personality,' etc., are to
have any real meaning, they must be so used as to have value
in the description of observable facts of our experience ; but
at present there seem to be far more of them than philosophers
can advantageously employ, while they waste so much time
on disputing about them that they let the facts go by unobserved,
and the psychical researches which alone could throw light on
these old questions are not undertaken for lack of researchers.
Finally attention may be called to a good apergu of Mr. Pearson's
on p. 275. He rightly points out that monistic philosophers err in
trying to construe the development of the world as a process
May -June, 1917. Revieivs. 63
of the reabsorption of the Many into the One, and that it looks
rather like " an orderly and elaborate process of disintegration.''
This is obviously true, but like so many good things, the suggestion
has been anticipated. A curious pessiini.st, who wrote under
the name of Mainlander, explained the unity of the universe
as being a unity of origin, due to the common descent of all
things from an Absolute which was no longer in being because
it had committed suicide, and so had imparted to them a common
impetus to dissociation and extinction. The divergence in the
value-judgment thus passed on the world-process may not convince
Mr. Pearson that he was hasty in assuming that '
evolution
'
meant '
progress,' but it should at least convince him that it is
not enough merely to be assured that the soul is going on, but
necessary to inquire also what it is going on to. And for all
he has shown to the contrary Mr. Pearson's atomic souls may
as greatly excel ours in the quality, as they do in the duration,
of their terrestrial existence. F. C. S. Schiller.
NOTES ON CUEP.ENT PEPtlODICALS.
Archives de Psychologie, No. 62 (Dec. 1916). This Number has
nothing that refers immediately to psychical I'esearch, but it contains
an interesting theoretic article on the unconscious by Prof. C. G.
Jung, the Ziirich psycho-analyst. He endeavours ingeniously to
solve the problem of our psychic nature by a number of dis-
tinctions, between the personal and the '
impersonal ' unconscious,
i.e. that which our personality has '
repressed ' or not yet exhibited
and that which is general and common to all minds, and between
the personality, the persona, the 'collective' soul and the indi-
vidual ; but it does not appear that his distinctions are either
obvious or demanded by the empirical facts or that they lead to
anything, partly because they get entangled in the old logical
puzzle of the particular and the universal, more perhaps because
the line drawn between the 'personal' and the 'collective' is
essentially artificial and arbitrary. For, after all, the given fact is
the totality of psychic processes ; of these some can be selected
and identified with similar and analogous processes observable in
other minds, while others resist such assimilation. But this fact
hardly entitles us to construct a '
collective soul ' out of the former,
and to regard our figment as a substantive entity ; for it is only
by ignoring the individual differences between the processes in
6'4i Journal of Society for Psychical Research. May-June, 1917.
different minds that we can call tliem 'the same.' Upon stricter
scrutiny it will always be found that no two minds, and no two
processes, are ever quite the same, and that the unique individuality
of each soul colours all its contents, and renders it strictly incom-
parable with any other. Hence the '
collective soul ' is a fiction,
which becomes dangerously false, if it leads us to imagine that our
actual personality can actually be constructed by superinducing an
element of particularity upon a general matrix.
Prof R. Weber relates some experiments he had made on himself
to test his ability to estimate the lapse of time on waking from
sleep : it does not seem that he was very successful, or that he
improved with practice. It appears from the book-reviews that
the war has not extinguished the debate about the feats of the
'
thinking ' animals in Germany. One observer concludes that the
dog 'Rolf interprets signals unconsciously given him, a second
reports that the arithmetical capacity of the blind horse Berto is
indisputably genuine, while a third takes refuge in the telepathic
explanation. F. C. S. S.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Dr. W. J. Crawfoed's Th£ Reality of Psychic Phenomena.
To the Editor or the Journal of the S.F.R.
March 31, 1917.
Madam,—It was with considerable surprise that I read, in the
S.P.R. Journal for Feb.-March, the review by " E. M. S." of Dr.
W. J. Crawford's book. Reality of Psychic Phenomena.
It would appear as if E. M. S. cannot have read the " Pre-
liminary remarks " in the book under review, in which Dr. Craw-
ford deals very fully with the possibility of the phenomena being
produced by any mechanical means ; but apart from that, it seems
incredible that Dr. Crawford should be so simple, so purblind an
observer that in the course of two years of minute experimenting,
he should not have become aware that the phenomena were being
produced in the crude manner suggested by B. M. S. E. M. S.
would further have us believe that this utter want of observation
was shared by other observers who attended the seances, including
Sir Wm. Barrett, who was present on two occasions.
Has not B. M. S. made up his mind on a priori grounds that
such phenomena cannot occur, and would it not have more truly
May-June, 1917. Correspondence. 65
represented his real belief, if he had impugned Dr. Crawford's
good faith, and frankly declared that in his opinion the record of
the alleged phenomena was a gigantic hoax ?
This class of criticism is not encouraging and smacks of the
criticism levelled some forty years ago against Sir Wm. Crookes.
C. E. Baddeley (Colonel).
To the Editor or the Journal of the S.P.R.
Maij 3, 1917.
Dear Madam,—I have heard the review by " E. M. S." of Dr.
Crawford's book. The Reality of Psrjchic Phenomena, confidently
cited as establishing that the levitations described in the book
were performed by the medium's foot, and I think it might be
represented to the reviewer that this possibility, somewhat remote
in every instance, might have been suggested with more qualifica-
tion. The very remarkable levitation described on pp. 24-5 of
the book could not have been so produced, if Dr. Crawford is
at all to be trusted as to observed facts, unless the medium's foot
was more than a yard from her knee, and her knee bent at a
reflex angle ; and many of the other phenomena described woidd
tax the ordinary resources of the human leg to an almost equal
degree. That one or two of the phenomena could have been so
produced might have been quite fairly and justly pointed out ;
but the suggestion, to anyone who has not read the book, or has
read it carelessly, is that they could all have been produced in
this way.
I write this only in the interests of science—I do not know
Dr. Crawford, and have no interest in supporting his contentions.
K. F. R.
REPLY BY THE REVIEWER.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam,—I am sorry that my review of Dr. Crawford's
Reality of Psychic Phenomena has produced on Colonel Baddeley,
or on any other reader, the impression that I in the slightest
degree impugn Dr. Crawford's good faith. I certainly do not ;
nor do I underrate the importance of the case, which on the face
of it appears to be one of the most remarkable of its kind that
has recently come under observation.
I was greatly disappointed with the book, as I had expected
that the weighing and measuring experiments would have been
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Remarch. Mat-.Tunf, iait.
directed first to proving that the phenomena were not produced
by normal mechanical means. For this essential preliminary;
however, Dr. Crawford seems to have trusted mainly to his cer-
tainty that if there had been a trick he must have observed it ;
and his apparatus was introduced only mth a view to interpreting
the phenomena on the assumption that they were genuine. I
quite admit that, from the description, it seems unlikely that if
there was trickery he would not have perceived it. But one can
only describe what one observes ; and much experience (in days
now long ago) in investigation of the physical phenomena of
spiritualism, and further the experiments of Dr. Hodgson and
Mr. S. J. Davey (see Proceedings, Vol. IV. p. 381 and Vol. VIII.
p. 258), have convinced me that one's observation pitted against
trickery is very untrustworthy. In cases, therefore, where trickery
is the explanation that has to be excluded,^ unaided observation
should be relied on as little as possible. In the Belfast case
measurements are permitted—a circumstance, as far as it goes, in
favour of the genuineness of the phenomena—and my chief object
in saying what I did was to indicate ways in which I hoped
measurements might be applied to supplement observation in
judging of that genuineness. I much hope that Dr. Crawford
will extend his experiments in this direction.
I am glad that Dr. Crawford has invited other investigators to
confirm his observations. I understand from Sir William Barrett
that he was much impressed by the first sitting at which he was
present (at the second, nothing of much importance happened
owing, it was thought, to the health of the medium). As one
sitting is, of course, not enough, he is hoping to go again. I am
glad too to hear that Sir Oliver Lodge may be able to go to
Belfast.
The above was written before I had the opportunity of seeing
K. F. R.'s letter, but it perhaps sufficiently meets his criticism of
my review. It is difficult, of course, to write so as to ensure
being understood by the careless readers of whom he speaks, and
to any careful reader it must, I think, have been obvious that I
did not regard it as established that there was any trickery in the
manifestations. What I complain of is that mechanical means have
1 It is hardly necessary to say that in investigations of this kind tlic excellence
of the character of the medium and her pecuniary disinterestedness do
not preclude the necessitj' of conditions excluding the possibility of trickery.
Pr. Crawford gives us to understand that the medium realises this.
May-June, 1917. Correspondence. 67
not been employed in a manner to establish that there was not
trickery. Until this is done to a greater extent than it has yet
been in investigations of the physical phenomena of spiritualism, the
genuineness of such phenomena is likely in my opinion to remain
at best dubious. It is the business of conjurers and tricksters to
persuade us that we see (or hear or feel) something different from
what actually happens. When they have succeeded, our description
of what has occurred would of course be erroneous. The only way
of completely overcoming this difficulty is to obtain evidence other
than that of observation at the moment.
B. M. S.
On Evidence of Survival.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
April 26, 1917.
Dear Madam,—I am much interested in the question of Cross-
correspondences, and particularly impressed by the latest Willett
scripts.
At the same time I am not yet satisfied that telepathy in the
form of control from the living has been ruled out.
I admit that so far experiments with the living have not yielded
any results at all comparable to the elaborate and evidently
purposeful dove-tailing of the scripts. Perhaps to expect that
they should do so is putting too great a strain on the powers,
of the " Sub-conscious "'
as we know them.
But have these experiments been made under the same conditions
and with the same phsycic factors as are involved in the Piper-
Holland-Willett and Verrall scripts ? The most important psychic
factors in all these cases being the connnon interest and the common
desire—desire that a test-case may be provided, that a clue may
be found, that survival may be proved.
Now, psychologically, desire, conscious or " sub-conscious,'' if it
be strong enough, is the most purposeful and designing thing in
the universe. Dream-analysis gives us some idea of the extia-
ordinary power the ^mjclie has of elaborating and designing its
material according to its desire. It even -provides the material.
As the conditions of the dream-life are different, so the results
are diflterent. But though we may get nothing like the cross-
correspondences, we do get elaboration, dramatisation, cunning and
purposeful design. If, then, the conditions for testing telepathy
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Researclt. biax-June, 1917.
and thought-transference from the living were such that some
dominant interest and desire were concerned it is just possible
that we might get results showing that even cross-correspondences
in the form of jig-saw puzzles, such as the " Bar of Dionysius,"
are not impossible between living minds.
I don't want to show it. I want to show survival. But I
cannot think it is even indicated, until every other hypothesis is
ruled out.
May Sinclair.
No. CCCXXXVIII.—Vol. XVIII. July, 1917.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, 69
Meeting of the Council, 70
General Meeting, 70
The "St. Paul" Cross-Correspondences Reviewed, 71
Review: Mr. J. Arthur Hill's "Psychical Investigations," ----- 83
Correspondence, 85
Supplementary Library Catalogue, 88
The Rooms of the Society at 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1, will
he closed during August and September, re-opening on Monday,
October 1st.
The Editor, Mrs. Salter, will be in London during August and will
see visitors, by appointment, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1,
on any week day except Saturday, between the hours of 10 a.m. and
5 p.m.
The next number of the '
Journal ' will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Boustead, Mrs., Westfield, Wimbledon Common, London, S.W. 19.
Brown, B. H. Inness, 24 Broad Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
DaviSj Mrs. Kennard, The School House, Woodbridge, Suffolk.
Ekin, James, 88 Queen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Moore, W. F., 1 Redcliffe Street, London, S.W. 10.
Pynsent, R. B., at Oaklands, Hailsham, Sussex.
Scott, Mrs. W. E., 95 Ashley Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Aglen, F. A., Inspectorate General of Customs, Peking, China.
BiNNEY, Lady Marjery, Pampisford Hall, Nr. Cambridge.
Burton, Mrs., Grand Continental Hotel, Cairo, Egypt.
Childe-Pemberton, Mrss A. H., 12 Portman Street, London, W. 1.
Collins, Miss Mary, 29 Glenluce Road, Blackheath, London,
S.E. 3.
70 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1917.
Courage, Mrs., The Mount, Ifield, Crawley, Sussex.
Dallby, Mrs., 37 Sandringham Court, Maida Vale, London, W. 9.
Harper, Miss E. K., The Apple Gate, Coombe Hill Farm, Nr.
Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
Howell, Mrs. Philip, 5 Carlyle Square, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
James, Henry, The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, New
York City, U.S.A.
Kittermaster, Rev. Digby B., Dame Armstrong House, Harrow-
on-the-Hill.
Pagan, Mrs. G. L., 5 Belgrave Place, Edinburgh.
Powell, Ellis T., D.Sc, Rosedene, Brondesbury Park, London,
N.W. 6.
Smith, Mrs. William, c/o The Royal Bank of Australia, 18
Bishopsgate, London, E.C. 2.
Stephens, W. F., Seychelles Colony.
SwAlNE, Mrs. R. C, Letchworth Lane, Letchworth, Herts.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 148th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, June 28th, 1917, at
3.15 p.m.: Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, Rev.
M. A. Bayfield, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick; also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Seven new Members and sixteen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for April and May, 1917, were
presented and taken as read.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 148th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Steinway Hall, London, W., on Thursday, June 28th, 1917,
at 4.30 p.m.. The President, Dr. L. P. Jacks, in the chair.
The President delivered an Address on " The Theory of
Survival read in the Light of its Context," which will be
published in the next part of the Proceedings.
July, 1917. Thp. "St. Paul" Cross-Gorref^pondences Reviewed. 71
THE " ST. PAUL " CROSS-CORRESPONDENCES
REVIEWED.
By Walter F. Prince, Ph.D.
The first instance in a " Series of Concordant Automatisms,"
edited eight years ago by Mr. J. G. Piddington,^ is left by him one
of second-rate importance. Further study seems to raise it to the
first grade of value. This is said in no captious spirit. The whole
material to be analyzed was voluminous, and even indefatigable
labour might be excused for overlookuig some evidential points.
It is presumed that every investigator in this field is gratified if
at any time new light is thrown upon an incident earlier canvassed
by himself.
But the discovery of explanatory and unifying features lying
close below the surface, though they remained hidden for years,
leads to the query whether spirits, if they are really endeavouring
to communicate under difficulties which make them liable to the
imputation of inanity, are not on their side oft-times wondering at
what appears to them our stupidity.^
The automatists figurmg in the case under review were Mrs.
Piper, who wrote in Sir Oliver Lodge's house at Edgbaston, Eng-
land ; Mrs. Holland, who was throughout in India ; and Miss
Verral], who was in some other place in England. Mrs. Holland
did not know that experiments were being initiated with Mrs.
Piper. Miss and Mrs. Verrall knew that bare fact, but were not
made acquainted with the Piper and Holland scripts embodying
(with Miss Verrall's) the " St. Paul " cross-correspondences, at
least until that series was completed. Here follows Mr. Pidding-
ton's entire report on this group of scripts :
Extract from record of sitting loith Mrs. Piper held on Nov. 15, 1906.
(Present: 0. J. L. and Lady Lodge.)
(Hodgson communicating.) I am Hodgson.
0. J. L. Glad to see you at last.
Hello Lodge. I am not dead as some might suppose. I am
very much alive.
^Proceedings of the [English] Society for Psychical Research, Vol. XXII.,
containing Part LVII., 1908.
2 And there \s prima facie evidence of this in the communications. For example,
see page 64 of the same Report. " I can't register unless you understand well "
(Rector). Also page 179, " You are a stupid lot if you can't understand when I
am shouting at the top of my voice to make you understand " (Hodgson).
e2
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1917.
0. J. L. Good, I expect so.
Speak to me.
0. J. L. Are you interested in the cross-correspondences? Could you
send something to other communicators 1
I am very and think it the very best thing.
0. J. L. Could you send one now to one of the mediums 1
I will go to Mrs. Holland. [Dr. Hodgson never knew anything
about Mrs. Holland ; but J. G. P. in the spring on 1906
had mentioned her name to Hodgson more than once in the
sittings in Boston.]
0. J. L. What will you send?
St. Paul.
0. J. L. That is a good idea.
'
St. Paul. I will give it to her at once.
(After an interval.)
0. J. L. Do you remember what you were going to say to Mrs. Holland ?
St. Paul.
0. J. L. Yes, quite right.
I will go at once.
"St. Paul" did not appear in Mrs. Holland's script. There are,
however, in the script of Miss Verrall two passages worth considering
in this connection. [Note. —I consider myself justified in looking for a
correspondence in the script of an automatist other than the one to
whom the message was directed, because the trance-personalities were
more than once and in the most formal and definite terms asked to try
to give these corresponding messages to all or any of the automatists-
concerned in these experiments, even though only one was specifically
named when the experiment was arranged. To a critical mind the
reflection will at once occur that the chances of success were hereby
increased. I agree ; but will content myself with saying that if any
serious critic will carefully study all the evidence presented in this
report I shall not be afraid of his seeking to set down the successful
cases of correspondence to chance in spite of the way in which the
chances of success to the extent here stated were widened.]
The two passages in question occur in Miss Verrall's script of Jan. 12
and Feb. 26, 1907. The script of Jan. 12 opens with a sentence in
Latin, and then totally unconnected with it follow these words :
the name is not right robbing Peter to pay —Paul ? sanctus
nomine quod efficit nil continens petatur subveniet.
July, 1917. The "St. Paul" Cvosf>-Gorrespondences Reviewed. 78
The script of Feb. 26 reads as follows :
A tangle of flowers with green grass between wall flowers pansies
why such hurry did you know that the second way was
shorter you have not understood about Paul ask Lodge,
quibus eruditis advocatis rem explicabis non nisi ad
normam refers hoc satis alia vana
A tower of ancient masonry with battlements (a scrawl, perhaps
representing a signature " A.T.") astolat.
The last sentence and the opening phrases down to "shorter " seem
to me clearly not to belong to the middle passages, the subject of which
is dismissed with the words " this is enough ; more is useless."
The Latin words in the script of Jan. 12 I interpret thus : "Holy in
name {i.e. with the title of saint) what she (or, he) is doing is of no use
{i.e. by itself). Let the point (continens) be looked for ; it will help."
The Latin words of Feb. 26 I translate :
" By calling to your aid
what learned men will you explain the matter? [Note.—Or, if
"quibus" is treated as a relative instead of as an interrogative, the
words should mean: "when you have called these learned persons
to your aid."] (You will not explain it) unless you refer it to one
standard. This is enough ; more is useless."
The only reference to Sir Oliver Lodge in Miss Verrall's script during
the period under review is the one quoted above. The names Peter and
Paul do not occur elsewhere in Miss Verrall's script during the same
period. It is natural, therefore, to put together the two scripts con-
taining the name Paul.
If we take these two passages to refer to the experiment arranged on
Nov. 15 it will be seen that the name Paul is given ; and that "Lodge "
is correctly indicated as the person to explain about the name Paul.
Miss Verrall never did apply to Sir Oliver Lodge as directed ; and it
was not until September, 1907, that the interpretation given above
struck me.
I have said that " St. Paul" did not appear in Mrs. Holland's script,
but her script of Dec. 31, 1906, suggests an approach to the name of
St. Paul, and also suggests an explanation of the words in Miss Verrall's
script of Jan. 12, "the name is not right robbing Peter to pay—Paul."
I transcribe the first half only of this script of Dec. 31, 1906, the
second half having no connection with the first.
II Peter 1. 15 [" Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able
after my decease to have these things always in remem-
brance."]
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jolt, 1917.
" This witness is true "
—
It is now time that the shadow should be lifted from your spirit
—
"Let patience have her perfect work." "This is a faithful
saying."
This tvitness, etc., is not, I believe, a textual quotation, but is remin-
iscent of several passages from the writings of St. John.
This is a faithful saying occurs at least three times in St. Paul's
Epistles.
The only name actually written is Peter, and this Peter is clearly
Saint Peter. If we suppose that the scribe was aiming at getting " St.
Paul " expressed, it looks as if he felt his way towards the name or
notion of St. Paul by quoting first from St. Peter, next from St. John,
then from St. James, and finally from St. Paul. I do not mean that I
think the process was thus deliberately involved, but that the scribe
(whoever or whatever that may be) did the best that he could. A long
way round may perhaps be the only way there. I further suggest that
the scribe having got so far could not proceed to get the name "St.
Paul " written, and so had to content himself with quotation from his
writings.
Now, read in the light of this interpretation, the words in Miss
Verrall's script of Jan. 12, " the name is not right robbing Peter to pay
—Paul," are suggestive.
The words nisi ad unam iiormam refers in Miss Verrall's script of Feb.
26 may, perhaps, have been intended to mean that unless there was one
person in touch with all the automatists concerned in these experiments
the point would be missed in many instances ;
or, in other words, that
a central exchange was necessary. In this case I was, so to speak, at
the central office, but though I was receiving Miss Verrall's script, and
though Sir Oliver Lodge sent me a copy of his record of the sitting of
Nov. 15,1 was not receiving a copy of Mrs. Holland's script ; and until
I did receive a copy of it the significance of Miss Verrall's scripts of
Jan. 12 and Feb. 26 naturally escaped me. If, then, the words nisi ad
unam normam refers can bear such an interpretation as I have sought to
place on them they were neither otiose nor mere padding.
Most readers who have had the patience to follow me so far will, I
fear, at this point form the opinion that all this may be more or less
ingenious rubbish, but that it is certainly rubbish. Had the experi-
ments produced no coincidences less problematical than this one, I
should heartily agree ; but there have been correspondences of the most
definite character, and not only that, l;>ut in the production of them
there is evidence both of intelligent direction and of ingenuity. I care
Jur.Y, 1917. The "St Paul" Cross-Gorres'pondences Reviexved. 75
not to whom that intelligence be attributed : but that intelligence, and
acute intelligence, lie behind the phenomena I stoutly maintain. And
if this be once admitted, no excuse need be offered for trying to place
upon them interpretations which otherwise would be over-subtle.
Rectifications.
Thus far the English report. We proceed to suggest some
rectifications of the commentary upon the passages of script.
1. The irrelevancy of the test II Peter 1. 15 is hardly abated
by the intimation that the scribe " felt his way " toward the name
" St. Paul." But suppose that in the course of getting the figures
through the subliminal mind and putting them on paper an error
in one figure was made, and what the passage really meant is
II Peter 3. 15. Then we have the lucidly relevant sentence naming
and characterizing St. Paul, " And account that the long-suffering
of our Lord is salvation ; even as our beloved brother Paul,
according to the wisdom given unto him, hath written unto
you." When we consider that there is but one chance in
twelve of striking the one verse in the Petrine epistles which
names Paul, by altering one figure in the citation as given,
that this one verse is in the midst of 166 Petrine verses, and
that it is likewise the only verse mentioning him out of 734
which make up the body of the non-Pauline epistles,'- it is
difficult to escape the conclusion that somebody was aiming at
this particular verse. Wlien we remember that the subjective
experiences of a writing psychic are often of an auditory
character,^ and then observe that " first " resembles " third
"
in sound more than any other ordinal, the conclusion becomes
irresistible- that II Peter 3. 15 was meant. Granting this,
good judgment was displayed in not selecting a verse from the
Acts of the Apostles, which is largely a history of Paul, and
names him upwards of 150 times ; nor even selecting it from
the epistles written by him and which contain his name
twenty-nine times ; but in choosing the one place where it
1 Reckoning the Epistle to the Hebrews as non-Pauline, as is almost certainly
the fact.
-There are manj' indications of this in Mr. Piddington's report (pp. 95, 150,
151, 279, 296, 304, 305, 392, etc.). Mrs. Piper, ceasing to write and about to
emerge from trance, but not yet fully emerged, would begin to talk, and often
made casual allusions to what she had heard.
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1917.
stands isolated amid the remaining New Testament literature of
rising 4500 verses.
2. Mr. Piddington thinks that " This witness is true " is not
a textual quotation, but " is reminiscent of several passages in
the writings of St. John." On the contrary, it is a literal
textual quotation, and from St. Paul, being found in Titus 1. 13.^
3. " It is now time that the shadow should be lifted from
your spirit " is reminiscent of the words of St. Paul in Komans
13. 11, " Now it is high time for you to wake out of your
sleep," and, I think, of no passage from any other New Testa-
ment writer.
4. As stated, " This is a faithful saying " occurs at least three
times in St. Paul's epistles. It occurs four times, namely in
I Timothy 1. 15 ; I Timothy 4. 9 ; II Timothy 2. 11 ; Titus 3.8.
Thus every passage names, quotes, or is reminiscent of a
sentence from, St. Paul, except " Let patience have her perfect
work," and that has a relevance presently to be explained.
5. I think that the translation given of the Latin sentence
of Jan. 12 misses the point contained which gives it special
cogency, and venture to substitute another:" "Let a saint be
sought contauaing in his name that which effects nothing ; he
will come to aid." This defines the name Paul, which contains
the root of the verb iravw, meaning to cease, to come to an
end, a procedure pretty sure to effect nothing. The relevance
of this also will be shown a little later.
The Sceipts in Cheonological Sequence.
It now appears that the logical order of the scripts is the
chronological order. Their bearings upon each other will be
more readily perceived when they are so arranged.
I. Mrs. Piper in Edgbaston, Eng., Nov. 15, 1906.
[Hodgson purports to communicate. Sir Oliver replies.]
(Are you interested in cross-correspondence ? Could you
send something to other communicators ?)
I am very, and think it the very best thing.
1 Mr. Piddington has drawn attention to this mistake himself ; see Proc. S.P.B.,
Vol. XXIV., p. U.—Ed.
-On the authority of the Rev. W. H. Mills, M.A., an English classical scholar
now residing in Ontario, Cal.
July, 1917. The "St. Paul" Gross-Correspondences Reviewed. 77
(Could you send one now to one of our mediums ?)
I will go to Mrs. Holland.
(Wliat will you send ?)
-
St. Paul.
(That is a good idea.)
St. Paul. I will give it to her at once.
[An interval.]
(Do you remember what you were going to say to Mrs.
Holland ?)
St. Paul.
(Yes, quite right.)
I will go at once.
n. Mrs. Holland, in India, Dec. 31, 1906.
II Peter 1. 15 [meaning II Peter 3. 15, " And account
that the long suffering of the Lord is salvation ;
even as our beloved brother Paul, according to the
wisdom given unto him hath written unto you "].
This witness is true [St. Paul. See Tittis 1. 13].
It is now time that the shadow should be lifted from your
spirit [Reminiscent of St. Paul, " It is now high time
for you to wake from your sleep." See Rom. 13. 11].
Let patience have her perfect work [See James 1. 4].
This is a faithful saying [St. Paul. See I Tim. 1. 15 ;
I Tim. 4:. 9: II Tim. 2. 11 ; Titus 3. 8].
III. Miss Verrall, in England, Jan. 12, 1907.
the name is not right robbing Peter to pay—Paul ? sanctus
nomine quod efficit nil continens petatur subveniet
[Let a saint be sought containing in his name that
which effects nothing ; he will come to aid].
IV. Miss Verrall, in England, Feb. 26, 1907.
you have not understood about Paul ask Lodge qui-
bus eruditis, advocatis rem explicabis non nisi imam
normam refers hoc satis alia vana [By calling to
your aid what learned men will you explain the
matter unless you carry it to one norm ? This is
sufficient, all else is useless].
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1917.
Interpretation.
When the materials are properly identified and placed in their
chronological sequence, they are largely self-explicatory.
Hodgson announces through Mrs. Piper's automatic writing
that he will go to Mrs. Holland in India and endea\our to make
the name "St. Paul " come out in her script.
Of course, not having looked farther than II Peter 1. 15,
Mr. Piddington had to say that " St. Paul did not appear in
Mrs. Holland's script." But, as already stated, we are forced
by all the canons of probability to conclude that II Peter 3. 15
was meant, and this does contain the name St. Paul, together
with the most pointed and comprehensive characterization of
him, probably, afforded by any verse of the Scriptures. No
more emphatic, unmistakeable cross-correspondence could be
desired or imagined. And Mrs. Holland was the recipient, precisely
in accordance with the intention announced in the Piper sitting.
Not only had it been intended to cite a passage peculiarly
mentioning St. Paul, but also three out of the four sen-
tences which follow suggest Paul and him alone. One is a
characteristic Pauline phrase, employed by him four times, but
by no other Biblical author ; a second is solely from St. Paul's
pen ; a third is reminiscent of just one passage in the New
Testament, and that by St. Paul. So instead of its being the
case that the scribe " felt his way toward the name or notion
of St. Paul by quoting first from St. Peter, next from St. John,
then from St. James and finally from St. Paul," the fact is
that only one of the five items, the passage from St. James,,
breaks away from the circle of Pauline reference.
And why this one departure ? There seem to have been two
purposes in Mrs. Holland's script, (1) to thoroughly adumbrate
the name " St. Paul," (2) to intimate that there was a con-
cealed significance in the name yet to be revealed by a process
which might require patience, but for which the data is now
sufiicient. On the basis of a great many remarks by purported
communicators in the course of the entire series of experi-
ments,^ and of similar remarks reported elsewhere, it was rather
'
If there are indeed "communicators," it appears that, whatever may be the
reasons wrapped up in the process of "communication" which is yet so obscure,
the "communicators" onlj' occasionally or partly see the actual script, and are
sure that their intentions are rightly recorded, unless a sitter reads the message
July, 1917. The "St. Paul" Cross-Correspondences Revieived. 79
to be expected that Hodgson should not be aware that an
error had been made in setting down the citation which he
gave. Assuming that II Peter 3. 15 came through correctly, he
emphasizes it with the sentence, from Paul but apposite no
matter what its source, " This witness is true." ^ the cross-
correspondence was supposed to be now successfully accom-
plished and Mrs. Holland's script was regularly being sent to
Miss Johnson in England, it was pertinent to say, presumably
to the person who should do the comparing of scripts (for
there is no reason to suppose that " you " refers to Mrs.
Holland), " It is now time that the shadow should be lifted
from your spirit," paraphrasing another sentence of St. Paul, the
more to drive home what matter is to be illuminated. But
since we " on this side," in spite of our smugness in dealing
with " spirits," do miss points just below the surface, and
arrive at conclusions without sufficient consideration (a tendency
to be illustrated in this very instance), the injunction of St.
James appropriately follows, " Let patience have her perfect
work." The warning is clinched, and the attention brought
back to Paul by the final sentence from that apostle, " This
is a faithful saying." . .
Mrs. Holland's script was sent to Miss Johnson in England,
who presumably received the original or a copy of Mrs. Piper's
also.^ She did not discover the error in the Petrine citation.
And then in a third script not by Mrs. Holland, not by Mrs.
Piper, but by another party who was ignorant of the former
scripts. Miss Verrall, there appeared recognition that an error
had been made, a clear apprehension of the nature of the
error and the resultant confusion, and knowledge that when
the right and specified name should be found in siti all
aloud. Witness a few out of many illustrations in the present report. " I shall
be glad to know if the word Mourn or Mown came out " (Prudens), p. 39.
'
' When
she receives it let me know kindly" (Myers), p. .55. "Did she [Mrs. Verrall]
receive the word Evangelical?" (Myers), p. 59. "He [Myers] will be very glad
to understand that the triangle came through, as he did see the circle but could
not be absolutely sure of the whole triangle" (Rector), p. 72. "Got arrow
yet?" (Hodg.son), p. 80.
1 Note that the passage from Peter is emphatically one which bears witness as to
the endowments and authority of Paul.
-See page 22 of the Report. Mr. Piddington did not see the Holland script
until later.
80 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1917.
confusion would disappear. " The name is not right robbing
Peter to pay—Paul." This implies a number of things : that
a mistake has been made or is impending regarding a name,
that the choice lies between the names Peter and Paul, that
the misapprehension relates to ths Biblical quotation in con-
nection with which only has the name of St. Peter come out
in a script. The dash before " Paul " implies that the proverb
is not to be taken in merely its general sense, but that the
name Paul has special significance. Since the misapprehension
jelates to a passage which as cited calls to attention only the
name Peter, what can that significance possibly be than that
the name Paul is the name to be sought for ? And the right
passage will be found to take from Peter in order to give
credit to Paul. " Let a saint be sought containing in his name
that tvhich effects nothing. He ivill come to aid." With the
attention already directed to the name " Paul," the hint is
given to examine that name and be convinced that it is the
one meant by finding contained in it a root with a peculiar
meaning. Moreover, that very meaning will hint at the per-
severance competent to discover the passage which will aid to
clear up the whole matter.
The hints not being effectual. Miss Verrall's script later returned
to the task. " You have not understood about Paul." This re-
petition of the name " Paul " is not only another cross-corre-
spondence in itself, but is also an intimation that the data given
elsewhere should be re-examined. Ash Lodge." Here is mention
of the very man in whose presence the chosen word was started
on its way, and the indication of a hope that this man, if con-
sulted, may be able to put two and two together. " By calling
to your aid what learned men ivill you explain the ^natter
unless you carry it to one norm ? This is sufficient. All else
is useless." And very true it was that all efforts, however
learned, to puzzle out the enigmatic sentences now brought
together from far-separated lands, and to make them mean
something in relation to each other, would be useless, unless
they were all brought to the one norm of the third chapter of
second Peter, fifteenth verse, which would be sufficient to ex-
plain and knit them together.
Therefore the norm was not Mr. Piddington,^ but the intended
^ See above, p. 74.
I
-JuLT, 1917. The "St. Paul" Cross-Correspondences Revieived. 81
scriptural passage, which, was the true witness to the fulfilment of
Hodgson's agreement, and which after patience in research should
have her perfect work would lift the shadow of doubt regarding
the matter from the spirit of the investigator. The norm was a
passage taken from Peter, but giving credit to Paul, stamped by
a name containing a certain significant root ; a name which the
moment it was found in this place would link together all the
sentence in the various scripts, in their chronological and con-
secutive order.
NOTE ON DR. PEINCE'S REVIEW OF THE " ST. PAUL "
CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE.
Dr. Prince's case rests upon a textual emendation, or, I should
rather say, a textual alteration. He changes Mrs. Holland's
"II Peter 1. 15" into "II Peter 3. 15"; and his justification
for making this change is that, if II Peter 3. 15 be substituted
for what the automatist really wrote, a more effective cross-
correspondence with Mrs. Piper's and Miss Verrall's scripts
will result.
Dr. Prince tells us that " Ave are forced by all the canons of
probability to conclude that II Peter 3. 15 was meant." I
wish he had told us what all these canons are ; for until they
are revealed, and unless, when they are revealed, they prove
to be very big gmis, I for my part shall prefer to abide
by what the automatist wrote.
Textual emendation is great fun, but it isn't always "cricket."
In the case of classical authors, where the text as originally written
is not available, but only a text which has run the gauntlet of
many copyings, it is often desirable. But in the case of scripts
we possess the original text ; and emendation, except as regards
mere slips of the pen, ought to be eschewed—even at the cost of
thereby failing to improve a cross-correspondence !
In the case of ordinary literature, ancient or modern, the
author may be presumed, with some rare exceptions, to be
expressing ideas in a consecutive, rational and logical form ;
and so, if a passage occurs which makes, or appears to make,
nonsense as it stands, it is legitimate to make verbal changes
within certain limits with a view to improving the sense. But
with scripts this is not the case. They are for the most part
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Jolt, 1917.
sketchy, inconsequent and. in the strict sense of the word,
incoherent. To attempt, then, to emend a script when its
general tenour is not discernible, is a risky proceeding.
I do not say that emendation of a script is never allowable.
In certain circumstances I should not hesitate to adopt an
emendation. Take, for instance, these words in Mrs. Verrall's
script of March 25, 1907 :
"remember the Virgilian line indignantis sub umbras."
Here obviously "indignantis" is a mere slip for "indignata."
Or, again, in Miss Verrall's script of Aug. 27, 1915, there occur
the words: "calm and deep east." As a few weeks earlier in
one of her scripts "calm and deep peace" had been correctly
quoted from In Memoriam xi., it is safe to conclude that
"east" is merely a slip for "peace." At the same time an
obvious emendation is not necessarily a sound one. Thus,
Mrs. Verrall's script of March 25, 1907, from which I have
already quoted, has the words :
" clavem gerens trans Pontem (drawing of a bridge)
trans Hellespontem."
To alter "Hellespontem" into " Hellespontum " would be easy,
but not necessarily right ; for though " Hellespontem " does not
exist, and though it may be merely a slip, it is quite as likely to
be an intentional play on the preceding "Pontem."
Furthermore, it is one thing to emend a word or phrase in
a script when the immediate context of it can be shown to
support the emendation ; and quite another thing to emend a
word or phrase in a script of A's on the strength of something
to be found in a script of B's. To do the latter begs, or
comes perilously near to begging, the whole question at issue :
namely, whether there is or is not a supernormal connexion
between the scripts of various automatists.
If Mrs. Holland after writing "II Peter 1. 15" had then
added some words from II Peter 3. 15, Dr. Prince's contention
that 1. 15 was an error for 3. 15 would, I think, have been
both legitimate and likely ; but no such words were added, and
there is nothing in the context to show that any dissatisfaction
was felt with the reference as given, and nothing to suggest
that it was not the reference intended.
I do not, and, as reference to Proc. Vol. XXII., p. 35, wiU
i
July, 1917. Note on " St. Paul " Cross-Correspondence. 83
show. I never did attach much importance to the " St. Paul
"
cross-correspondence. But whatever its value may be, I did
not try to enhance it by tampering with the text of one of
the scripts which contribute to the cross-correspondence. If we
once begin to alter our facts to suit our theories, our critics
will have a glorious time of it, —unless, indeed, they decide to
leave us alone as being beneath criticism.
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
REVIEW.
Psychical Investigations. By J. Arthur Hill. 8vo, 288 pp. (Cassell.
6s.)
This book will add to the reputation which Mr. Hill's previous works
liave earned for him as a careful and dispassionate investigator.
There are three chapters dealing respectively with Immortality, Pre-
existence and the Nature of the After-Life, and Psychical Research
and Religion, but the bulk of the book is properly concerned with
actual investigation, and gives accounts of sittings held with mediums
by the author and discussions of the results obtained. Mr. Hill is
convinced of the reality of communications from the dead, but he
presents each incident with fairness, and is always at pains not to
strain the evidence in doubtful cases.
An evidentially strong case is that of Elias Sidney (pp. 17 ff.)
The medium was A. Wilkinson, who at a sitting in January, 1915,
said :
" There is a man by that bookcase, a very old man, big, full-
featured. Been gone some time; old-fashioned shirt, white, very
clean. Elias Sidney. Politics interested him; rather a strong poli-
tician—Radical or strong Liberal. Been dead some time. Somebody
brought him, somebody on the other side, who has manifested here
before." More followed, identifying Sidney and connecting him with
a Mr. Leather whom Mr. Hill had known. Sidney had died six years
before, and seven weeks before his friend Leather. The point is that
Mr. Hill had never heard of Sidney, nor had several of Leather's friends,
of whom inquiries were made. At last he found one who had known
Sidney well, and stated that at his death he " had long been retired
from public life, being a very old man. He was one of a coterie of
friends, all vigorous Liberals. I was one. Mr. Leather ims another."
Further inquiries showed that the description of Sidney's personality
was accurate, and it was disco^'ered that the reason why several of
Leather's friends knew nothing of Sidney was that the two met only
84 Joxirnal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1917.
at their club. Ten years' acquaintance with the medium has convinced
Mr. Hill of his honesty, and it appears to be to the last degree unlikely
that Wilkinson could have obtained his knowledge of Sidney—who, as
has been said, had died, after long retirement, six years previously
—
by any normal means. The full account of the case as given by
Mr. Hill is well worth study, for its evidential force is certainly beyond
the ordinary.
Other exceptionally good cases are those of Lewis (pp. 82 ft'.), Ruth
Robertshaw (pp. 172 ft".), and Sir Oliver Lodge, a "psychometric"'
case (pp. 182 ff.), and the book contains many others which are a
useful addition to the mass of evidence for survival already in our
possession, the interest of which consists chiefly in its cumulative value.
It has become not unusual to insert in works like the present
chapters on theology and religion, and attempts are made to construct-
at least the basis of a religion out of the results of psychical research.
The value of such essays, however much thought and study they may
represent, as in Mr. Hill's case, seems to me doubtful. Theology and
religion are subjects too great to admit of effective treatment in the
limits of a chapter or two, and the knowledge which has been acquired
through psychical investigations seems to me wholly inadequate to-
support any such superstructure. All it can do, what it has already
done, is eff"ectually to destroy the non-religion of materialistic philo-
sophy. I do not find in it any constructive power. Moreover, the
value of these discussions is in any case impaired by the fact that they
proceed on a tacit assumption that the Christian view of our Lord's
personality is untenable. But surely a disproof of the soundness of
that view is a necessary antetedent to the construction of any new
religion. He holds the field, and, so far as I am aware, we still await
a successful evasion of the ancient dilemma si non Deus, non bonus.
Lombroso's solution of the difiiculty, that He was a " megalomaniac,"
will not bear even superficial examination.
On one subsidiary point in this connexion I must permit myself to
express unqualified dissent from Mr. Hill. He writes on p. 228 :
" It
['individual survival of bodily death'] is rarely preached about or
written about. Clei-gymen shy at discussing it ;
they have no vital
belief in it themselves." The author's whole book bears the stamp of
sincerity, and no doubt he believes these astounding statements to be
true, but how he could have come to that belief passes imagination.
Individual survival is of the very essence of the Gospel, and every
sermon preached, every appeal made to a congregation, proceeds on the
assumption that preacher and hearers are agreed on the point, even if
July, 1917. Review. 85
it is not specially emphasised, as of course it frequently is. Except
with the belief in personal survival, the Christian religion has no
meaning to any man.
Mr. Hill makes another strange statement when he writes on p. 3 in
the chapter on Immortality, " There will be no identity with our
present selves. 'Persons' are not immortal; for their personality
changes." He is arguing from the fact that a man is not "the same"
as he was when a baby. It is not worth while to refute the fallacy of
this reasoning, which rests on nothing more nor less than the ambiguity
of the word "same."
On the rationale of psychometry Mr. Hill comes to what seems
to me a more sound conclusion. A lady, a friend of his, died
on November 3, 1915. On November 8 some objects which had
belonged to her were given to a medium without result; she "was
said to be still mostly sleeping the recuperative sleep which follows
death." Next day there was "a gleam of evidentiality in a short
message," though this was accompanied by "several quite incorrect
statements." On the 11th the objects were given to a medium in
London, who did not know Mr. Hill, by a lady who did not know the
deceased ; but this medium, who had been told nothing of the date of
the death, said she was "afraid it was too soon," and no results were
obtained. After two other unsuccessful attempts on November 25 and
March 2, 1916, Mr. Hill obtained on April 19, with the medium
Wilkinson, " the first coherent and considerable evidence of my friend's
identity and initiative." He adds: "Now if psychometry were only a
reading of indications somehow imprinted on an object, would not the
sensitives have been able to read them at first, and indeed best then,
while they were fresh ? The failure at first, and the gradual improve-
ment later, is certainly an indication—it would be too much to call it
a proof—that communications depend on the reality and activity of the
surviving mind with which the rapport-object links us up, and not
primarily on the object itself." M. A. Bayfield.
COEKESPONDENCE.
On Evidence of Survival.
I.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.E.
June 13, 1917.
Dear Madam,—The point raised by Miss May Sinclair, that on the
analogy of the facts established by Dr. Freud and his school we must
lay stress upon the potential operation of a desire for evidence as an
S6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1917.
inductive factor —a stimulus, inducing in the unconscious mind a
tendency to construct and elaborate fictitious evidence—is, I am con-
vinced, of great ps}'chological importance. I should like to suggest,
however, that a further consideration is involved.
Desire is in itself interpretative ; the question is whether its inter-
pretations are in any given case true, or false, or of the symbolical
quality that lies between absolute truth and absolute falsehood. Ruling
out these absolutes, neither of which are experientially known, we
come to a question of the relative value of different sj^mbolisms. The
symbolism induced by the creative desire of a great poet is relatively
true : the symbolism induced by the obscure desire that prompts the
average dream is relatively false. What of the symbolism by which we
" get through " the apparent evidence of survival?
My suggestion is that, so far from trying to eliminate the factor of
desire, we should recognise that desire is a necessary factor in all
processes of mind, and try to regard it qualitatively. The desire for
truth, for instance, can be distinguished from the desire for a lax
spiritual comfort. The former desire will admit the difficulties and
muddles that confront the serious psychical investigator, while the
latter desire will snatch at a merely subjective satisfaction, taking
everything for granted and stumbling into all the pitfalls.
We have evidence enough that the best apparent proofs of survival
have been duly filtered through minds whose chief concern is for truth ;
the crucial question remains, whether these proofs indicate survival in
the sense ordinarily understood, or whether they represent the nearest
approximate symbol that we can at present realise of a truth of
continuity which is beyond our present comprehension. A crucial
dilemma, such as this, usually turns out to contain a common, recon-
ciling term ; and I suggest that in this case the reconciling term is,
simply, continuity. That is a truth of which the superconsciousness
of mankind has always been aware ;
psychical science is now, at last,
beginning to investigate, gropingly, its factual basis. In this investi-
gation we cannot leave out desire without leaving out mind ; the only
question is whether we are raising desire to its highest possible inter-
pretative level. If so, even our most glaring mistakes will illuminate
the path of our successors. K. F. R.
II.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Dear Madam, —Your correspondent Miss May Sinclair raises an
interesting question which has been already considered in a general
way, namely, whether it is possible for the subconscious to be
JULT, 1917. Correspondence. 87
actuated by desire independently and without the knowledge (so
to say) of the normal consciousness.
It would seem that were it possible it could never be proved.
The agent would have to be certain that no thought had emanated
from him or her having any connection however remote with the
content of the script produced by the percipient.
The Journal some years ago reported an interesting case of the
postman " E " whose crystal vision of a drawing-room, in which
there was a cut-glass chandelier, was traced under hypnosis to a glass
knob he had seen in a church the same day : a slender enough connection.
Even had a number of automatists produced scripts containing,
let us say, allusions to various objects in this drawing-room
—
e.g.
a rare carpet, a particular portrait, some unique ornament —before
" E " looked into the crystal, the case would have been traceable
to the glass knob and been somewhat analagous to Mr. Piddington's
experience and agency in the "Sevens" cross-correspondence. To
make the cross-correspondence conform to type, moreover, "E"
would have subconsiously to give telepathic injunctions to the eflfect
that other scripts were concerned or would make the matter clear.
A similar case might conceivably arise on the lines of the incident
reported by Mr. Andrew Lang, where a scryer experimenting for
a friend saw a vision connected with a person reading the paper at
the other end of the room. But here also it is probable that the
subject of the vision or some train of thought connected with it
had crossed the conscious mind of the unwitting agent before or
at the time of the experiment. To be conclusive, moreover, the
cross-correspondence would have to be unmistakably traceable to the
agent, and him alone : an almost impossible condition to establish.
Experiments on these lines would thus appear to be impossible.
They are, moreover, in the upshot attempts consciously to experi-
ment with the unconscious.
Your correspondent suggests that dreams afford an example of
the capacity of the subconscious to be actuated by desire.
But there is a good deal of evidence proving that dreams are
due to or connected symbolically or otherwise with the desires of
the waking self ; and it would again be difficult if not impossible
to prove the contrary. Even where the subconscious mind in
pathological cases is recalcitrant under hypnosis and refuses to
accept suggestion, the obsession or id^e fixe is the result of the prior
influence of the supraliminal self, or to some psychic perturbation
of which it is or has been aware.
88: Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1917.
I would in conclusion contend, though with considerable diffidence,
that the subconscious mind is incapable of absolutely spontaneous
volition, independent of influences with which the normal mind
has been or is cognisant, and that experiments of the kind
suggested by your correspondent are therefore a priori impossible.
I am not aware that the question has been thoroughly examined
by the Society, although it has been considered. One remembers.
Miss Johnson's remark that to produce cross-correspondence on
these lines committee meetings of the subliminals of the automatists.
would seem to be necessary to allot the scripts.
Ernest S. Thomas.
SUPPLEMENTAEY LIBEARY CATALOGUE.
Boolcs added to the Library since the last list, Journal, Jtdy 1915.
Barrett (Sir William F., F.R.S.), On the Threshold of the Unseen.
London, 191T..
Crawford (W. J., D.Sc), The Eeality of Psychic Phenomena.
London, 1916.
Driesch (Prof. Hans, Ph.D., LL.D.), The Problem of Individuality.
London, 1914.
^Extraits de Communications M^dianimiques. IV. Paris, 1917.
Freud (Dr. Sigm.), On Dreams. Translated by M. D. Eder. With an
introduction by W. Leslie Mackenzie, M.D., LL.D. London [n.d.]
Hill (J. Arthur), Psychical Investigations. London, 1917.
Holt (Henry), On the Cosmic Eelations. 2 Vols. London, 1915.
Jung (C. G., M.D.), Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology. Translated
by Dr. Constance Long. London, 1916.
^Kiesewetter (Karl), Der Occultismus des Altertums. Leipzig [n.d.];
2 (leseliichte des Neueren Occultismus. .
Leipzig, 1891.
•^Lodge (Sir Oliver, F.R.S.), Eaymond, or. Life and Death. London, 1916.
Nicoll (Dr. Maurice), Dream Psychology. London, 1917.
^Pearson (Norman), The Soul and its Story. '
London, 1916.
Philpott (Anthony J.), The Quest for Dean Bridgman Connor.
London [n.d.]
Regis (E.) and Hesnard (A.), La Psychoanalyse. Paris, 1914.
^Sidis (Boris), The Foundations of Normal and Abnormal Psychology.
London, 1914.
Smith (Prof. G. Elliott, M.D., F.B.S.) and Pear, T. H., B.Sc), Shell-
Shoek and its Lessons. Manchester and London, 1917.
'Yoga-System of Patanjali (The). Translated from the original Sanskrit
by Professor J. H. Woods. (Harvard Oriental Series.) U.S.A., 1915.
'
Presented by the Editor. = Presented by H. A. Auden, Esq.
" Presented by the Author. 'Presented by the Publishers.
5 Presented by Harvard University.
No. CCCXXXIX.—Vol. XVIII. Oct. -Nov., 1917.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Notice of Meeting, 89
New Members and Associates, . - - 90
Resignation of Honorary Treasurer, 91
Meeting of Council, 91
Cases, 92
Correspondence, '
• - - - 9S
Review, 103
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 22nd, 1917, at 3 p.m.
WHEN A TAPER ON
" Two Interesting Cases of
Supernormal Action and their Psychological
Significance"
WILL BE READ BY
'
Sir WILLIAM BARRETT, F.R.S.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
90 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct. -Nov., 1917.;
NEW MEMBEKS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
,
'
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals,
Baldwin, Mrs., 1 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
Fellowes, The Hon. Lady, Honingham, Norwich.
Gunnell, A. Mortimer, Broomfield Park College, New Southgate,
London, N. 11.
Harrison, Francis, 104 Craven Park, Harlesden, London, N.W. 10.
Hefford, Percy H., 387 Pershore Eoad, Selly Park, Birmingham.
Hensley, Mrs. Egerton, 14 Albert Court, Kensington Gore,
London, S.W. 7.
Manfield, Miss Muriel R., 63 Delaware Mansions, London, W. 9.
Maunsell, Captain G. A., R.E., 11 Highbury Mansions, Upper
Street, Islington, London, N. 1.
Osmaston, Mrs., Stoneshill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Park, William, 61 Eardley Crescent, Earl's Court, London, S.W. 5.
Pinney, Mrs., 17 Doune Terrace, N. Kelvinside, Glasgow.
Pinney, Miss Ida A.. 17 Doune Terrace, N. Kelvinside, Glasgow.
Preece, W. L., 8 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Purdon, Mrs., 72 Ridgmount Gardens, Gower Street, London,
W.C. 1.
Thesiger, Mrs. Ernest, 6 Montpelier Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
Whitmee, A. C., Homelands, Fortis Green, London, N. 2.
Brown, Captain A. D. Burnett, Greenhurst, Beaconsfield, Bucks.
Cook, Mrs. T. S., Bailey's Hotel, Kensington, London, S.W.
Deland, Mrs. Lorin F., 35 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Doe, George M., Enfield, Great Torrington, N. Devon.
Firnberg, Miss L. J., 158 Adelaide Road, London, N.W. 3.
Grenfell, Professor B. P., D.Litt., Queen's College, Oxford.
Holder, Henry L., 6 Lindum Terrace, Manningham, Bradford.
Holmes, Miss Lilian, The Firs, Charing, Kent.
Hubback, Mrs., 8 Grange Road, Cambridge.
Jennings-Bramly, Mrs., Hampton Court Palace, Middlesex.
Jones, J. Herbert, 7 Kitchener Drive, Orrell Park, Liverpool.
Lewis, Mrs. Gerald V., The Yews, Bletchingley, Surrey.
Librarian, Boston Athen^um, Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
McNeile, Rev. R. F., C.F., 15th Suffolks, Egyptian Expeditionary
Force. •
Oct. -Nov., 1917. Meeting of the Council. 91
Eeady, Miss E. A., 74 Eegent Road, Leicester.
'
Rogers, Rev. F. C, The Vicarage, Langley, Newport, Essex. "
;
Tottenham, Miss Mary T. A., Ballycurry, Ashford, Co. Wieklow,
Ireland.
RESIGNATION OF THE HONORARY TREASURER.
We have to announce with much regret that the Hon. Treasurer,
Mr. H. Arthur Smith, has been obliged to resign his oflB.ce on
account of ill-health. The resolution passed by the Council on
this occasion will be found below.
Mr. J. G. Piddington has been appointed Hon. Treasurer.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 14:9th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London ,
W., on Monday, October 8th, 1917, at
3 p.m. ; Sir William Barrett in the chair. There were
also present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Rt. Honble. G. W.
Balfour, Captain Bennett, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick ; also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Sixteen new Members and seventeen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for June, July, August and Septem-
ber, 1917, were presented and taken as read.
A letter was read from Mr. H. Arthur Smith resigning the
post of Hon. Treasurer on account of ill-health ; and the
following resolution was passed :
" The Council desire to place on record their great regret
that Mr. Henry Arthur Smith has found it necessary, owing
to iU health, to resign the post of Honorary Treasurer of
the Society for Psychical Research which he has held for
thirty-one years. They feel that to his zeal and devoted
service much of the success of the Society is due, and much
of the freedom from financial anxiety which the Council has
enjoyed. It is, however, not only for his work as Treasurer
that gratitude is due, but also for other important assistance as
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct.-Nov., 1917.
a Member of the Council. The Council hope that they may-
still have the benefit of his help in this way in the future."
Mr. J. G. Piddington was appointed Hon. Treasurer.
CASES.
I.
L. 1214. Two Dreams.
In the following case the percipient, Miss M. S. Wilkinson,
of 7 The Avenue, Clifton, York, twice dreamt vividly of an
air-raid at a time when one was actually in progress at a
distance. On the first occasion it is possible that Miss Wilkin-
son may have received some intimation of the raid by normal
means during sleep ; on the second occasion this hypothesis
does not seem tenable. In view of the frequency with which
air-raids occurred during the month of September, and of
the degree of expectation which was thereby aroused, it
is worth while to call attention to the fact that at the time
of Miss Wilkinson's dreams she had no special reason to
anticipate a raid.
1. The first report we received was in a letter from Miss
Wilkinson, as follows :
7 The Avenue, Clifton, York,
August 23, 1917.
I do not know whether you will consider the following incident
worth recording. In the night of Tuesday last, August 23rd-24th,^
there was an air raid alarm in this town. The warning is only
given by lights going out, and as I was already in bed I knew
nothing of it until I went down to breakfast in the morning. Our
night nurse was sitting up with my Mother ; she is very nervous,
and in previous alarms and raids has been much frightened. How-
ever, this time, because we had had such an anxious time, she put
a great compulsion on herself and did not call me, but she has
been saying ever since that she cannot understand how she was
able to do it^—she did not seem to be herself at all. The effect
on me was that I had a very vivid dream of a raid : I saw
^In replj'ing to this letter we called Miss Wilkinson's attention to the discre-
pancy in the date, Tuesday being August 21. She replied on August 25, 1917 :
" I am sorry for my stupid mistake in the date. Tuesday was of course the 21st."
It will be seen that Miss Wilkinson's first letter was written on August 23, 1917,
which makes it clear that her reference to " August 23rd-24th " was a slip of the
pen.
Oct. -Nov., 1917. Copses. 93
the Zeppelin (in my dream) and discussed with my brother
whether it was our own or hostile ; I saw the men prepare
to drop a bomb, and saw (but did not hear) the bomb drop and
explode. On that I awoke, and it was 6.30 a.m. Some bombs
were dropped on villages near the Humber, I see by the papers.
No remarks had been made about Zeppelins for a long time
previously, and the general impression was that we had finished
with them. In spite of being in innumerable alarms at Hull and
here, I have never dreamt of a raid before.
Marian S. Wilkinson.
We then wrote to Miss Wilkinson asking if she had related
her dream to anyone before she knew of the raid and if a
statement could be obtained from the nurse. We also asked
whether there was any possibility that Miss Wilkinson could
have heard the bombs in her sleep. Miss Wilkinson replied
as follows :
7 The Avenue, Clifton, York,
August 25, 1917.
I will try and answer the questions in your letter.
1. Unfortunately I did not mention my dream before hearing
of the alarm. I most probably should have done, but I had
no opportunity. On going down to breakfast about 8.20 I met
Mrs. Mercer (the night nurse) on the stairs, and as soon as ever
she saw me she said, " Do you know there has been an alarm
in the night ?
" I replied, " That is curious, because I have
had such a vivid dream of a raid "—or words to that effect. She
was the first person I saw that morning. I enclose her statement.
2. It is very difficult to get reliable information as to where
bombs fell. Those mentioned in the paper fell near Hull, about
45 miles from here (Hull is 42). During the war I have been
going backwards and forwards weekly between my school in
Hull and my home here, so that I have always had definite
knowledge of the numerous raids in both places, and I have
never heard of any case where a raid in Hull was heard here,
normally, or vice versa. A relief buzzer went about 3.30, and
was heard by Mrs. Mercer ; I do not know whether I could have
heard that in my sleep. I am not familiar with it, never having
heard it in use ; several people who did hear it thought it was
the whistle of a train. (My dream was not until just before
6-30.) Marian S. Wilkinson.
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct.-Nov., 1917.
The nurse's statement was as follows
:
Saturday, August 25th, 1917.
I, Mrs. Wilkinson's night nurse, met Miss Wilkinson on the
stairs about 8.20 a.m. Wednesday morning 22nd (August), saying :
" There has been a raid ; the gas went out about 12.30." Miss
Wilkinson remarked :
" Well, I have been dreaming about a raid
and Zepps. and bombs dropping." I then said to Miss Wilkinson :
" I would not call you or any one, until I heard the men coming
to call up," feeling very cool and not nervous, very unusual
for me. A. Mercer.
The following official report of the raid, which appeared in
the Times of August 23, 1917 :
-.
The following communiques were issued by the Field-Marshal
Commanding-in-Chief, Home Forces, yesterday [August 22] :
—
11 .15 a.m.
Enemy airships—numbers not definitely ascertained—appeared
off the Yorkshire coast last night [August 21-22].
One of the raiders attacked the mouth of the Humber, and
was fired on by anti-aircraft guns. She dropped some bombs
and then made off to sea.
The damage so far reported is slight, but one man was
injured.
4.10 p.m.
Latest reports show that, although a number of enemy
airships approached the Yorkshire coast last night, only one, or
at most two, ventured to come overland. Twelve high explosive
and 13 incendiary bombs were dropped at three small villages
near the coast ; a chapel was wrecked and several houses
damaged. One man was injured.
Our correspondent in a North-East Coast town telegraphs that
after some months' immunity from raids a Zeppelin appeared
on Tuesday night. It was promptly assailed by aircraft guns,
and driven off. One aged man was injured and was removed
to the infirmary. At a seaside resort in the district there was
an alarm, but no damage was done.
It will be seen from the above report that this was the
first Zeppelin-TSiid which had taken place for some time.
Although it is possible that Miss Wilkinson's dream was
occasioned by her hearing and interpreting in sleep the sound
Oct. -Nov., 1917. Cases. 95
of the "relief-buzzer," this does not appear very probable,
since she was not familiar with the sound, and her dream did not
occur until nearly three hours after the relief-signal was given.
2. Shortly afterwards we had a further communication from
Miss Wilkinson, as follows :
7 The Avenue, Clifton, York,
September 3, 1917.
Last night (the night of September 2-3) I again had the same
vivid dream of an air raid as the one I reported to you about
12 days ago. I saw the bomb drop, and saw, and this time also
heard, [it explode. When I awoke it was 4 a.m. A cousin
was sharing my room, and when she awoke about 7.45 I told
her of my dream ; I had not been downstairs or seen anyone
else. We rather smiled to think of my having dreamt the dream
on a night so unlikely, as we thought, for a raid ; there was
a brilliant moon and a high barometer. On getting into the
town about 11 we saw the notice of the raid on the Kentish
coast chalked up outside] the newspaper office. No one else
heard any noise or explosion during the night.
M. S. Wilkinson.
The foUowuig corroborative account was received from Miss
Wilkinson's cousin :
7 The Avenue, Clifton, York,
September 3, 1917.
On awaking this morning about 7.45, Miss M. S. Wilkinson
told me she had again dreamt of a raid and a bomb dropping.
It was a bright moonlight night and she had had no thought
of anything of the kind. It was not until 11 o'clock that we saw
the announcement of a raid on the Kentish coast.
Ada M. Fieldsend.
The following official report of the raid, which appeared in
the Times of September 3, 1917 :
The following communique issued by the Field-Marshal Com-
manding-in-Chief Home Forces at 11.50 last night, was received
at the Press Bureau at 1 o'clock this morning, and forwarded
to the Press at 1.30 :
—
Hostile aeroplanes crossed the Bast Kent coast at about
11.15 to-night [September 2, 1917], and flew seawards a few
minutes later.
96 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct. -Nov., 1917.
A few bombs were dropped.
There is no detailed information as regards casualties, but
they are believed to be small.
A message from the south-east coast early this morning reported
that a single enemy aeroplane flew over the coast about midnight.
The night was beautifully fine. The moon was full, and the
wind -had fallen somewhat. It is stated that six bombs were
dropped, and that two persons were injured.
Another report gives the number of injured persons as five
but they are not serious cases. The raid is described as having
lasted a few minutes only.
This was the first of the "moonlight" raids which became
so common in the latter part of September. The earlier
Zeppelin-raids—it will be remembered—usually took place
on moonless nights. Miss Wilkinson had therefore no reason
to expect a raid on that particular night, and since the raid
was in Kent, it does not seem that she could have become
aware of it during the night by any normal means.
In her original letter Miss Wilkinson states that these were
the only occasions upon which she had dreamt of an air-raid.
This statement she repeated on October 4, 1917, as follows :
Yes, it is quite correct to say that I have never except on
those two occasions dreamt of an air-raid, or of anything con-
nected with one. I am always (except just that once) called
up when there is the alarm at either York or Hull, so of course
that diminished the opportunities of dreaming.
M. S. Wilkinson.
IT.
The following report of a dream, sent to us by a member of
the Council, to whom the dreamer is well known, has no
direct bearing upon psychical research. But since the study
of dreams is likely to throw further light upon the workings
of the subconscious mind, it seems worth while to put the
case on record. The name and address of the dreamer have
been given to us, but are withheld by request.
M'^e print first an extract from a letter written by the
dreamer to the friend by whom the matter was reported
to this Society :
*
Oct. -Nov., 1917. Cases. 97
• July 25, 1917.
I think I have heard that there is a good deal of discussion
as to the length of time which dreams take, and whether some
external thing, like a noise, produces the dream, or is merely
worked into it. I had an idiotic dream this morning (as a rule
I do not consciously dream much, nor remember the particulars
afterwards) which seemed to me to bear on these two points,
so I have written it down.
The Dream.
This morning, July 26, 1917, I dreamt that I was going to
take 3 cats (tabby) and a black and white kitten for a walk
to . They all belonged to . One of the cats had been
ill so I had to carry her. I went out with them at the front
door. It was the old front door at top of steps, and I went
down the steps into the porch which was as it used to be when
carriages drove into it. The cat I was carrying was heavy and
slipped in my arms, and while I was trying to adjust it, I heard
a knock at the front door, inside. I waited a few moments
and then hearing the knock again, I went back and opened
the door, wondering as I went why the person knocking did
not open the door themselves. I found the o'd housekeeper
Mrs. inside (as you know, she left us about 6 or 8 years
ago and is now dead). Just then I heard the knocking again.
She said she had not knocked, and we could not make out
where the knocking came from. I heard it again, and wondered
whether it came from the Red room above, and went out to
look up and see. Knocking came again, but did not seem to
be from there. Then I suppose I began to awake for at the
next knock I began to think it must be my maid knocking
at my bedroom door—which proved to be the case.
When I got up I asked my maid whether she had knocked
more than once, and she said she had knocked 7 or 8 times
with a few seconds between each knock, and had begun to think
I must have gone to the bathroom already, when at last I
answered. A. B.
P.S.—The cat was still in my arms, and tiresome to hold, and
the other cats and the kitten were waiting to be taken for
their walk, up to the moment when I began to realise what
the knocking really was.
98 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct.-Nov., 1917.
The interest of the dream lies in the fact that it is possible
to trace fairly accurately the relation between the real time
and the dream time. In this case the length of time apparently
occupied by the events of the dream seems to have been
about the same as the time occupied by the repeated knocking
at the door, that is the external event which was reflected
in the dream and in part at least gave rise to it.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The "St. PAUii" Cross-Correspondences.^
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—Has sufficient emphasis been placed on the words
" the name is not right robbing Peter to pay—Paul " which
appear in Miss Verrall's script ?
If, —and Mr. Piddington would appear to agree—we take this
passage to refer to the experiment arranged on Nov. 15, 1906, the
following argument is possibly sound.
Consider the words " the name is not right robbing Peter to
pay—Paul " by themselves alone without reference to any other
script. What do they suggest ? They suggest a previous experi-
ment in which the name Paul or something relating directly
to the name was to be got through, hut in which Peter had
been used for the purposes of Paul. Is not this a conclusion that
Miss Verrall might have arrived at from a consideration only
of her own script ? I suggest that I have put no gloss on the
words of her script.
If the above reasoning be sound what should we expect when
we consider Mrs. Holland's script ? We should expect script
attempting to get a cross-correspondence in which the name Paul
was involved, and involved as a leading factor. For Miss Verrall
knew that experiments for cross-correspondences were on foot
between Sir Oliver and Mrs. Piper, though she knew nothing
of what any particular experiment was. I submit that the
message to her, considered alone, gave her information not only
as to a previous experiment but that the leading factor in the
experiment was the name Paul. Bear in mind that the names
Peter and Paul do not occur elsewhere in the Verrall script
during the same period.
iSee Jour. S.P.I!., July, 1917.
'
i
OcT.-Nov., 1917. Correspondence. 99
Now turn to the Holland script. Assume in the first place
it was not so definite as it was, that is, assume there was only
a bare reference to II Peter,—no chapter or verse given.
Then what have we ? We have in Miss Verrall's script reference
to an experiment in which the name Paul was the leading factor
and in which experiment the name was wrong, because Peter
was used to rob Paul, and we have in Mrs. Holland's script an
Epistle of Peter referred to in which the name Paul occurs and
occurs only once,—Peter is '
robbed ' for emphasis of the name
Paul. Even thus there is cross-correspondence.
But, as the matter stands, it is far more definite. For the
reference in Mrs. Holland's script to II Peter i. 15, and by
the slight emendation suggested by Dr. Prince, we have a direct
and striking cross-correspondence. For II Peter iii. 15 marks
the one reference in St. Peter's Epistle to Paul : Peter is robbed
to pay—Paul.
This proposed emendation is not the result of a bow drawn
at a venture. It is euggested by the very form of Miss Verrall's
script. . .
•
" F. C. Constable.
On the Evidence for Survival.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—While there are certain points in the comments
of Dr. Jacks mentioned in the May-June Journal, which have
a limited acceptance, they may produce an illusion in regard to
what proof is. I agree with Sir Oliver Lodge that survival has
been scientifically proved, but it is equally true that there have
not been large conversions. Belief, however, is no part of proof.
Darwinism was proved by the Origin of Species in 1859, but
it was not much believed before 1880.
Mr. Jacks is sound when he says that " the will to disbelieve
is as active as the will to believe," but I think him unfortunate
in his illustration of the " ingenuity " which he says may dis-
qualify belief on any problem. It is true enough that human
" ingenuity " can say anything in opposition to a claim, but
saying an " objection " is not making it this. Objections require
as much proof as assertions. They are often only negative pro-
positions in disguise. Human " ingenuity " is mostly ignorance and
of course you cannot argue against ignorance. Mr. Jacks thinks we
could not produce " conclusive proof " that we had passed through
100 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct. -Nov., 1917.
our own doors, though saying no one could doubt it. I would say
that the fact that no doubt existed about it was proof. If a
thing cannot be proved it may be doubted, unless you assert
that proof is not the basis of belief. If this be true, we are
reduced to a state of war at once. If we cannot agree on a
fact, it is not proved, though not because the agreement is a part
of the proof, but the fact of agreement is evidence that the
proof exists in some measure. It is true that there is " ingenuity
"
enough to raise apparent doubts about the most assured things,
but a little investigation will show that the difficulty is either
with our ignorance in regard to what evidence is, or with paradoxes
not easily resolved, or equivocations not easily detected. These
are not grounds for doubt but are children's puzzles.
Mr. Jacks also shows some interesting confusion about personality
and continuity. He seems to distinguish between them in too
radical a way. The fact is that continuity is one of the main
characteristics of personality and personal identity one of the
main conditions of it. He assumes that we ought first to prove
the continuity of life and then personal identity. But you cannot
prove this continuity except by proving personal identity. That
is all that we mean by the continuity of life after death. Personal
identity includes consciousness and usually self-consciousness, and
any continuity without this would be no life at all. Hence we
cannot prove the continuity without proving the personal identity.
I should be cautious about entering into any elaborate theory
of personal identity, as that might lead to conceptions far more
doubtful, as the thing to be proved, than the evidence for survival.
The trouble with philosophers usually is that they muddle almost
everything they touch. The conception of personal identity does
not require a large treatise to make it plain. All its complications
may require this, but not the general conception of it. It is
simply the general stream of consciousness with their mnemonic
connection plus the continuity of kind which makes the stream
identical even when we are not self-conscious of that identity.
Or briefly, it is the stream of mental events with a memory
connection, and that definition suffices for determining whether
the observed facts support the continuance of them after the
dissolution of the body. That is, do the facts observed after
death prove the existence of the same stream we knew before
death ? That is all we need for our work.
Oct. -Nov., 1917. Correspondence. 101
As for myself I would not believe in survival for one moment
unless the phenomena of psychic research proved it. It is strange
that Mr. Jacks doubts the evidence of psychic research and
maintains a belief in survival on grounds that are not evidence
at all. It is like saying that he is convinced of Darwinism,
but that no one had ever given any proof of it. What is the
ground of his belief ? Is it evidence ? Apparently not. Is it
some philosophical assumption or the " will to believe " ? No
philosophic assumption is worth any more than the evidence
on which it rests and he has already discredited the " will to
believe." Psychic research endeavours to give facts for its proof.
Has Mr. Jacks any facts others do not know ? Or has he only
a pious opinion based upon the assumption of the rationality
of nature ? That would be exposed to a double attack. We might
maintain that there is no proof of this rationality until survival
was proved. Or we might maintain that the " rationality " of
nature without this proof was an abstraction that did not or
might not contain the very thing to be proved. This is the
case with a great deal of reasoning from generalizations. It
was this that made Professor James a pragmatist.
James H. Hyslop.
On the Evidence for Survival.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—Neither of your correspondents in the last issue
(July) seem to me to meet the point raised by Miss Sinclair.
She suggests that the common interest and desire of the investi-
gators that a test case may be provided may telepathically
stimulate the subconscious self of the medium with the result
that its dramatizing and inventive powers become so enhanced
that it quite surpasses itself. The living investigators give it
the general idea of what they want it to do and by the influence
of their desire unconsciously will it into doing it.
This suggestion harmonizes with a suspicion which I have long-
entertained that the real agent in cross-correspondence is a joint
mind subliminally common to the investigators, and shaped by
their waking interests. The subliminal group-mind then finds
expression and outlet through mediums in telepathic contact
with the group. There is no proof that subliminal mind is as
individualized as our supraliminal selves. On the contrarv, the
102 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct. -Nov., 1917
phenomena of crowd-psychology, espit de corps, '
atmospheres,'
and the like suggest the reverse. The most striking instance of
a group-mind acting piirposively through individuals severally
devoid of so much thought and purpose is perhaps a hive of
bees. Many of the published cross-correspondences suggest the
idea of a subliminal S.P.E. group-mind which has been gradually
drilled into the art of playing the game of literary jigsaw, invented,
possibly, by Dr. Verrall in 1906. If so, and if it is still laden
with Verrallian learning, neither its ingenuity nor the recondite
character of its allusions will be able to prove survival.
There are indeed three possibilities which seem to me to make
the proof of survival, even by such exceptionally good pieces of
evidence as the Ear of Dionysius, necessarily inconclusive. One
is the group-mind hypothesis just referred to. The second is
indirect telepathy, as in the case of Adele Marginot's vision of
the man who jumped at the word " Jesuits." Possibly the
Raymond photograph was another instance of this, the agent
being Mrs. Cheves via Lady, or Sir Oliver, Lodge. The third
is the possible fact of telaesthesia. It may be that an omniscient
consciousness is the presupposition of all knowledge and aU per-
ception. The ordinary avenues of knowledge may be just instru-
ments for letting certain elements of divine omniscience through,
while telaesthesia and precognition are cases of abnormal trans-
mission. It may be that mediumship may provide another avenue
to fragments of omniscience.
If there is any force in these arguments the conclusion would
be that survival can never be proved by alleged communications
from the departed. It could only be proved by information
respecting the other world which could not be psychologically
explained. Such information would not, of course, be " evi-
dential " in the sense of " verifiable as the exclusive possession
of such and such departed persons." But if it were of a kind
that could not, from the standpoint of psychology, have been
invented without access to information nowhere contained in this
world, it would point to the reality of some extra-mundane
experience. There are limits to the powers of imagination, and
if cases occur in which those limits are transcended we should
have to assume the reality of supermundane experiences.
R. Gordon Milburn.
Oct. -Nov., 1917. Review. 103
EEVIEW.
Dream Psychology. By Maurice Nicoll, M.B., Capt. (Temp.) R.A.M.C.
(Oxford Medical Publications.) 6s. net.
Any writer who maintains that dreams are intelligible products
of mental activity and that their purpose and meaning can be
made plain is sure to have many sceptics amongst his readers.
The criticism of such a reader will be specially concentrated
on those parts of the book which deal with the interpretation
of dreams. For it is on his view of the legitimacy of the method
of interpretation and of its adequacy that he will judge the
dream doctrines as a whole. It may perhaps be held as a reproach
to all writers on dream interpretation that they so seldom succeed
in carrying conviction to the roinds of their readers. But they
often confess that they do not expect to convince any one, for
conviction, they say, comes only by personal experience.
In his chapter on Interpretation Dr. Nicoll says :
" In the
old views about dreams, it was recognized that their values
were symbolical and that they required some kind of interpretation.
The interpretations that were given were teleological ; that is,
they were regarded as products with a purposive and prospective
aim. They were prophetic. But in seeking to put a definite
value on their symbolism the help of the dreamer was not invoked,
so that interpretation became a matter of ingenuity. When
Daniel interpreted Nebuchadnezzar's dream, he did not question
the king about any of its symbols, but evolved the interpretation
wholly out of his own mind."
What Dr. Nicoll here says of the old views about dreams
may be applied without much injustice to the views put forward
by him in this book. Here also the interpretations given are
teleological ; that is, they are regarded as products with a pur-
posive and prospective aim. But no reason is given why they
should be so regarded, except the assertion that it is possible
to take up such a view. Nor is Dr. NicoU's exposition quite
free from the reproach which he makes against the old interpreters
that in seeking to put a definite value on the symbolism of
dreams the " associations " of the dreamer were not invoked.
For this is precisely the sort of objection that is apt to arise
in the reader's mind regarding the interpretations of many of
the dreams recorded in this book. No doubt want of space
104 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oot.-Nov., 1917.
is in many cases a good reason for omitting the detailed associa-
tions of the dreamer which alone would justify the interpretation
given ; but the sceptical reader who is looking for some justifica-
tion of the doctrines of dream psychology will be suspicious
of the many occasions on which the " associations " used in the
interpretation of the dream appear to be those of the interpreter
rather than those of the dreamer. It is perhaps significant that
the fullest interpretation given of any one dream is in the case
of a boy who " gave no associations." " We are at liberty
then," Dr. Nicoll says, " to take the dream into our own hands,
and see how it can be applied to the patient's situation." But
that is just what Daniel did.
Although the all-important matter of interpretation is inade-
quately dealt with, there is in Dr. Nicoll's book much that is
interesting and instructive. But its scope is limited. He says,
in his preface, that he will " feel justified in producing this book
if it enables its readers to regard the dream, in some degree,
from Dr. Jung's standpoint."
He therefore confines himself almost exclusively to an exposition
of some of the views put forward in recent years by Jung, and
many of the real problems of dream psychology are not touched
upon at all. Such a result can hardly be avoided by anyone
who at the present day undertakes to discuss the psychology
of dreams while practically ignoring Freud's work. If the student
is already acquainted with the pioneer work of Freud not much
harm will be done, but if he takes up this book as an intro-
duction to the subject of dream psychology, he is apt to be
misled as to the relative importance of the work of Freud which
is fundamental, and of those more recent developments of Jung's
work which are rather of the nature of a heretical departure
from a former faith.
The value of Dr. Nicoll's book mainly lies in that it affords
a convenient summary of Jung's views. Its chief defect, for
the student, is that it fails to indicate the relation between
Jung's later views and those more firmly established principles
on which all dream analysis is based. T. W. M.
Nos. CCCXL.-XLI.—Vol. XVIII. Dec. 1917-Jan. 1918.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Notice of Meeting, 105
New Members and Associates, 100
Meetings of Council, 107
Private Meeting, 107
The Influence of Hypnotic Suggestion on Inflammatory Conditions, . - - - 108
Further on the "St. Paul" Cross-Correspondence, 112
A New Edition of " Phantasms of the Living," 121
Correspondence, 122
Review, 128
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A Private Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBER,
ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF 20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
On THURSDAY, JANUARY i\st, 191 8, at 4.30 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER WILL BE READ ON :
" A Series of Sittings with Mrs. Leonard
"
BY
Miss RADCLYFFE-HALL and Mrs. TROUBRIDGE.
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members
and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
106 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, dec. 1917-
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Barlow, Miss Katharine, St. Valerie, Biay, Co. Wicklow, Ireland.
Bell, Dr. Mary C, 33 York Street Chambers, London, W. 1.
Braithwaite, Major-General Walter P., C.B., c/o Messrs. Cox &
Co., 16 Charing Cross, London, S. W. I.
Dimmock, Mrs. H. P., 23 Homefield Road, Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W. 19.
Harris, Mrs. Herbert A., 22 Bina Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Hervey, Miss Geraldine M., 8 Gliddon Road, West Kensington,
London, W. 14.
Hoseason, A. G. H., The Bungalow, Tanworth-in-Arden, Birmingham.
Morris, Miss Helen L., The Fore Hill, Ely, Cambs.
Savory, Ernest J. C., 61 Carey Street, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C. 2.
Taylor, Mrs. Lewis S., 14 Frobisher Terrace, Falmouth.
Williamson, John, M.D., The Rhallt, Burgh Heath Road, Epsom,
Surrey.
Barclay, Mrs. Edwyn, lOj Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W. 1.
Burton, Miss M. G., 2 Airlie Gardens, Campden Hill, London, W. 8.
Caocia, Major A. M., 24 Morpeth Mansions, Westminster, Lon-
don, S.W. 1.
Cave, Captain A. L., Sherwood, Newton St. Cyres, Devon.
CoMPTON, Henry, 1709 Sills Street, Fort William, Ontario, Canada.
CoxETER, Harold, 34 Holland Park Road, Kensington, London, W. 14.
Hawley, Miss Zoii, 129 Church Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Holland, Mrs. H. C, Wheathills, Kirk Langley, Derby.
Holland, W. A., Plantation House, Bishop's Stortford, Herts.
Ludford-Astley, Mrs. A. G., 31a King's Road, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Madders, Mrs. H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4.
M'GiLL, Edward E., Towanda, Bradford County, Pa., U.S.A.
Nash, Miss Diana, 2611 Guilford Road, Cleveland Heights, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
SiBLY, F. Arthur, LL.D., Haywardsfield, Stonehouse, Glos.
Streatfeild, W. H. R., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 42 Ovington Square,
London, S.W. 3.
Talbot, P. Amaury, Forcados, Southern Nigeria.
Tennent, W. J., 69 Essex: Street, Masterton, New Zealand.
WiLLCOCKS, Miss M. P., 35 Pennsylvania Road, Exeter.
Jan., 1918 Ne%u Members and Associates. 107
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 150th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, November 22nd, 1917,
at 4.30 p.m.: Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair. There were
also present: the President, Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Et.
Hon. G. W. Balfour, Sir William Barrett, the Eev. M. A.
Bayfield, Captain E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Mr.
J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, and Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick; also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss I. Newton,
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Seven new Members and fourteen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for October, 1917, were presented
and taken as read.
The 151st Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, December loth, 1917, at
3.15 p.m.: the Et. Hon. G. W. Balfour in the chair. There
was also present: Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett,
the Eev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. L.
Fox Pitt, Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick;
also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Four new Members and four new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for November, 1917, were presented
and taken as read.
PEIVATE MEETING FOE MEMBEES AND
ASSOCIATES.
The 57 th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber, at 20
Hanover Square, London, W., on Thursday, November 22nd,
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec. 1917-
1917, at 3 p.ni. : the Et. Hon. G. W. Balfour in the
chair.
Sir William Barrett read a paper entitled " Two Interesting
Cases of Supernormal Action and their Psychological Sig-
nificance."
'"
At the conclusion of his paper, Sir William Barrett gave
a short account, corroborated by Mr. Hesketh, the engineer-
manager of the Electricity Supply Works at Folkestone, of an
interesting poltergeist case, which has recently occurred in that
town. It is hoped that a detailed report of tliis case will
appear shortly in the Journal.
THE INFLUENCE OF HYPNOTIC SUGGESTION ON
INFLAMMATORY CONDITIONS.
In The Lancet for November 3, 1917, there is an interesting article
by J. Arthur Hadfield, M.A., M.B., Temporary Surgeon R.N.,
under the above title. As Surgeon Hadfield remarks :
there has from time to time been considerable controversy as to
whether it is possible to produce blisters on the skin by hypnotic
suggestion alone, and the present case, which has been most
carefully observed, afiords important evidence on this disputed
point.
The subject of these experiments, " Leading Seaman H. P.,"
was a patient at the Royal Naval Hospital, Chatham, who
was being treated for " shell-shock " symptoms and had been
found very susceptible to hypnotic suggestion. On one occasion
Surgeon Hadfield " was exhibiting to another surgeon one or
two sensory phenomena produced under hypnosis, including
the suggestion to the patient " that he was being touched
with a red-hot iron. The following effect was observed :
When I touched him with my finger he withdrew his arm
in such evident pain that I proceeded to suggest that a blister
would form. I then wakened him and thought little more about
the matter. But half an hour later tbe patient returned and
asked whether I had done anything to his arm when he was
hypnotised, as it was painful and burning, and he pointed to
a blister which was indeed forming and ultimately became fuU
Jan., 1918. The Influence of Hypnotic Suggestion. 109
of flxiid and surrounded with hyperaemia. This experiment,
however, I did not regard as conclusive, because the patient had
scratched the part, and it might be argued that this alone had
produced the blister. In any case probably the scratching
accelerated the formation of the blister. It is worth noting, how-
ever, that the patient knew nothing of my intention nor remem-
bered anything of my suggestion during hypnosis. I therefore
explained to him what I had done and asked his co-operation,
inasmuch as it involved suffering of pain : this he readily gave.
A second and a third experiment were then made under
increasingly strict conditions. Concerning the third experiment
Surgeon Hadfield writes as follows
:
This time the lateral aspect of the upper arm was chosen
instead of the anterior aspect of the forearm. Suggestions were
made in the same manner as before, but the following stricter
precautions were taken. I was personally never left alone with
the patient ; the patient was never left alone ; and I personally
never touched the arm of the patient, this being done by another
surgeon present, whilst I made the verbal suggestions. Throughout
the day the patient was watched, and at night-time he was
not only watched by the night-nurse, next to whose table his
bed was placed, but his arm was securely bound up and sealed
as before [in the second experiment]. The next morning the
bandage was removed in the presence of three surgeons (including
the Deputy Surgeon-General). The seal and bandage were found
to be intact, and beneath there was on the spot suggested the
beginning of a blister as before, which gradually developed during
the day to form a large bleb with an area of inflammation
around.
Other varieties of experiment were also tried, as follows :
{a) The experimenter touched a spot on the patient's arm
and made the suggestion that he had touched it with a
red-hot iron, that a blister would form, but no pain ivould
he felt. In this case no blister formed. (6) On two occasions
the patient was actually burnt with the end of a steel pencil-
<iase heated in a Bunsen flame. On the first occasion the
suggestion was made that there should be no pain.
There was no pain either when the skin was touched or after-
-wards. But the remarkable thing was that in these burns there
-
a2
110 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec. 1917-
was no Jiyperaemia around. Round each of the two spots which
themselves presented the ordinary appearance of blisters, there
was a thin red line and nothing more. These blisters healed
very rapidly and never gave any sign of inflammation or pain.
On the second occasion the experimenter
made an actual burn and suggested pain—the condition, of course
which would occiir in the normal waking state, except that in.'
this case the patient, being hypnotised, forgot all about it when
he was " wakened." This continued to pain afterwards, and in
this case there was very considerable hyperaemia, and the burn
took longer to heal.
In his conclusions Surgeon Hadfield draws attention to the
following points :
(a) The effect of pain in retarding healing processes.
(6) The regulation of the blood-supply.
• It is a well-known fact that hyperaemia may be produced by
suggestion. The experiments made in producing blisters show
to what lengths this regulation of the blood-supply can go in a
susceptible patient.
Finally Surgeon Hadfield states that although he does not
expect that " these experiments will convince those who are
unacquainted with hypnotic work,"
they were conducted under the strictest scientific conditions^
and were such as to satisfy the surgeons, of whom there were
eight or nine, who had a share in them. Moreover in order to
show my good faith in the matter, I am quite jjrepared to repeat
the experiments under any conditions that may be considered
necessary, when the exigences of war permit of my doing so,
provided I can obtain the consent of the patient, to whose endur-
ance during several hours of pain I am indebted for the oppor-
tunity of conducting the experiments.
A photograph of the patient's arm is given, showing the
various blisters formed during the experiments, and also a
safety-pin " introduced through the flesh to indicate the reality
of the hypnosis and the analgesia produced by suggestion."
The above case presents interesting analogies with earlier
cases which are on record. For example, in Human Personalittf
Jan., 1918. The Infltience of Hypnotic Suggestion. Ill
and its Survival of Bodily Death, Vol. I., p. 470, Myers quotes
a case given by Delboeuf, which well demonstrates the influence
of pain upon the healing processes. The subject, J., was a
strong, healthy peasant-girl.
After explaining what he proposed to do and obtaining her
consent in the waking state, Delboeuf hypnotised her, extended
her arms on a table, and suggested that the right arm should
be insensible to pain. Each arm was then burnt with a red-hot
bar of iron, 8 mm. in diameter, the extent and duration of its
application being the same in both, but pain being felt in the
left arm alone. The burns were bandaged and J. was sent to
bed. During the night the pain in the left arm continued, and
next morning there was a wound on it 3 cm. in diameter, with
an outer circle of inflamed blisters. On the right there was
only a defined eschar, the exact size of the iron and without
inflammation or redness. The day following the left arm was
still more painful and inflamed ;
analgesia was then successfully
suggested, when the wound soon dried and the inflammation
disappeared. Thus in the originally painless wound there was
at first less inflammation and a more rapid healing than in the
painful one.
The evidence afforded by such cases as Surgeon Hadfield's on
the effect of suggestion upon the blood-supply throws an
interesting light on the mediaeval traditions of stigmatisation,
as, for example, in the story of St. Francis of Assisi. The
best-recorded modern case of stigmatisation is that of Louise
Lateau, which is related in Human Personality, Vol. I., p. 492.
In this instance the stigmata occurred spontaneously, not as
the result of suggestion from another person. An interesting
experimental case is recorded in Human Personality, Vol. I.,
p. 493, and also in Jour. S.P.R., Vol. III., p. 100, and Proc,
S.P.R., Vol. VII., p. 339. The experimenter in this case
was Dr. Biggs, of Lima, and a red cruciform mark was pro-
duced on the subject's chest. In some of these earlier cases,
however, the conditions were not so strict as absolutely to
preclude some other possible explanation of the phenomena
observed. Surgeon Hadfield's excellently observed case is
therefore an important contribution to the subject.
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec. 1917-
FURTHEK ON THE " ST. PAUL " CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE.*
By Walter F. Prince, Ph.D.
Had my whole paper consisted of the following paragraph, " To
find a cross-correspondence between '
St. Paul ' in Mrs. Piper's
script and the citation '
II Peter i. 15 '
in Mrs. Holland's, it is
only necessary to substitute at random for the latter some other
passage mentioning Paul, as I Corinthians xvi. 21, '
The salutation
of Paul with mine own hand,' " then Mr. Piddington's Note
would have proved an apt and ample reply. For such an absurd
suggestion would certainly have been in order " to obtain a
more effective cross-correspondence," which he intimates was
my sole " justification " for the emendation which I actually did
propose.
He is utterly silent on my whole argument. He ignores every
one of its ten points : (1) That the suggested emendation con-
templates no change of writer, epistle or verse, but only of
the chapter, from first to third, (2) That the odds are 11 to 1
against coinciding by chance with the one verse in Peter's epistles
which names Paul, (3) That the error of "first" for "third"
is precisely that most likely to occur in an auditory process
of transmission, (4) That the emendation further curiously brings
us upon the one non-Pauline passage of the New Testament
which names Paul, (5) That it further brings us to the one
verse in all the New Testament which most pointedly charac-
terizes Paul, (6) That Miss Veriall's two passages are full of
hints that a mistake or defect exists in this very matter of
" St. Paul " known to Lodge, and of the nature of the defect
or mistake, (7) That the second item of Mrs. Holland's script,
" this witness is true," instead of being " remimscent of several
passages in the writings of St. John," is a literal quotation from
St. Paul, as well as is the fifth item, (8) That the third item,
instead of being non-significant, is reminiscent of a passage from
Paul, (9) That Miss Verrall's first Latin sentence is capable of
a simpler and smoother translation, which causes it to be intelli-
gible and relevant, (10) That the emendation of the Petrine
passage like magic brings order into the threefold series of scripts,
and causes the whole to be instinct with meaning.
It would be more to the point to meet these propositions
* For previous article see Jowr. jS.P.i?., July, 1917.
Jan., 1918. "*S'^. Paul" Gross-Correspondence. 113
squarely, than to indulge in innuendoes in regard to altering
facts " to suit our theories," justifying one's self by the wish
to obtain " a more effective cross-correspondence," and the like.
I did not care twopence how the " St. Paul " inquiry turned
out, and my " theory " was forced upon me by the unexpected
discovery of the facts and their mutually strengthening relations.
Unlike my friend, I neither " prefer to abide by what the automatist
wrote " nor to depart therefrom, for my ground is chosen for me by
logical necessity. Darwin was liable to the imputation that he wanted
to prove natural selection, but the important question is, did he prove
it ? Nor are my proofs affected by concocting without proof a theory
of my personal biases.
Neither can my evidence be excluded by arbitrarily-invented rules,
rather pontifically laid down, as to emendable and non-emendable
matter. This sort of thing is undoubtedly " cricket," since cricket
is a pastime governed by artificial rules, but it is not science,
nor even common-sense. Any emendation is imperative if ade-
quately supported by evidence from whatever quarter. No emenda-
tion is permissible, whatever its situation, if the evidence is
against it. And that is all that there is to the matter.
The distinction drawn between the text of classical authors
and automatic scripts, as to the permissibility of emendations,
is fallacious. The script, like the Iliad, is a text to be amended,
for precisely analogous reasons, whenever sufficient evidence to support
the emendation is presented. The earliest manuscript which we have
of the Iliad is not its first deliverance, and neither is the script of the
automatist. The utterance of the " communicator " is the original.
Often this utterance has to be handed on by a " control " or inter-
mediary.i " Comxnunicators " claim that they cannot get their
word or phrase through, and " controls " explain that they did not
hear it correctly. Not infrequently, when it gets through, it becomes
distorted in the process, sometimes gradually resolving, by succes-
sive trials, into the expression intended ; sometimes remaining
in an erroneous form, without the fact being necessarily perceived
by the communicator or any " dissatisfaction " being expressed.
1 1 do not care for the purposes of the argument whether " communicator
"
and " control " aie spirits, or subliminal personalities exhibiting " dis-
continuity of consciousness." Mr. Piddington is convinced that they are
one or the other. See 323a, 229d-230a. (The references here and hereafter,
are to the British Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXII., and the adjoined letter
a, b, e or d, ia to show approximately the position on the page.)
114 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec. 1917
It is precisely as logical and scientific to emend a script, when
good reasons demand it, as it is to emend a classical text ; and
it is a much more hopeful task, in some instances, since the
classical text has been passed on from one to another so many
more times than the wording of the script.
Mr. Piddington lays down, expressly or by implication, his
three rules relative to the emendation of scripts.
(1)
" Emendation, except as regards mere slips of the pen,
ought to be eschewed."
(2) A word or phrase may be emended " when the immediate
context of it can be shown to support the emendation," but
not " on the strength of something to be found in the script
of " another.
(3) If a particular word or phrase is set down, and no dissatis-
faction with it is expressed in the context, it ought (if neither
of the above rules apply) to stand.
Rule 1, since it allows for neither contextual support nor
contextual dissatisfaction, is negatived by Rules 2 and 3. Neither
are any of them " canons," or fundamental and invariable maxims.
But even the rules of a game should be adhered to by their
inventor, so let us see how our friend plays his " cricket."
The most of his emendations are contrary of rule 1, since
they do not concern " mere slips of the pen " but auditory errors,
and many are in defiance of all three. It is an embarrassment
to select from such a wealth of instances.
On February 11, 1907, " Myers " asked through Mrs. Piper if the
word " Evangelical " had come in Mrs. Verrall's script ; on
February 13, Mr. Piddington asked Myers when he gave the
word to Mrs. Verrall, and was again assured that this word and
none other was meant. On the 27th " Evangelical " was again
written. It did not connect with anything, but what of that
—since scripts are " for the most part . . . incoherent " ? But
Mr. Piddington was unaccountably disturbed, and pointedly asked
Myers if the word was right, and was assured that it was, and
that it was given for a purpose. Nothing in the " immediate
context " suggested that anything else was meant, it was not
a " slip of the pen," and emphatically no " dissatisfaction " was
hinted at. And though on March 4,
" Evelyn Hope " was written,
the shadowy resemblance between this and " Evangelical " did
not by itself warrant tra,nsmuting one into the other, nor was
Jan., 1918. "St. Paul" Cross-Correspondence. " 115
-there anything in the context to suggest it. Why then did he do
it ? For no reason except that Myers had said he gave the
former word to Mrs. Verrall, and in Mrs. VerralFs script had
appeared something which would link on to " Evelyn Hope,"
hut nothing related to " Evangelical." Then Mr. Piddington
asked Myers if he did not after all mean " Evelyn Hope," and
all was well. Yet he innocently remarks that " the modification
"
was " spontaneous and not traceable to any influence from me " !
On the contrary, so far as proof goes, it was solely manufactured
by him. The words " Evelyn Hope " did appear spontaneously,
but the identification of them with " Evangelical " is quite a
different matter. The emendation is probably valid, but it
breaks all the rules. (320c, 322c, 334b, 340d, Qlc.)
Thrice " Del Sarto " was given as a cross-correspondence
word intended to come out in Mrs. Verrall's script ;
" there
is nothing in the context to show that any dissatisfaction was
felt with the reference as given," nor the smallest indication
in the " immediate context " that it is to be emended to form
the " good test " that Kector declared it to be. In the " script
of '
B's,' " meaning Mrs. Verrall's, " Del Sarto " did not appear,
but it did contain anagrams on the word " star." From this
forbidden tree, " the script of B's," the hint is plucked, ''
Del
Sarto " is remodelled as " lode-star," and now relations are found
in both scripts. This is not to " improve a cross-correspondence !
"
but to create one ! ! (355-6, etc.). Why stop here 1 Other
anagrams based on " Del Sarto " are feasible, of which " east
lord " is one. This connects admirably with cross-correspondence
XIX. (241 ff.). If anyone has read the painful (of course the time-
honom'ed sense of painstaking is implied) discussion on pages 253-
261 he will instantly perceive that the god Hercules who figures
so prominently there, and whose club signified the East, is the
" east lord." Besides, have we not here the reason why Mrs.
Verrall's script departed from the strict Tennysonian line and
put it " Rosy is the east " ? It was in order to clasp hands
with the anagram, for surely the east is made rosy by the rising
^'
east lord," the sim (271) !
•
.
;
In Mrs. Piper's script occurred " Maud Garten-Carter." It would
hardly spontaneously occur to one to identify Maud Carter
"
with " Marion Carver." The context does not suggest any altera-
tion, no " dissatisfaction " is visible. But " B's " script has a
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec. 1917-
" Marion Carver," so a little collateral evidence is scratchedi
together, and a definite addition is made to the cross-corre-
spondences (207-8).
Mr. Piddington conjectures that " Sasia Saisia Francis," in
" a script of A's " should be changed to Francis d'Assisi," not
on any of the grounds v?hich he has formally approved, but
because, on the basi? of another document, Myers' " Human Per-
sonality," he thinks that this saint may be classed with others
who are mentioned in the script. He is not very sure, because
the evidence is slight, but by his own rule he oughb not tO'
accept the evidence at all (135d).
The man who emends " Dina " in " Blna dos anados," etc.,
to mean Diana, by recourse to " ana " in " anados" and other
subtle guesses, ought not to be offended at an emendation which
gives a plain, rational account of itself. 1 think that the con-
jecture that " Diana " was the word aimed at is probably correct
but cannot conceal that it would not have been ventured but
for the occurrence of the same word in " B's " script (Mrs. Verrall)
and in " A's " (Mrs. Piper) of quite a different date. There
is not space for more examples.
I object to the intimation implied in the remark about the
" incoherence," etc., of scripts, that if there is found a phrase
or name unintelligible in relation to its context, it is not legitimate-
to follow any clues which may lead to intelligibility. What is
Mr. Piddington doing in half of his lengthy discussions ? Why-
is he racing through ancient and modern literature, but for this ?
His whole undertaking is based upon the assumption that ration-
ality underlies the scripts, that something intelligible was intended,
however blundering the efforts to attain to it. He confesses
that he is firmly convinced of the " intelligence and design
"
manifested in the scripts (103a), or " the intelligent direction
and ingenuity " which they display (35b). Many an incoherence
does he himself clear up by more or less convincing emendations.
Since when, then, has it been against the rules to inquire what
the citation " II Peter i. 15 " is doing in script with which
it has absolutely no meaning ? The general evidence of " intelli-
gence and design " requires the assumption that in this instance
the communicator, whether spirit or subliminal personality, had
a reason for inserting it or what he thought it to be.
If no mistakes ever occurred in scripts, the riddle would be
Jan., 1918. "*S'^. Paul" Cross-Correspondence. iir
insoluble, but mistakes are frequent, and they generally appear-
to be, and are by Mr. Piddington believed to be, auditory mis-
takes.i The citation may then be an error, and an error due
to defective audition. " Tampering with the text " is indeed
reprehensible, but by the standard of the dictionary to prove
an error and to rectify it is not to tamper. Again an innuendo
is substituted for argument.
But we must not " emend a word or phrase in a script of
A's on the strength of something to be found in a script of
B's," forsooth ! As the crew of " Pinafore " interrogated, " What t
never ?
" A must not " tamper " with a chest belonging to B,.
but if he receives a letter from B asking him to open it and
take out a certain article, he not only has a warrant to go
to the chest but warrant for a certain amount of expectation
that he will find the article in it. It is as silly to object to
tracing an error in the script of A's from a clue found in the
script of B's as to object to Leverrier's turning his telescope
to the quarter of the sky where the yet unknown Neptune lay,,
on the strength of what the mathematicians told him regarding
the significance of the attraction exercised from that quarter
upon other planets. If the script of " B's "—in this case Miss
Verrall's—indicates that something latent and undiscovered Ues in
l"Note, by the way, the assonance between 'fisher' and 'Mischa,' as-
if the former was a first mishearing of the latter " (J. G. P. in 183c). And
if " Mischa " had not been wi-itten and called attention to the fact, " fi,sher
"
would still have remained a mishearing, subject to correction from any-
sufficient indications.
"Rector . . . often represents himself as unable to hear distinctly words
spoken by the spirit for whom he is acting as amanuensis " (J. G. P in
298b. See also 88a, 194a, 230a, 364c, 373, 379d, 383c, 391b, 375a).
'
Note the two attempts before Mrs. HoUand's script got the Latin word
for death,—" Maurice, Morris, Mors "—which lead to the just suggestion
(J. G. P. in 298b) that "the automatist got an auditory impression of a
spoken word."
Also the effort to get some expression through,—" Siazies . . . Siaz .
Siacriez . . . Siaraz "—which the sitter, Mrs. Sidgwick, amended on the
spot, with no other evidence than mere general resemblance, afterwards
charging the emendation to the communicator (367, 369c).
And the series of attempts,—" Odes . . . Odesesis . . . Odesia . . . Odesu
. . . Odesie" (381). One can hardly blame Mrs. Sidgwick for suggesting at
this point, " Odyssey ? " And after all Mr. Piddington assures us, relying on
grounds which lie quite outside the context, that "the communicating
spirit ... was obviously [italics mine] trying to talk about the Odes of
Horace" (404a).
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, dec. 1917-
another script, names what that something is, and strongly hints
in just what passage to seek it, it would be foolish, it would
be unfair, not to look for that thing precisely there.
And does it not ? Miss Verrall's two brief passages placed
together by Mr. Piddington declare that something is " not right,"
not understood." What something ?
—" the name." What
name I
—" Paul," twice written (once with emphasis) and a third
time described. What Paul ?
—" a saint," therefore St. Paul.
Why St. Paul ?
—" ask Lodge !
" Somebody is talking who
appears to know about the promise made to Sir Oliver to send
the name " St. Paul." And to whom was the name to be sent ?
To Mrs. Holland in India, and in all fairness we must seek it
again in Mrs. Holland's script. But in which passage ? " The
name is not right robbing Peter to pay—Paul." Where in Mrs.
Holland's script does the name " Peter " appear ? —in the citation
" II Peter i. 15." The name " Paul " should then be there-
Surely, here are clues sufficient to send the most amateur detective
to this spot.
Note that Miss Verrall's script does not, as in some other
cases, merely ask if the name has come out elsewhere. It
positively and repeatedly asserts a defect and urges that it be
remedied. So, when the easy discovery is made that the one
passage in Peter's writings which names Paul and which likewise
fits the other intimations, differs from the citation as given by
a single figure, we need not undergo nausea at the thought that
this implies that the figure is to be corrected. Had there not been
a mistake Miss Verrall's script would have been a strangely confident
and persistent blunder, and the puzzle would be far greater than it is.
Mr. Piddington would like to have the " canons of probability
"
formally set forth. I suppose that if one remarked that all the
dictates of reason are in favour of the Copernican theory, he
would not agree until the dictates were laid down as set pro-
positions, duly numbered. And yet I am convinced that such
little hope as there may be of impressing him by these canons
lies in their being embodied in the concrete facts of the case.
I. When the script of " B's " raises the presumption of an
error in a particular passage of " A's " script, which stands in
the way of a particularly described discovery, and a slight correc-
tion of that passage leads to the discovery exactly as predicted,
it becomes probable that the correction is valid.
Jan., 1918. "St. Paul" Gross-Correspondence. 119
II. Since, in the admitted auditoxy factor of transmission,
" third " was more likely to be mistaken for " first " than any
other ordinal, the probability of the correction is augmented.^
III. When a predicted goal is reached by a correction against
the success of which the odds are 11 to 1, the correction is
probably valid and not due to chance.
IV. When the correction adopted on the grounds already stated,
and involving " robbing Peter," proves to coincide with the
•only passage in a logical division of the New Testament con-
taining more than 4500 words, and also with the passage best
•calculated in the whole New Testament to " pay Paul " a
tribute, the probability that this was the passage originally in-
tended, and not one arrived upon by an involution of chances,
is increased.
V. An emendation which meets all the conditions, and har-
monizes all the elements, of a problem, is in the highest degree
probable. We have to-day no other reason for believing that
the earth in its motion describes an ellipse, with the sun at one
of its foci ; and logicians have not complained of Kepler's method
nor of his proofs. With II Peter iii. 15 meant, chaos in the
three series of scripts is gone, and every passage is instinct with
meaning. Mrs. Piper's script promises that the name " St. Paul
"
shall come out in Mrs. Holland's. The promise was fulfilled
€xcept for a small and easy error which hardly disguises itself.
Besides, Mrs. Holland also writes two quotations from Paul, and
& passage reminiscent of him only. Her remaining sentence,
like all the others, has a significance in relation to the test, but
also (and this is more in Mr. Piddington's vein than mine) in
its word "patience" echoes exactly the meaning of the word
*'
long-suffering " found in II Peter iii. 15, which meaning is
antithetical to the verbal root referred to in Miss Verrall's first
Latin sentence, signifying " to pause, to come to an end." Miss
Verrall's script points in one direction to the giving of the " St.
Paul " test with which Lodge was associated, and in another
to a mistake or defect in relation to the name and to the spot
where it ought to be. Everywhere throughout this triple gToup
of scripts which Mr. Piddington holds up for our inspection,
" Paul," " Paul," " Paul," peers, signals and shouts.
^ The fact can be demonstrated on the telephone, unless conscious pains
are taken, especially to sound the " s."
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec. 1917-
VI. When the different probabilities combine to point in one
and the selfsame direction, there results practical certainty for
reasonable men.
The " St. Paul " correspondence is surpassed in value by very
few in the series, if by any. It possesses a number of advan-
tages : (a) The scripts involved are brief, compact, and unem-
barrassed by digressions. (6) The trains of connection are not
tortuous and wearisome, drawn through every gradation of light
and cloudiness, but are short, direct, and in full sunshine.^
(c) Reasonings involved and ambiguous, marked by " subtleties
and entanglements 1
" are not required, but only such as are simple,,
concrete and cogent. {d) There is no uncertain, hesitant or
inquiring tone in any part of the scripts. The promise to send
the name " St. Paul " is explicit, in the script of Mrs. Piper
;
the confidence evinced in " This witness is true," etc., of the
script of Mrs. Holland, is assured ; and the conviction shown
in the script of Miss Verrall, both that there was a defect in
the test relating to the name, and also that there was in posses-
sion data sufficient to locate the defect, is unmistakeable.
" I never did attach much importance to the '
St. Paul ' cross-
correspondence," remarks my friend, who, placing a just estimate
upon the shape in which he left it, could say, " A poor thing
1 " I would advise the reader who has no taste for these subtleties and
entanglements," etc., says Mr. Piddington, referring to his discussion (295b).
Note the frequent subtleties in the discussions like " has the air of
(218d), "strongly suggestive of" (303a), "a trace of . . . may just possibly
be found " (225b), " we may fairly assume " (225a), etc.
And note the reasoning displayed in a few instances. The script " Blanche
de Lys or some such name," we are told (J. G. P. in 83d), is " a reminis-
cence of a phrase, '
Blanche comme un lys,' which occurs in a poem of
Villon's." Why there should be a reminiscence of Villon does not, so far as
I have been able to discover, appear. It is quite possible that researches
continued still farther into French literature, might find "Blanche de Lys"
as a name, which is what the script pronounced it.
It would never occur to me to make the single appearance of the words
" Laus Deo " in Mrs. Piper's waking stage, and the single appearance of the
sam> words in the script of Mrs. Verrall five months before a cross-corre-
spondence, with no other evidence whatever (304-7). It would not seem
possible for several persons to be writing, even at random, and it not
occasionally happens that two hit upon the same expression. But it is quite
another thing when an intended cross-correspondence word is announced
beforehand. Then one is looking for a definite thing, and the possibilities
of chance coincidences are immeasurably diminished.
Jan., 1918. Neio Edition of " Pliantasms of the Living." 121
"but mine own." Perhaps that is why he " prefers " it without
improvements. If facts may be " altered," they may also be
ignored, " to suit a theory."
Finally, reverting to the implication that any " dissatisfaction
"
with the defective citation II Peter i. 15 " should have been
•expressed in its immediate context and not in the script of another
automatist, I beg leave to reply in the words of a writer whom
we all highly esteem—Mr. J. G. Piddington :
" Obviously the
directing intelligence may have tried to insert this link and failed
to do so . or—and this is the explanation ivhich recommends itself
to me—a gap may have purposely been left for someone not concerned
in the phenomena to fill in, so to make the case as difficult as possible
to account for by telepathy between the automatists " (277b).
It " recommends itself to me " that the quoted explanation
may be literally and precisely true in this case. Had the correc-
tion appeared in Mrs. Holland's own script, someone would cer-
tainly have conjectured in all gravity that her subliminal and
the subliminal of Mrs. Piper met somewhere in mid-air and
collaborated !
A NEW EDITION IN ONE VOLUME OF
"PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
Phantasms of the Living, by Edmund Gurney, F. W. H. Myers,
and F. Podmore, published in 1886, which embodies much of the
early work of our Society, and in particular much valuable discussion
by its earliest honorary secretary, Edmund Gurney, has long been
out of print. Since, however, its value has been but little affected
by subsequent investigation, and it still forms the basis on which
much of the present day work on telepathy, and especially on
veridical apparitions and phantasms generally, rests, it is thought,
both by the Council of the Society, and by the publishers^—Messrs.
Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co. —that a new edition is likely to
be appreciated by the public. Mrs. Sidgwick, who in some degree
co-operated in the compiling of the original work, has been asked
to undertake the preparation of this new edition, and it is hoped
that it will appear in the course of January.
The book, it will be remembered, is a study of the evidence for
telepathy furnished both by experiments and by spontaneous occur-
rences—the latter ranging from apparently transferred waking
impressions and dreams to apparitions at the time of the death, or
other crises in the life of the person seen. Incidentally there is a
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec. 1917-
good deal of discussion on the nature of sensory hallucinations,
and comparison between those which are purely subjective in
origin and those which are veridical. Had the authors still
been with us, a new edition would no doubt have been brought
up to date. New evidence might have been added, new cases
perhaps substituted for old, and the discussion might perhaps have
been in some points added to or diminished to suit the new
atmosphere which the book itself has belped to create. Changes of
this sort the Editor has not felt justified in attempting. The text
in this new edition will be substantially as the authors left it in,
the old, with the exception of a few omissions for the sake of
brevity ; and no new cases will be introduced, though in a few
additional evidence is incorporated.
At the same time editing was required, because it was felt to be
advisable to reduce the two large volumes of the original edition
to one. To effect this a great many of the Cases quoted are to
be omitted, a sufiicient number being retained to illustrate Gurney's
points. Especially the whole of the Supplement, to which in the
original edition the less well-evidenced cases were relegated, will be
left out ; but also the number of cases interspersed through the
text itself will be greatly reduced. In some respects this will tend
to make the book more readable, as the reading of reiterated cases
of the same type is apt to become wearisome, and plenty of
specimens will remain. Further diminution of bulk is to be secured
by the omission of an important " Note on Witchcraft " by Gurney,,
and a long " Note on a Suggested Mode of Psychical Interaction
"
by Myers, neither of which belong to the general course of the
work. What Myers had to say is, of course, embodied in its final
form in his own book on "Human Personality."
It is probable that many of the newer Members of the Society-
have never read Phantasms of the Living, and it is hoped that they
may be led, by its issue in a more handy form—and we may add a
less expensive one—to peruse what must be regarded as a classic of
psychical research.
CORRESPONDENCE.
On the Evidence for Survival.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
The statement of Professor Hyslop that survival has been proved
by evidence is one I never read without regret ;
because, as
it seems to me, its frequent repetition is likely to weaken the
credit of Psychical Research. To say of any belief that it is
Jan., 1918. Gorres-pondence. 12S
proved by evidence is a loose mode of expression which has
its natural sequel in loose thinking, and especially in that form
of loose thinking which consists of begging the question.
Evidence proves nothing unless it be correctly interpreted, so
that in the last resort, and in every case, the validity of the
proof depends quite as much on the soundness of the reasoning
by which the evidence is interpreted as in anything the evidence
itself contains. Every lawyer and every scientific man knows
this perfectly well. Were there no difference between " evidence
"
and the " proof from evidence " there would be no need for
counsel's arguments, nor for the judge's summing up, nor for the
deliberations of the jury. If Professor Hyslop were to announce
the discovery of a new element or force, and decline to interpret
his evidence, nobody would listen to him for a moment. The
proof of gravity is not merely the fall of the apple ; it is
the fa]] of the apple interpreted by Newton's Principia.
If therefore survival has been proved, the proof, I submit,
consists not in the evidence merely as such, but in the rea,soning-
which has convinced us that the evidence means survival and
cannot possibly mean anything else. This is overlooked by not
a few persons who are continually assuring us that " the survival
has been proved by evidence." In Psychical Research the expres-
sion is particularly unfortunate, because in this branch of enquiry
the work of interpreting the evidence is exceptionally difficult and
exposed to great risks of error. There is no walk of science in
which the dependence of proof on good reasoning about evidence, as
distinct from the evidence itself, stands out in a clearer light.
What makes reasoning, as distinct from mere evidence, so
important and so difficult in the " proofs " of survival is that
the leading witnesses, on whose testimony all subsequent evidence
depends, are the very persons whose existence is in question.
TJiey are the alleged survivors themselves. We are in this difficult
position—that before we can interpret the evidence we have to
be sure of the existence of the witnesses. None but a survivor
can give direct evidence of survival.
However unimpeachable a person I may be my evidence that
I have encountered a survivor, whether as a visible apparition,
or in a message delivered through a medium, or in any other
way, counts for nothing at all, unless I can prove that what
I have encountered is really a survivor and not hallucination,
or a trick of sub-consciousness, or any alternative supposition.
My testimony depends on his ; and if he turns out to Ise other
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, dec. 1917-
tlian he seems to be, or claims to be, the evidence is vitiated
at the fountain-head and the proof of survival, no matter how
many instances are encountered, is impossible. It is as though
the Court of the Tichborne trial had had to begin their proceed-
ings by proving that the claimant in the witness box was a
real man, and not a dream image or an empty phantasm, or
"the product of the Court's imagination. The investigators of
the claim made in that famous case had at all events the advan-
tage of being able to take the claimant for granted. But if
ive take our claimant (the alleged survivor) for granted, we are
begging the whole question at issue, and this I venture to think
is what many of us are constantly in danger of doing. For
example, nothing that " Myers " may be alleged to do from
another world is of the least value as evidence for his survival
until we are assured that it is Myers who is doing it. But this
again is the question at issue. If we assume that it is Myers
who is doing these things, there is of course no more to be said.
But we have no right to assume it, for that is precisely what
has to be proved. So long as a doubt, or a reasonable possi-
bility, remains that the alleged doings of Myers are being per-
formed by some other person or agency—the medium, the
sub-consciousness of the sitter, telepathy, or even, as Father
Vaughan suggests, the devil, we cannot claim that we have the
evidence of a survivor. And unless it be the evidence of a
survivor it is not yet evidence of survival. Obviously we are
in the greatest danger of begging the question at every step
—
treating the claimant as though he were in the witness box while
his existence is still unproved.
Now it is in order that we may avoid this danger that the
work of reasoning in Psychical Research is so exceptionally
arduous and risky. It is possible to avoid the danger, but
only by the greatest circumspection and an almost superhuman
exertion of logical thoroughness. Obviously any attempt to prove
directly from the testimony of " Myers " that it is Myers who
is bearing testimony, will leave us reasoning in a circle, and
the conclusion will be worthless. But indirectly a proof is ideally
possible. It will consist in eliminating every other person or
agency from whom or by which the alleged evidence could con-
ceivably have been given, so that in the long last Myers is left
standing as the only possible source of it. Not until we have
stopped up every hole can we claim to be in a fair way to catch
the fox. That is not easy.
Jan., 1918. Correspondence. 125
Let us suppose that a correct reading of " the sealed packet
"
had been given through a mediuni to Sir Oliver Lodge or some
other unimpeachable witness. Great would be the temptation
to say " Myers has done this ;
Myers therefore survives." But
clearly we should have no right to say anything of the kind
until by a process of very careful reasoning we had shown that
no agency, save that of Myers, could have done this thing. We
should have to eliminate fraud (that would be easy), the sub-
consciousness of medium and sitter, telepathy and—if you will
—the devil. iSome of these would be difficult. The devil, if
you happened to believe in him, would be very difficult. So
would telepathy. Under this last we should have to assure
ourselves that there were no roundabout ways in telepathy,
such, for example, that Myers writing the sealed message during
his lifetime, might have communicated it telepathically to the
sub-consciousness of half a dozen people, who again might have
passed it on telepathically to others, so that it became, so to
speak, common, property in the sub-consciousness of a whcle
group, ready to come forth when the occasion should arise. These
are the kind of possibilities which we should have to rule out
one by ore till the whole list was exhausted. I am far from
denying that they can be ruled out. But until they are
we are not in a position to say that Myers, the survivor, has
given evidence of survival. And even when that moment is come
we must not go prancing about with the statement that survival
has been proved by evidence. We must have the candour to
declare that the proof rests on our interpretation of the evidence—
and modestly ask the public to scrutinize the reasoning which
has led us to that interpretation, to the exclusion of all others.
I say we must do this modestly, because the method of reason-
ing to which we are perforce compelled is a very precarious one.
We cannot claim to have eliminated the alternative possibilities,
until we are quite sure that we know them all. Now, even in
the physical sciences, where the area of alternative explanations
is relatively circumscribed, it is not always easy to be sure that
every one of them has been reviewed. But when we come to
the human mind and its workings, we are in a region of which
we know little—far less than we commonly suppose—and the
area of possibilities before us is strangely disconcerting. When,
for example, telepathy is suggested as the cause of the phenomena,
we have to confess that we know far too little about telepathy, about
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec. 1917-
its nature and especially its range, to enable us to say precisely
what telepathy can and what it cannot account for. It is a risky
thing to claim that you have examined every possible explanation
of a given mental phenomenon !
This brings me to the last paragraph of Professor Hyslop's
letter in which he suggests that, since I believe in survival on
grounds other than those provided by Psychical Research, I
must have some secret evidence up my sleeve. Indeed I have
none. But though I have none up my sleeve I have plenty
which is accessible to everybody. The chief is my own present
existence as a thinking being and all that is covered by this
phrase. This seems to me a very suggestive piece of evidence.
Interpreting the meaning of my present existence as a thinking
being by such light of reason as I possess, I am led to believe
that my future existence—my survival of death—is extremely
probable. The reasoning which leads me to interpret this evidence
in favour of my survival is, I admit, open to grave risks of
error. But not more so than the reasoning of Professor Hyslop
from his data of Psychical Research. He and I are precisely
alike in this—that our respective beliefs in survival are based on
our interpretation of the evidence before us and have just so
much validity, no more and no less, as the soundness of our
reasoning entitles us to claim. Neither of us has the faintest
right to say that our belief is " proved by the evidence." This
kind of loose language may do for the market-place, but not
for scientific enquiry. Introduced into science, it is the prolific
parent of the very muddles upon which Professor Hyslop is so
severe when he encounters them in philosophers. There is no
muddle so vicious as that of begging the question.
L. P. Jacks.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—It might carry this discussion further if Mr. Gordon
Milburn would add to his delightfully lucid exposition of the
unlimited telepathy theory—a theory which, in spite of its very
large prior assumptions, is scientifically and philosophically coherent
—some treatment of the question that I tried to express in
my former letter. Granted the tendency, and the power, of our
unconscious selves to invent or discover things, singly and in
constructive telepathic collaboration, the problem remains of the
quality of these collaborations. A poet, drawing upon the reservoir
Jan., 1918. Correspondence. 127
of contemporary unconscious feeling which by this hypothesis
is " the spirit of the age," writes verse that has in it the fire
of prophecy. Through a communion of souls, an unconscious
unity in fellowship, he touches the inspiration of the divine.
This is a beautiful thought, and I at least feel it to be a pro-
foundly true one. But must we not suppose that the poet's
achievement depends upon the veridicity of his experience ? He
can enter into a profounder fellowship to find a truth ; can he
enter into a profounder fellowship to elicit a lie from it ?
I use the word lie, here, for something qualitatively distinct from
errors of interpretation. The poet's conscious or semi-conscious
self, in our hypothesis, can, of course—must, of course—fail
of perfect interpretation ; he may even misinterpret grotesquely.
But he is misinterpreting a truth. What, then, of the uncon-
sciously collaborating minds of psychical researchers ? Can they
—is it philosophically thinkable that they should—enter into
psychic reciprocity to construct a lie ? Fellowship, reciprocity, is
an absolute value ; is it attainable on these terms ?
The probability of misinterpretation remains ; I allowed for
that in my letter. I am not contending that what we get must
be true, but that it is likely to be an interpretation, though
a crude and faulty interpretation, of a truth. If so, what is
this truth ? That is the question upon which Mr. Milburn
might turn his searchlight. As far as I can see it is personal
survival, or something to which our present concept of personal
survival is the nearest approximation.
Dream-analysis, by the way, demonstrates that loss of reciprocity
between the fractions of our personality can, on occasion, lessen the
mind's touch with truth ; I know of no evidence or argument to show
that an access of reciprocity between mind and mind can have
this effect, unless the " reciprocity " is entered into with an
actual desire for self-deception. But this is not reciprocity ; it
is not integration, but disintegration, of mind; and as a matter
of experience it is not by this process of disintegrative association,
if I ma}'^ so call it, that any coherent evidence purports to come
through. By Miss Sinclair's hypothesis, on the other hand, the
least reliable sitters would get the most " evidential " results.
Perhaps Miss Sinclair has not yet taken into account the teleological
function of the unconscious, as studied by the more inductive
method of Jung and the Swiss School : this is a valuable corrective
of Freud's hyper-analysis. K. F. R.
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec. 1917-Jan., 1918.
REVIEW.
Telepathy, Genuine and Fraudulent, by W. W. Baggally. Pp. 94.
2s. 6d. net. (Methuen.)
This little book, which is introduced by a Prefatory Note
from Sir Oliver Lodge, contains an excellent and clearly written
account of telepathic phenomena which have come under the
writer's own notice, and forms a valuable contribution to the
literature on the subject. Mr. Baggally's exceptional experience as an
investigator is well known, and this, coupled with his natural acumen
and his skill as an amateur conjurer, entitles his testimony to implicit
credence. A reader would, I think, receive this impression from a
study of the genuine cases recorded here, which are strong and con-
vincing, and it would be strengthened by the accounts given of the
cases in which the author has detected fraud. He was unable to
discover the secret of the Zancigs' extraordinary performances.
To those who have studied telepathy it is strange that there
should still be any who doubt whether it is indeed an incon-
testable fact ;
for anyone who chooses can prove it for himself
by experiments with simple diagrams or outline sketches. I
made such experiments myself some thirty years ago, and with
completely satisfactory results ; for I often acted as the '
per-
cipient,' thus assuring myself that all deception, intentional or
unintentional, was excluded. During the experiments a curious
fact emerged—namely, that the picture received by the percipient
may represent the original multiplied or divided or both at
once. I have not the records at hand—I think the S.P.R. has
them, but I can give two instances from memory. In one case
the original was the figure 6. What I saw, in lines of light on
a black background, was two circles above two straight lines
which formed a St. Andrew's cross. In the other case the original
was the figure 3. What I saw was three sides of a scalloped
picture-frame, the points of the scallops being turned inwards.
This was clearly the 3 multiplied some 10 or 15 times. Such
cases were strikingly convincing. I need scarcely say that the
originals used in the experimeiits represented many other things
besides numerals. If anyone after such an experience is still ready
to believe that the results come about by chance, it seems to
me that he only offers another example of the extraordinary
credulity of the incredulous. For, of course, the number of
possible original diagrams or sketches is practically infinite.
M. A. Bayfield.
Nos. CCCXLII.-XLIII.—Vol. XVIII. Feb.-Mae. 1918.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
FAOB
Notice of Meeting;, 129
Account of Receipts and Expenditure for liilT, 130
Endowment Fund for Psychical Research, Account for 1917, 131
New Members and Associates, - . . 132
Annual General Meeting of Members, 132
Meetings of the Council, 133
Private Meeting, 134
Report of the Council for the year 1917, 135
On the " St. Paul " Cross-Correspondence. A Rejoinder, 140
Correspondence, 145
Review, 151
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE STEINWAY HALL,
LOWER SEYMOUR STREET, LONDON, W.
On FRIDAY, MARCH 22nd, 1918, at 4.30 p.m.
WHEN THE SECOND PART OF A PAPER BY
Miss RADCLYFFE-HALL and Mrs. TROUBRIDGE
ON
" A Series of Sittings with Mrs. Leonard
"
WILL BE READ.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates will be admitted oti signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each
Member or Associate is allowed to invite one frie?td.
« CO OOOO'^OOCJC^tDOOt^'-HO'^OOu':! O o
CO in O O O O --I O O rH 00 O O 71 OO i-H CI O T-l o 00 o
rH rH f-H ,-H ^ rH .-1 t-1 r-l rH
I- —iOOO-PC0-t^rHXTH?DO — t-HC". OOCO o I—
i
CD
r— CO O i-H C-J ^ r-! ^ 0 1 o CI
CO -+ i-HrH (M I-l CO
Ol
O CO ooo
rH CO i-O
r- o CD O c — w
o ' rH 1* O
':! r-( --H
ill
p3~
C3 X «S
^11 Is
Dh
~
•a g
Is &
<3 ..
O) CO
o
1-2
.a
-as
° 2 a
a ,
p.a
a .
3 J3 IH
"
a
•CO
oo
oo
o
o
o
>>
C3 -
o
t, s
03
1°' •
fee . .
o
CJ
rH C<5
rH P fcTS^
CO 3 3 H
tJ^ = » a 5 g
got. a6EHP5
"'^ g £ -
o Til oooo 00 OOO o
rH
rH Oi o o o o i>ooo 00 O
r-t rl i-H rH
O rHO rH CD O >J^ CO
rH rH (M rH CO CI o CO
00 iH rH
c-i"
OOO
CD CO 01 1-H 00
rH
CDO CI COO
CO
c+*
O (M -ji O
CO 00 CD
I-'
OS "a
O
w
2 oj •
-w
to s 3 c 9
ilil
= 0^
S
3 t^QO
H rH i-H
1 O o>
^ rHrH r
J a> CI c
rt< 00 <^ I-H
rH
I> CO 00
I> CO •
o
CD CO ClrH
CO C3
^ O
C3
ffl
O
H
? <l ^ cc
a;
3
CO
o
CO
S~ 3
W 3'S
m ^ C2
05 J5 "-1
a
H
m
m
<
O
ft
<
O
o
o
• 5-= >^
Q ;h W o
aJ CD i2 a
S cs a) ~
r;^ !- o c
fi^ n M °
- 0) ^
Q J H H O w O t>
OOOOOi-HOO
I—
I
00000000
OCOOOiCOOt^O
C5 O CO 10 O 05 to
(M Q<1 O p t-- 00
Ifi « C+j Crt
^ .s?
:S « S
o o
CI 'M -t^ 1-)
00 10 IC
CrtCrt^-O
Ct? CO
" 5 C -
£3 ^
OH.S-<'><oo^^'-^
10 10 O O § O ^ C"! =0
t~ (M o o iin to lO
CiJ Cti C*J Cj3 C*3 C*l
"Tt ^» "•T6 ^*
OS
o
I
o
I
O IM
J5
a
- O)
a o
S.
0 13
01
""
CO o
3 (§
(M 0 0 0
0 0 0
10 0 0 0 lO
to 0 0 CO
CI
5 §
a .
=^
c
K
3
O
s
•
t4
e=5
.5 o
a
o 5
£f4
P.
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Fkb.-Mar., 1918.
NEW MEMBEKS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
BagOt, Richard, Travellers' Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Beadon, Mrs., at ll Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Bertie, L. W. H., The Nook, 110 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Hare, A. W., M.B., 59 York Road, Birkdale, Lanes.
Holt, Miss M. D., Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
Linden, Edward F. B., 11 South Mansions, Brondesbury, London,
N.W.
McKenna, Mrs. Theodore, 24 Bryanston Square, London, W. 1.
Moore, Mrs. Harold, Tlie Burrow, Alma Road, Sidcup, Kent.
Powell, Mrs., Goodwyns Place, Dorking, Surrey.
Russell, Mrs. E. S., Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
Bond, F. Bligh, 2.5 Sydenham Hill, Bristol.
Clayton, Mrs. C. E., Holmbush Lodge, Woodmancote, Nr.
Henfield, Sussex.
Forrester, Mrs. Robert, Annfield, Stirling.
Jordan-Smith, Benjamin, Briantcroft, Grosvenor Road, Caversham,
Reading.
Librarian, The Natal Society and Central Library, Pietermaritzburg,
'. Natal, South Africa.
Morris, Mrs., 28 Bramham Gardens, South Kensington, London,
S.W. 5.
Morris, Miss D. M., 28 Bramham Gardens, South Kensington,
London, S.W. 5.
Newton, Miss F. E., 1.56 Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1.
Murphy, Gardner, U.S. Base Hospital No. 39, American Ex-
peditionary Force.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MEMBERS.
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was
held at 20 Hanover .
Square, London, W., on Thursday,
January 31st, 1918, at .3 p.m. ; Mr. J. G. Piddington in
the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally,
the Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Sir William Barrett, the
Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Mrs. H. P. Dimmock, Mr. J. R. K. Duff,
Feb.-Mah., 1918. Annual General Meeting of Members.
Mrs. Gardner, Mrs. Osmaston, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Miss
M. Radclyffe-Hall, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mrs. Troubridge,
Mr. E. Westlake (and, by proxy, Miss Alice Balfour, Captain
E. N. Bennett, Sir Lawrence Jones, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr.
T. W. Mitchell, Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey)
;
also Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Report of the Council for the year 1917 was accepted,
and is printed below. The audited account of income and
expenditure for the year 1917 was presented and taken as
read.
The Chairman announced that the six retiring Members
of the Council offered themselves for re-election. No other
nominations having been received, the following were declared
to be duly elected Members of the Council : The Right Hon.
G. W. Balfour, Captain E. N. Bennett, Dr. W. M'Dougijll,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. H. Arthur Smith, and Sir Joseph J.
Thomson.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
The 152nd Meeting of the Council was held at 20[^Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, January 31st, 1918, at
2.30 p.m. ; Me. J. G. Piddington in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the Right Hon. G. W.
Balfour, Sir William Barrett, the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr.
St. G. L. Fox Pitt, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Mrs.
Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The Report of the Council was considered for the year
1917.
The 153rd Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, January 31st, 1918, immedi-
ately after the Annual General Meeting ; Mr J. G. PiDDiNftxON
in the chair. There were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally,
the Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Sir William Barrett, the
Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, and Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick; also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton,
Secretary.
134 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-biar., 1918.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
The proceedings of the Annual General Meeting were reported.
Dr. L. P. Jacks was re-elected President of the Society for
the year 1918.
Mr. J. Ct. Piddington was re-elected Hon. Treasurer ; Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick and the Hon. Everard Feilding, Hon. Secre-
taries ; and Mr. Arthur Miall, Auditor, for the current year.
The following were co-opted as Members of the Council for
the year 1918 : the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. G. Lowes
Dickinson, Sir Lawrence Jones, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Dr. V. J.
WooUey, and Dr. M. B. Wright.
Committees were elected as follows :
, Committee of Reference and Publication : The Right Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, Sir William F. Barrett, the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, Sir William Crookes, the Hon. Everard Feilding,
Dr. W. Leaf, Sir Oliver Lodge, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Mr. J. G.
Piddington, Lord Rayleigh, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick.
Libranj Committee : The Hon. Everard Feilding, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
House and Finance Committee : Mr. W. W. Baggally, the
Hon. Everard Feilding, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sydney C.
Scott, and Mr. H. Arthur Smith.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo was elected an Hon. Member
of the Society.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected
for the year 1918.
Ten new Members and nine new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
PRIVATE MEETING FOR MEMBERS AND
ASSOCIATES.
The 58th Private Meeting of the Society for Members and
Associates only was held in the Council Chamber, at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, January 31st, 1918, at
4.30 p.m. ; the Right Hon. G. W. Balfour in the chair.
Miss Radclyffe-Hall read a paper, prepared by herself and
Mrs. Troubridge, on " A Series of Sittings with Mrs. Leonard,"
which will, it is hoped, be published later in the Proceedings.
Feb.-Mar., 1918. Report of the Council for the Year 1917. 135
EEPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR THE YEAR 1917.
Though the continuance of the war still interferes in more
ways than one with the work of our Society, there are distinct
signs that the interest in it has increased during the last
year. This is shown in the applications for membership and
in the enquiries and correspondence received at the Office.
As regards membership, new Members to the number of
49, including 1 Corresponding Member, and new Associates
to the number of 83, including 1 Honorary Associate, have
been elected during the year—in all, 132. This compares
with 80 in 1916, 41 in 1915 and 85 in 1914, and is even
a little more than the pre-war number in 1913, which was
129. Moreover, the increase in number of Members is
markedly greater in proportion than that of Associates.
There have as usual been transferences from the class
of Members to that of Associates and vice versa—6 Asso-
ciates becoming Members, and 4 Members becoming Associates.
There have also, of course, been losses from deaths, resigna-
tions, and simple lapse of subscriptions without notice. These
amount to 13 Members and 57 Associates—an aggregate of 70.
It is noteworthy that this is markedly less than in any
other of the last five years, in which the number varied
between 104 in 1913 and 137 in 1915. Of those who have
given reasons for resigning none have expressed dissatisfac-
tion with the Society's work.
The net increase during the year is 62 ; and the membership
of the Society now stands at 1147, distributed as follows
:
Members, 312 (including 38 Honorary and Corresponding
Members) ;
Associates, 835 (including 14 Honorary Associates).
A large membership is of course important and valuable,
both because it guarantees interest in our work and because
it provides funds for carrying it on. But the Society has
another object which those engaged in its administration
have always hoped extended membership would promote—
namely, the obtaining of evidence concerning the phenomena
which the Society exists to study. Among a large nmnber
of members, a certain nmnber of real workers and students
should be found, and are found, though they are fewer just
now than they might be, owing to the war, and though even
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. feb.-Mar., 1918.
before the war they were perhaps fewer than might have
been expected. But what was even more looked for was that
extended membership would bring us into touch with useful
and well-evidenced spontaneous and sporadic cases of the
various kinds of psychical phenomena with which our Journal
and Proceedings have made us all familiar. As has been
frequently said, the collection and putting on record of such
cases are very important ; not only because there is great need
of increasing the mass of evidence, especially of adding to it
contemporary cases ; but also because no two cases are quite
alike, so that they throw light on one another and help towards
the understanding of the whole subject of telepathy, its nature
and extent, the powers and subliminal working of the human
mind, and the question of its survival. Experiments are no
doubt in some respects more valuable than spontaneous cases,
because, among other reasons, we can more easily in experi-
mental cases define the conditions under which the phenomena
occur, and eliminate normal causes. But spontaneous cases
include a wider range and may reveal possibilities of which
experiments give no obvious hint, and may, and do, thus lead
to fruitful lines of speculation and investigation. Well-defined
and well- evidenced spontaneous cases are, however, rare, and
the Society depends for them largely on the goodwill and
alertness of its members in collecting and recording them.
This has often been said, but is so important that it can
hardly be said too often, especially as it seems still doubtful
how far members fully realise it. We must not be ungrateful.
There are members who take a good deal of trouble in sending
us accounts of experiences that have befallen them or of
which they have heard, and among the cases sent to us
some are of course very interesting. It is to be feared,
however, that informants are sometimes disappointed that
more use cannot be made of what they tell us. This,
unfortunately, is inevitable. Some of these experiences are in
themselves too vague to be useful, and some cannot be
brought up to the necessary evidential standard. Nevertheless,
we are very glad that they are sent to us. It is far
better that doubtful cases which prove unavailable as evidence
for supernormal phenomena should be sent, than that there
should be any risk of losing cases which, even if they
Feb. -Mab., 1918. Report of the Council for the Year 1917. 137
appear doubtful at first, may on further investigation prove
good.
It may be thought that members do send us all the
good cases they hear of, and that the reason we do not
receive more is that they rarely occur. It is quite true,
as already said, that they are rare, but there are indica-
tions that we do not receive all that our members know of.
For instance, our attention has recently been drawn to an
essay published by a valued member of the Society, in which
is described, apparently at second-hand, a curious and illuminat-
ing instance of telepathy, on which the essayist herself lays
great stress as an illustration of her views. It may no doubt
be impossible to get evidence at first-hand concerning the
case, but it seems a great pity that a complete account of
it was not sent to us when it was fresh, and thus placed
permanently on record in an accessible form.
As regards study and experiment, as we have said, the
war naturally takes from our work some of those who would
otherwise be advancing it, and we have, we believe, good
grounds to hope for accessions to the ranks of workers when
the war is over. In the meanwhile work goes on, if less
in amoimt than we should desire. The automatists who
have already rendered so much assistance, still contribute
scripts and impressions which are carefully studied. Thus
Mrs. Salter and Mrs. Wilson continue their experiments from
time to time.
Miss F. M. Stawell, who has long been an associate and
interested in our work, contributed a careful study of some
of the scripts that have been published, which was read
at one of our meetings. It was her first contribution to our
Proceedings.
Another member of the Society, Mr. Girdlestone, is engaged
in systematic experiments in telepathy of the old type
—
transference of diagrams, etc. —which seem likely to lead
to some good results.
Two members of the Society—Miss Radclyfie-Hall and
Mrs. Troubridge—new workers—have during the past year
had a long series of carefully recorded sittings with IVIrs.
Osborne Leonard with interesting results. They have prepared
a long report on these, some part of which will be read
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. fkb.-Mae., 1918.
at the meeting on January 31st, and some part, it is hoped,
at a future meeting this year.
Partly in consequence of this report, and partly because of
Sir Oliver Lodge's experiences, and of accounts received by
him, arrangements have been made with Mrs. Leonard to place
her services at the disposal of the Society for a period, and
sittings are being arranged, conducted according to rules
laid down by a Committee appointed by the Council, who
also have the duty of selecting sitters. During her engagement
by the Society Mrs. Leonard undertakes to give no sittings
except to sitters sent by the Committee. Mrs. Leonard's
mediumship resembles to a considerable extent that of Mrs.
Piper and Mrs. Thompson, and it has seemed worth while to
study it in a similar manner.
Sir William Barrett, with the consent of the Council, invited
to London his friends Mrs. Travers Smith and Mr. Lennox
Eobinson, some of whose automatic communications, by means
of an ouija board, he spoke of in the paper read by him
to the Society in November. Their visit, which took place
the week before Christmas, was unfortunately somewhat
short, and but little notice could be given. Nevertheless
several members of the Council and others were able to see
the methods used and the rapid movements of the travelling-
pointer in finding the letters wanted in a promiscuously
arranged alphabet, the operators being blindfolded in the
manner used in the experiments at Dublin. The circumstances,
however, did not admit of much experimental work.
We have to record with great regret the retirement in
October of Mr. H. Arthur Smith from the Honorary Treasurer-
ship of the Society on account of failing health. He had
held the office for thirty-one years and worked devotedly for
the Society, and the loss is therefore great. We have been
fortunate in being able to persuade Mr. Piddington to under-
take the work of Honorary Treasurer temporarily, and hope
that he will carry it on till the end of the war.
We have to record the loss by death of a member of the
Committee of Reference and Publication—Miss Jane Barlow.
She had kindly served on that Committee for many years
and always read with interest and attention the papers sub-
mitted to her.
Feb. -Mae., 1918. Report of the Council for the Year 1917. 139
Two Parts of the Proceedings have been published—Part
LXXIII. in March and Part LXXIV. in December. The
last was very considerably delayed by the difficulty in getting
printing work done, and we are still waiting for the index
and list of members which will complete Volmne XXIX.
The sales of Proceedings through the Secretary of the Society
have been unusually large—decidedly larger than in any of
the last five years. This is doubtless chiefly owing to the
buying of back numbers by new Members and Associates.
On the other hand, the sales through our agents to outsiders
have been small, probably because the bulk of Proceedings
published since December, 1915, when Vol. XXVIII. appeared,
has been less than usual.
The Librarian—Miss Newton—reports that the Library
has been fairly well used. More volumes have been taken
out for reading than usual, but on the other hand fewer
Members and Associates have read in the Library itself.
In the summer Messrs. Kegan, Paul, Trench, Trubner and
Co., the publishers of Phantasms of the Living, now long
out of print, suggested that a new edition of this classic
of Psychical Research should be issued, abridged so as to
occupy one volume only. The Council agreed, and entrusted
the preparation of the new edition to Mrs. .
Sidgwick. It is
expected to appear shortly. The Council take this opportunity
of expressing their thanks to Mrs. Sidgwick for the trouble
she has so kindly taken in the matter.
Four meetings have been held during the year at which
papers were read.
On January 31st, at a General Meeting, Dr. Constance Long
read a paper on " The Psycho-analytic use of Subliminal
Material," which it is hoped may be published in a forthcoming
number of the Proceedings.
On April 26th, at a Private Meeting, a discussion was
held on " The Development of Different Types of Evidence
for Personal Survival." It was opened by Mrs. Sidgwick vnth
a paper giving a resume of the history of the subject in the
armals of the Society, and Miss Stawell followed with a paper
which was in the main a criticism of the evidence in Mr.
Balfour's paper on the " Ear of Dionysius " case. Both
these papers have been pubUshed in Part LXXIV. of the
140 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Fkb.-Mae., 1918.
Proceedings. The discussion was continued by Sir Oliver
Lodge, the President (Dr. Jacks), and others.
On June 28th, at a General Meeting, Dr. Jacks gave his
Presidential Address, of which the subject was " The Theory
of Survival in the Light of its Context." This also has been
published in Part LXXIV. of Proceedings.
On November 22nd, at a Private Meeting, Sir William
Barrett read a paper entitled " Two Interesting Cases of
Supernormal Action and their Psychological Significance."
ON THE "ST. PAUL" CROSS-CORRESPONDENCE.
A Rejoinder to Dr. Walter F. Prince's Further Remarks.
By J. G. PiDDINGTON.
The two main points of my criticism of Dr. Prince's proposal
to read II Peter 3. 15 in place of the actual reference given in
Mrs. Holland's script {Journal for July 1917) are (a) that he
emends a reference in a script when there is nothing in the
context to show that the reference is wrong ; and (6) that he
bases his emendation not on the strength of something to be
found in Mrs. Holland's script but on the strength of something
in another automatist's script.
In the Journal for Dec. 1917 -Jan. 1918, Dr. Prince retorts
that I have frequently dealt with Mrs. Piper's script ^ in the
very way that I criticise him for dealing with Mrs. Holland's :
namely, by emending a word or phrase both when no dissatisfac-
tion with it is expressed in the context, and also on the strength of
something in another automatist's script or elsewhere [e.g. in a book).
He argues, in effect, that, if he is a kettle, I as a pot have no right
to call him black. To justify his retort he cites from a paper of
mine published in Proc, Vol. XXII., various instances where (so he
claims) I have disregarded three rules I myself formulated in the
1 What I said in the Journal for July, 1917, about the emendation of
scripts was meant to apply, not to Mrs. Piper's trance-writing and trance-
speech, but to the scripts of such automatists as Mrs. and Miss Verrall,
Mrs. Holland, Mrs. Willett, the Macs, and Mrs. King. These latter are, as
1 said, " for the most part incoherent in the strict sense of the word,"
whereas for the most part Mrs. Piper's trance-writing and voice-sittings
aro not. In the case of Mrs. Piper, accordingly, greater latitude may,
perhaps, be allowed in the matter of emendation than in the case of the
other automatists. I will not, however, take advantage of this possibility
in replying to Dr. Prince's charge of inconsistency.
Feb. -Mar., 1918. ''St. Paid" Cross-GovvesiJondence. 141
Journal for July 1917, relative to the emendation of scripts. It is
not always clear to me which particular rule is supposed to be
violated in any given instance ;
but that perhaps doesn't matter.
Anyhow I will deal with each instance in the order given by
Dr. Prince.
" Evangelical " and " Evelyn Hope." On Feb. 27, 1907, says
Dr. Prince, " '
Evangelical '
was again written. It did not connect
with anything, but what of that—since scripts are '
for the most
part . . . incoherent ' ? But Mr. Piddington was unaccountably
disturbed, and pointedly asked Myers if the word was right."
I certainly asked Myersp if the word was right, though not
for the reason assigned by Dr. Prince. On Feb. 11, 1907 (p. 320),*
it had been given as " Evangelical " ;
then on Feb. 27, 1907,
it was first given as " evangelic " and immediately afterwards
as " Evangical." I read " Evangical " out loud as " Evangelical,"
and, in order to make sure that by " Evangical " Evangelical
"
was meant, asked if
" Evangelical " were right (p. 334). Dr.
Prince's statement that I was disturbed has no foundation ;
I
was simply, as in numerous other cases, taking care to get a
doubtful reading confirmed or rejected by the control.
Again, Dr. Prince says that my only reason for transmuting
" Evangelical " into " Evelyn Hope " was that Myersp had said
he had given " Evangelical " to Mrs. Verrall, and that while
Mrs. Verrall's script contained nothing which would link on
to " Evangelical," it did contain something which would link
on to
•'
Evelyn Hope." The only thing in Mrs. Verrall's script
with which, so far as I knew at the time, Mrs. Piper's " Evelyn
Hope " would link on was the misquotation from Abt Vogler in her
script of Jan. 28, 1907: "the hope that leaves the earth for the
sky." As the script containing this misquotation opened with the
word Aster (=star), quoted twice from Browning, and emphasised
the word Hope by means of the misquotation ;
and as " Hope
Star and Browning " had already been given in the Piper trance as
a cross-correspondence with Mrs. Verrall's script, what object was
there to be gained by my suggesting that " Evangelical " had been
given in error for " Evelyn Hope " 1 Success had already been
achieved, as both I and Myersp knew. Why, then, should I seek
to get the success repeated, especially when the repetition would
be valueless ?
1 Here and elsewhere the page references are to Proc, Vol. XXII.
142 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mak., 1918.
If " Evelyn Hope " had never been written in Mrs. Piper's
script, and if on the strength of something in another auto-
matist's script I had manufactured a cross-correspondence by
altering " Evangelical " into " Evelyn Hope," then I should
have done the kind of thing that Dr. Prince has done in his
reconstruction of the " St. Paul " cross-correspondence.
Bel Sarto. In suggesting that the reason for the choice of
" Del Sarto " as a cross-correspondence was that it will serve
as an anagram of lode-star, I may have let my fancy run riot.
But far from wanting to alter " Del Sarto " into something
else, as Dr. Prince wants to alter II Peter 1. 15 into II Peter 3. 15,
it is essential to my suggestion to accept the reading of the manu-
script.
Dr. Prince claims for the " St. Paul " cross-correspondence
as reconstructed by himself that it "is surpassed in value by
very few in the series, if by any." I did no more than suggest
that " Del Sarto " may be a possible anagrammatic cross-corre-
spondence with Mrs. and Miss Verrall's anagrams on " aster
"
and " star." Dr. Prince achieves his almost unsurpassed cross-
correspondence by altering the text; my admittedly doubtful
instance of cross-correspondence requires no alteration in the text.
Maud Carten-Carter. In discussing the possibility of there
being some causal relation between the appearance in Mrs. Piper's
trance of the names Dorothy and Marion Carver (the second
name being that of an old acquaintance of Miss Verrall's) and
" Maud Carten-Carier not a relation—but an old acquaintance
Dorothy " in Mrs. Holland's script,^ I was careful to say that
the connexion is vague and the coincidence slight. And I should
not have called attention to the coincidence at all, were it not
that it forms part of a series of coincidences, the rest of which
are far less easily ascribable to chance. The coincidence between
" Marion Carver—Dorothy " (Piper) and " Maud Garten—Dorothy
"
(Holland) is, as it were, merely the trimmings of the central
cross-correspondence " Diana—Candle " " Artemis—Candle." The
central cross-correspondence holds good whether the trimmings
be allowed or not. Disallow the alteration of II Peter 1. 15
into II Peter 3. 15, and the " St. Paul " cross-correspondence
as interpreted by Dr. Prince falls to the ground.
Sasia Saisia Francis. I said (p. 135) :
" It is conceivable
"
that these words, given in Mrs. Piper's trance just before the
1 By an oversight Dr. Prince attributes " Maud Garten, etc." to Mrs. Piper.
Feb.-mae., 1918. " St. Paul " Cross-Correspondence. 143
mention of Swedenborg and St. Paul (both, be it noted, illumines)
" were an unsuccessful attempt to write the name of [another
illuniind] Francis d'Assisi." Dr. Prince says that my conjectural
emendation was not made " on any of the grounds which [I have]
formally approved." That is not the case, for not only does
the immediate context support the emendation {i.e. the mention
in the immediate context of two other world-famous visionaries) ;
but the repeated and unsuccessful attempts to write an intelli-
gible name show dissatisfaction with the refersnce as given.
Thus :
(Myers communicating) this was what brought to my mind the thought
about Sasia Saisia
(Rector communicating) too bad
Mrs. V. Print it.
Francis . ' •
_ .
S i a a No you do not U.D. + R.
Moreover, little or nothing turns on whether the emendation
is right or not. No cross-correspondence is claimed ; and the
avTos ovpavos aKVfioyv case does not stand or fall according as the
emendation be accepted or not.
Dina dos anados. The words " Dina dos avaSos a o-oi eSojKa
'
in Mrs. Verrall's script of March 13, 1907—which are nonsense
as they stand—were immediately followed by " no he does not
understand Say it again." Dissatisfaction with what was written
was, then, clearly expressed in the immediate context ;
and
emendation accordingly is permissible.
Here, again, little or nothing turns on whether the emendation
is right or not. The main evidence for the cross-correspondence
with Mrs. Piper on the subject of " Diana " rests on another
script of Mrs. Verrall's, where the name " Diana " is given and
the goddess referred to in various ways. If my emendation be
rejected, the cross-correspondence " Diana " rests on as sure
a. foundation as before.
If Dr. Prince's emendation of Mrs. Holland's reference to the
Second Epistle of Peter be rejected, the St. " Paul " cross-corre-
spondence as he interprets it collapses.
This completes what I have to say in answer to the charge
of having broken my own rules concerning emendation of scripts.
In what follows I deal with two fiirther criticisms which Dr.
Prince has thrown in as make-weights.
144 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. fkb.-Mar., 1918.-
In the decent obscurity of a footnote he invites his readers
to " note the reasoning displayed " by me " in a few instances " :
meaning thereby my faulty reasoning in two instances. The
first instance is my treating " Laus Deo " uttered in Mrs. Piper's
waking-stage as a possible cross-correspondence with " Laus Deo "
written five months earlier by Mrs. Verrall. Dr. Prince says it would
never have occurred to him to treat the coincidence as other
than accidental. Nor would it have occurred to me, except for
the reasons which I have given on pp. 305-307.
The second instance is my describing " Blanche de Lys or
some such name " in Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. 18, 1907, as
a reminiscence of " Blanche comme un lys " in a poem of Villon's.
On this Dr. Prince remarks :
" Why there should be a remini-
scence of Villon does not, so far as I have been able to discover,^
appear. It is quite possible that researches still farther into
French literature might find '
Blanche de Lys '
as a name, which
is what the script pronounced it."
In the first place " Blanche " is a name in the poem of Villon's
;
and in the second place Dr. Prince's acquaintance with my writings
is so extensive and peculiar, and his interest in them so fatherly,
that I am surprised at hie not having succeeded in discovering
why I called " Blanche de Lys " a reminiscence of " Blanche
comme un lys." For in an analysis of the script in question
published in Proc., Vol. XXIV., pp. 13-16, I quote the following
lines from the poem of Villon's (the celebrated Ballade des Dames
du Temps jadis)
:
La royiie Blanche comme ung lys
Qui chantoit a voix de sereine,
Berthe au gi'and pied, Bietris, AUys,
Harembourgps qui tint le Mayne,
Et Jehanne la bonne Lorraine
Qu' Anglois bruslferent a Rouen,
Oil sont-ilz, Vierge souveraine ?
Mais oil sent les neiges d'antan ?
Now in Mrs. Verrall's script " Blanche de Lys or some such
name " is immediately preceded by the refrain of the Ballade ;
" (Mais ou sont] les neiges d'antan ?
"
With this explanation before him I hope Dr. Prince will be
ready to cancel the bad-conduct mark he has set against my
" reasoning " in respect, at least, of this subordinate item in his.
indictment.
Feb.-BIak., 1918. Correspondence. 145
CORRESPONDENCE.
SUEGEON HADFIELD'S EXPERIMENTS.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE S.P.R.
Madam,—There is one feature in Surgeon Hadfield's experiments
;in hypnotic suggestion as reported, from the Lancet, in this Journal
for January, which appears, so far as I can see, to bear on a
much bigger issue than that which the experiments were instituted
to decide. In fact there is no bigger issue before science at the
present day. According to the mechanistic interpretation of life,
as expounded by Schafer, Loeb, and many others—a powerful
though I think now diminishing school of scientific thought—-all
living things, including man, are merely sentient automata. They
may have thoughts, sensations and the illusion of will, but these
can have no influence whatever on their acts, which are linked
together in an inevitable sequence of physical cause and effect.
No psychic factor can, it is argued, edge its way in so as to
cause the smallest deflection in the current of this mechanical
process without contravening the law of the conservation of
energy. Thus evolution would have taken precisely the course
it did, and man would have written epics, built temples and made
war and love just as at present, even thoiigh the earthly scene
had never been visited by one throb of feeling or one ray of
consciousness.
But now Surgeon Hadfield has brought to light (quite undesignedly,
as I understand) the pregnant fact that when it is suggested to an
hypnotic patient that he shall feel no pain from a burn, the burn
heals rapidly, without hyperaemia or suppuration, while an exactly
similar burn inflicted without suggestion on the same patient at the
same time runs the ordinary course. But the pain which by its
presence or absence can thus apparently deflect the current of
material force, is a purely psychic phenomenon. As a rule, the
biologist of the mechanistic school finds or thinks he finds no
difiiculty in linking-up the action of the afferent with that of the
•efferent nervous system without interposing any psychic link. Here,
however, it does not seem possible to short-circuit the process.
There can be no question of the associative action of related
nerve-impressions, for as a matter of fact there is no constant
association between pain and hyperaemia. We often have acute
pain, as in neuralgia, without any visible symptom whatever, and
we can have a marked degree of hyperaemia without pain. In
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mar., 1918.
the case before us there was no intention to inhibit hyperaemia.
Nothing was inhibited but pain.
On the face of the experiment, then, it seems that the purely
psA^chic condition of the inhibition of pain has produced the
purely physical condition of the inhibition of hyperaemia. If that
is so, then it is all up with the mechanistic theory of life.
It would be well that further experiments should be undertaken
with this aspect of Surgeon Hadfield's most interesting discovery
in view.-—Yours truly,
; T. W. ROLLESTON.
16 Prince Arthur Road.
Hampstead, N.W. 3, Januanj, 1918.
ON THE EVIDENCE FOE SUEVIVAL.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE S.P.R.
Madam,—I have read with interest Dr. Jack's criticism in the
last number of the Journal on Professor Hyslop's views. May T
in my turn criticise his ? He states that " any attempt to prove
directly from the testimony of '
Myers '
that it is Myers who is
bearing testimony, will leave us reasoning in a circle and the
conclusion will be worthless." But it seems to my humble intelli-
gence that it is Dr. Jack's arguments which leave us " reasoning
in a circle." How can it be proved that it is Myers communi-
cating except through the nature of " Myers " testimony ? Dr.
Jacks says proof is " ideally possible." But if based upon his
own reasoning, it is jmictically impossible. I agree with him that
" only when every other person or agency is eliminated, have we
a right to assume it is Myers—left standing as the only possible
source." But will Dr. Jacks explain how, according to his ideas,
he proi^oses that this can be done ? For he goes on to suggest that
even if a correct reading of Myers' sealed packet had been obtained
under conditions which eliminated fraud, we are still up against
the possibility that Myers in his lifetime telepathically com-
municated it to the sub-consciousness of half-a-dozen people who
again telepathically passed it on to others, so that it became
common property in the sub-consciousness of a whole group, ready
to come forth when occasion should arise.
Now, if this universal sort of sub-conscious telepathy is always
going on, it seems to me that all attempts to prove survival
might as well be abandoned. For I cannot see that it could ever
FEB.-MAR., 1918. Corresi:>ondence. 147"
be got over, or such a possibility eliminated from any test, any
experiment that could suggest itself to the human mind. Further,
it would be a complete overthrow to our practical conduct of life.
Dr. Jacks alludes to the Tichborne case. It will suit very well
for an illustration of my meaning.
The case for the Claimant largely broke down because he was
unable to give facts and details connected with his boyhood and
earlier life, which would certainly have been known to the real
Roger Tichborne. Now, had it been otherwise and had he success-
fully given those facts, would Dr. Jacks have discounted this
evidence, and suggested that he had obtained his knowledge
telepathically from the brain of counsel, judge, or anyone else in
or out of court, who knew the correct answers ? Yet such a
supposition would be no more far-fetched than his suggestion
regarding the sealed packet, if it had been correctly read. In
short, if this sort of reasoning is going to be admitted, it appears
to me that a great deal of the fabric on which the law of evidence
rests, goes by the board. By it, Dr. Jacks shuts the lid down on
more than the possibility of proving survival after death. He
shuts it also on the possibility of our conducting our daily lives
by the common sense rules which have hitherto guided the world.
My objections apply equally to Miss Stawell's criticism of the
evidence in the Ear of Dionysius case.
But perhaps both these able writers who have far more experi-
ence than I can lay claim to, will say what proof they have
that this " sub-conscious telepathic leakage " exists to the extent
they assume. Like Rosa Dartle, I only ask to know. I am an
honest investigator—out for the Truth.—Yours truly,
(Mrs.) Leila Boustead.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.K.
K. F. R. in his letter in the last number of the Jouriinl
seems to me to have slightly obscured the issues of his own
admission, and the point of "Miss Sinclair's hypothesis." ^ He
says :
" Granted the tendency, and the power, of our unconscious
selves to invent or discover things, singly and in constructive
telepathic collaboration, the problem remains of the quality of
these collaborations " ; and he asks whether it is philosophically
thinka.ble that the unconsciously collaborating minds of psychical
^ See Journal for May-June 1917. •
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb. -Mar., 1918.
researchers should enter into psychic reciprocity to construct
a lie ?
Then he goes on to Dream analysis. " Dream-analysis," he says,
" demonstrates that loss of reciprocity between the fractions of
our personality, can, on occasion, lessen the mind's touch with
truth " ; he knows of "no evidence or argument to show that an
access of reciprocity between mind and mind can have this effect,
unless the " reciprocity " is entered into with an actual desire for
self-deception." He says that this " is not reciprocity ; it is not
integration, but disintegration, of mind."
Is he quite sure ? Even supposing that there really is no
evidence to show that an access of reciprocity lessens the mind's
touch with truth, has he any evidence to show that it increases
it ? That its presence is even a condition predisposing to the
touch with truth ? The case for survival requires this positive
evidence which is precisely what is not forthcoming.
And why should K. F. R. suppose that " by Miss Sinclair's
hypothesis the least reliable sitters would get the most '
evidential
'
results ?
" On my hypothesis, following the analogy of dream-
analysis, you would get an elaborate drama, an intricate system
of cross-correspondences expressing the dominant desire—to prove
survival. The least reliable sitters would be expected to contribute
the vaguest and most conflicting results. Which is what actually
happens. For results that stagger the sceptic we should look to
the most scrupulous sitters who desire that survival shall be
proved, not taken for granted or merely indicated. If that desire
is to have even an illusory fulfilment the system must be more
coherent and logical than the structure of any dream. It must
look like proof.
I can assure K. F. R. that I have not been led away by
' Freud's hyper-analysis." My " hypothesis," such as it is, would
have had very little to support it if I had " not taken into
account the teleological function of the unconscious, as studied
by the more inductive method of Jung and the Swiss School."
Yet here again K. F. R. seems to me to be [mixing things. Jung's
teleology has its place^—and a great place—in the philosophic
argument for survival ; but it should not be used to bolster up
the evidence for alleged " communications." The substitution of
Bynthesis for " hyper-analysis " was part of Jung's practice as a
psychologist and psychotherapist ; its comparative success bears on
the question of survival only in the vague sense that every point
Feb. -Mar., 1918. Correspondence. 149
gained by the psyche for the psyche is a point for the survivalist
who must show that there is such a thing as a psyche to survive.
But all the time he (and Professor Jung) are dealing with the
incarnate psyche, and the higher its score the less need to drag
in the discarnate.
But 1 agree with K. F. R. that the " quality " of telepathic
collaborations is important. There are, no doubt, limits to the
collaborating powers of subconscious minds, and for all we know
the " quality " of recent cross-correspondences surpasses them.
But until we know definitely what those limits are we have no
right to talk about sm-passing, and about survival being proved.
May Sinclair.
January lUh, 1918.
DE. SCHILLER'S REVIEW OF THE DORIS FISCHER CASE.
[We have, almost as we were going to press, received from Professor
Hyslop personal explanations in relation to a portion of Dr. Schiller s
review of the Doris Fischer Case. We are unable to print the
whole, but give here extracts.']
Professor Schiller's review of the Doris Fischer Case in the
last number of the Proceedings (Vol. XXIX.) is too fair to take
up any space for controversy on points of difference which are
not great enough to affect the main issue, but I ought perhaps
to mention a few misunderstandings of my position for which
he may not be to blame. I had to abbreviate discussion more
than the subject demanded in a volume already too long to appeal
to readers, and perhaps I allowed too much for ideas and positions
stated in previous publications. However that may be I seem not
to have made myself clear on some points. In one passage
Professor Schiller says :
" Dr. Hyslop not unnaturally prefers to believe in his medium's
'
controls,' but he hardly appears to recognize what a monstrous
tale they have induced him to tell. He asks us to believe that
a titanic struggle between the powers of good and evil was going
on for years, over, and in, the soul of '
Doris Fischer.'
It is hardly correct to say that I " prefer to believe in the
medium's controls " to believing Sleeping Margaret's claims. I
do not believe what any control says. To me the statements of
controls must always be " proved " in some way. . . . Unconscious
distortion by the medium and the control may make any state-
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, feb.-bur., 1918.
ment so dubious by itself that its credibility must be determined
by its relation to the whole of the statements made by controls.
It was the manner in which the statements of the controls hung
together that made it necessary to reckon with them in the
formation of an hypothesis, not in accepting them as facts without
question. . . .
Nor do I ask any one to " believe that a titanic struggle
between the powers of good and evil was going on for years over,
and in, the soul of Doris Fischer." That is a superficial view of
the facts. I neither believed nor disbelieved in such a view.
I had to state the facts as they came, and indicated the doubts
about such an interpretation. . . .
I do not think there is any evidence in the record that the
" distinguished persons " in control are under any delusion about
the " struggle being still on." That is the superficial appearance.
But as the subconscious of Mrs. Chenoweth has to interpret
symbols, and as memories to discarnate observers may not alwaj^^s
be distinguished from present mental states, the time element
in the transmission may be an inference of the subconscious. . . .
I may add that " Imperator and Co.", on any theory of them,
know all about the war and its character, and have alluded to
it in vigorous enough terms. ... '
Now just a word as to what I mean by " spirit " . . . to
prevent misunderstanding on the part of readers in general. . . .
My tolerance for the spiritistic theory is based upon our absolute
ignorance as to what a spirit is or would do. They not only
have to prove their existence to me, but also what they can do.
I have no other conception of a spirit to start with than that
it is a stream of consciousness with its memories of the earthly
existence. This must have a subject, of course, but what that
is I neither know nor care in the first stages of my investigation.
I even accept this definition of it only in deference to the condi-
tion of proving its existence. A soul might lose its memory
in toto, but I could never prove its existence if it did. So I
define it in the only terms which make it possible to prove its
existence. . . .
I take no such view of spirits and their work as is usually
supposed, especially by the Spiritualists. I have no other con-
ception of them than that fragmentary thing indicated by the
facts. .... '
James H. Hyslop.
Feb.-Mak., 1918. Review. 151
Immortality. An Essay in Discovery coordinating Scientific, Psychical,
and Biblical Research ;
by B. H. Streeter, A. Glutton-Brock,
C. W. Emmet, J. A. Hadfield, and the author of Pro Christo
et Ecclesia. Macmillan & Co., 1917.
This interesting book attempts in a series of essays, independent
but inter-connected, to formulate what can at present be known
or reasonably surmised about survival and a future life. It i<^
addressed to the general reader, and assumes no expert knowledge
whether in Biblical criticism, or psychical research, or psychology,
or biology, or any other subject on which it touches. As was
therefore almost inevitable, its comprehensive survey is likely to
appear to the expert somewhat slight and superficial. The book
is in the main theological, but subjects with which our Society
is concerned are treated of in two of the essays ; and it is
interesting to note that at least three of the writers appear
to regard telepathy as an established fact which cannot be ignored
in considering the nature of the human mind. This attitude
towards telepathy is certainly on the increase and must be regarded
as one of the results of our Society's labours.
The two essays which directly concern us as members of the
S.P.R. are No. II., entitled " The Mind and the Brain," by
J. A. Hadfield, M.A., M.B., surgeon in the Royal Navy,i and
No. VII., entitled " The Good and Evil of Spiritualism," by
the author of Pro Christo et Ecclesia (Miss L. Dougall). The first
of these, in the words of its synopsis, maintains that though " the
mind is always found associated with a brain " it " shows an
increasing tendency to become independent " and " the tendency
of the mind towards independence and autonomy suggests the
possibility of its becoming entirely liberated from the body,
and continuing to exist in a disembodied state." This thesis is
supported by arguments drawn from the influence of the mind
on the brain and nervous system, hypnotism, the power of the
mind to heal bodily disease by mental suggestion, telepathy,
and the biological development of the mind. The author's
experience as a medical man enables him to speak with authority
on mental cures and to give some interesting examples.
Miss Dougall, in Essay VII., one of three for which she is
1 Some very interesting experiments by Mr. Haddeld, in the raising of
blisters by suggestion, described in the Lancet, were referred to in the last
number of the Journal, and a letter concerning them appears in our corre-
spondence in the present number.
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Feb.-Mar., i918.
*
responsible in the book, decides against the hypothesis that
those who have passed from earth do actually transmit to us
words and images, but believes that psychical investigations
not only farnish proof of telepathy, but witness to communion,
as distinguished from communication, with discarnate spirits.
To discuss fully her arguments would occupy too much space,
but it may be said briefly that she thinks the very wide limits
that must be allowed to telepathy, combined probably with
independent clairvoyance, invalidate any evidence yet put forward
for communication from the dead ;
and, further, that the trivial
and even flippant nature of some messages, and the absence
of messages of positive utility to the recipients make it unlikely
that what purport to be definite communications are genuine.
" But in spite of this " she thinks (p. 286), " we may take it
that the effort of spiritualists to interpret, the constant recurrence
of this effort, the insistence of the human soul on this aspect
of life, does indeed point to reality
—
i.e. to the existence of a
real touch between the visible and invisible worlds." ^
1 Miss Dougall is a reader of our Proceedings, but probably her reading
does not extend so far back as the Report on the Census of Hallucinations
in Vol. X. Had it done so, she would doubtless have written the paiagraph
on " ghosts " (p. 278) somewhat differently. For, as a matter of fact,
unrecognised apparitions, not to speak of non-veridical apparations of living
persons, appear to be commoner than apparitions of the dead. Most of
us probably agree with her that apparitions, whether of the living or the
dead, and whether viridical or not, are sensory hallucinations.
Nos. CCCXLIV.-XLV.—Vol. XVIII. April-May, 1918.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
New Members and Associates, 153
Meeting of the Council, 154
General Meeting, 151
The Folkestone Poltergeist, 165
Review, 183
Sittings with Mrs. Leonard, 184
NEW MEMBEKS AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Batty, Mrs. V. Roy, 40 Harley House, Eegent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
Devenish, Mrs., The Hyde, Bridport, Dorset.
Dewar, Lady, 8 Drumsheugh Gardens, Edinburgh.
HoUick, Captain A. J., 9 Eaton Gardens, Hove, Sussex.
Mathews, Henry N., Aid wick House, Bognor.
Telling, W. H. Maxwell, M.D., F.R.C.P., 29 Park Square,
Leeds.
Wilkins, Rev. H. J., D.D., Redland Green, Bristol.
AsHCROFT, Mrs., Ladies' Athenaeum Club, 32 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
Banner, Mrs., Bishop's Court, Sevenoaks, Kent.
Brown, Charles, M.B., Inglewood, Pathhead, Kirkcaldy.
Davison, Miss Rachel, Milverton, Wilmslow Eoad, Alderley Edge,
Manchester.
Hamilton, Mrs. C. M., Holdenville, Okla, U.S.A.
Harris, Miss Agnes G., 8 Cambridge Place, Falmouth.
Heller, Rabbi James G., Royal Apartments, 1208 N. Broad Street,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Hesketh, Thomas, 42 Castle Hill Avenue, Folkestone.
Hewitt, Mrs. Hughes, 2 Lower Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1.
Home, Walter, CLE., 34 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
Home, Miss Mary M., 34 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
Humphreys, E. Noel, Caerycaee, Hoole, Chester.
Librarian, Amsterdam Free Library, Amsterdam, New York, U.S.A.
Librarian, Imperial Library, Calcutta, India.
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April-May, 1918.
Marriott, Mrs., lid Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W. 1.
Martin, T. B., Woodlands, Snaresbrook, London, E. 18.
Palmer, Lady, 10 Grosvenor Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Phillips, G. A. Woodroffe, 76 Courtfield Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Turton, R. W., 38 Primrose Mansions, Battersea Park, London,
S.W. 11.
Vanderspar, Mrs., Ardmore, Marryat Road, Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W. 19.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 154th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, March 22nd, 1918, at 3.15
p.m.; the Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour in the chair. There were
also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, the
Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Captain E. N. Bennett, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. St. G. Lane Fox Pitt,
Mr. Sydney C. Scott, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick: also Mrs. Salter,
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Seven new Members and twenty new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Montlily Accounts for January-February were presented
and taken as read.
It was resolved, in response to an appeal through our
printers from the National Committee, formed by request of
the Ministry of Munitions, for release of Printers' Metals, to
sell to the Government the greater part of the stereotype
plates of back Numbers of the Proceedings so as to save
overseas transport of metal, the metal of which they are made
being in demand.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 149th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Steinway Hall, London, W., on Friday, March 22nd, 1918,
at 4.30 p.m.; Sir Oliver Lodge in the chair.
Miss Radclyffe-Hall read the second part of a paper,
prepared by herself and Mrs. Troubridge, on " A Series of
Sittings with Mrs. Leonard," which will, it is hoped, he published
later in the Proceedings.
April-Mat, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 155
THE FOLKESTONE POLTERGEIST.
By Sir W. F. Barrett and Mr. Thos. Hesketh.
Introduction by Sir W. F. Barrett.
On November 21st, 1917, Mr. Thos. Hesketh, M.I.E.E., the
chief engineer of the Folkestone Electricity Works, called
upon me and gave me an account of some remarkable and
inexplicable disturbances which had been, and were then,
taking place in a dugout now being excavated in the garden
of Councillor Jacques, a resident at Cheriton, near Folkestone.
Mr. Hesketh informed me that the builder of the dugout
had come to him for an explanation of the extraordinary
movement of stones and other objects in the dugout when
no person was near them. The next day Mr. Hesketh went
to the place, and as he describes in the introduction to the
evidence of the different witnesses, he himself saw in the
late afternoon the movement of some rocks which seemed
to be inexplicable. He therefore came to London the follow-
ing day, hoping to get some one to investigate the matter.
As Mr. Hesketh's account agreed with those curious
phenomena called poltergeist disturbances, which are both
sporadic and evanescent, I agreed to go down at once.
Accordingly the next morning, Wednesday, November 22nd,
I went down to Folkestone and Mr. Hesketh met me at
Shorncliffe, the nearest point to the dugout. We went to-
gether to the place, accompanied by his secretary, who took
down in shorthand the evidence of the different witnesses.
The dugout is in a shrubbery on one side of the carriage
drive leading to Councillor Jacques beautiful old manor house ;
it^ is nearly opposite the house and on the far side of the
drive. The plan and section of the dugout are given further
on ; there is an entrance on one side and an exit then being
made on the other side ; the depth and further details are
given in the diagrams.
After hearing the evidence of some of the witnesses, I
entered the dugout and sat below with a couple of lighted
candles about an hour. Mr. Hesketh and his secretary were
outside and saw that no one came near the entrance or exit.
I asked the builder Mr. Rolfe to go on with his work, his
156 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April-May, 1918.
boy assisting him ; this he did and was delighted to find
he could continue his work unmolested during the time I
was below. Nothing whatever happened whilst I was there,
beyond the strenuous bricklaying work of Mr. Rolfe and his
assistant. This was disappointing but not surprising, as the
erratic natuie of these disturbances is their characteristic
feature, and naturally leads a hasty observer to attribute
them to some mischievous hmnan agency.
Suspicion of trickery naturally centred round the lad Pen-
fold, who assisted the builder, and on this point I made
careful enquiries, for, as Mr. Hesketh points out, on more
than one occasion, he did undoubtedly throw handfuls of
sand. I am however satisfied that the witness Stephens,
—
who attributes all the disturbances to the pranks of this
lad,—is only giving expression to the hasty and ill informed
but natural opinion that some human agency must have been
the caiise. Mr. Hesketh's careful examination of this point
is of more value than the baseless rumours which always
crop up in such cases.
On the other hand, if the cause be due, as suggested in
the report made by Mr. Cunningham Craig, given on p. 179,
to the escape of natural gas from below the surface of the
excavated ground, my imprisonment in the dugout would
probably have enabled me to detect the issuing gas. But
there was no trace of gas or vapour, and the lighted candles
showed not the slightest evidence of any methane or other
inflammable gas, although a fresh portion of the sandstone
rock had recently been removed, and one of the candles
was adjacent to the uncovered face of the rocks ; nor was
there the least smell of any gas. Moreover, if the different
witnesses are to be believed, and there is no reason to doubt
their word, no efflux of gas, however violent, could have
produced the movement of heavy rocks such as they describe ;
or the flinging of stones or the hovering of a brick over
the head of the builder ; or the forcible ejection of a big
oak plank from the dugout, etc. This plank I could only
lift with some difficulty and it would need a giant's strength
to fling it, as Mr. Rolfe describes, from the bottom of the
dugout 15 feet up through the exit and lodge it in the branch
of a big shrub opposite.
April-May, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 157
The evidence given independently by the different witnesses
is familiar to those acquainted with the accounts of polter-
geist phenomena and is of the usual erratic, purposeless, and
transitory nature. The disturbances generally centre round
some living person, who appears to act as the medium, but
they are not confined to his person when once they have
started, though they are limited to the special locahty where
they originated.
'
Here I would ask those who are unacquainted with this
subject to read the description I have given of " Poltergeists
Old and New," in a paper read before the S.P.R. on January
31st, 1911, which is printed in the Proceedings of the S.P.R.
,
Vol. XXV.. p. 377, et seq. The word poltergeist has no exact
English equivalent, though usually translated Hobgoblin ;
a polterer is a boisterous fellow, and a poltergeist a boisterous
ghost. The phenomena can be traced back to a remote
period and occur in all parts of the world. The most
notable historical case is the " Drummer or Demon of Ted-
worth," in 1661, which, with the numerous sworn depositions
of the witnesses, is fully described in Rev. J. Glanvil's
Saducismus Triumphatus, published a few years later. G-lanvil
was one of the earliest Fellows of the Royal Society, and
Mr. Lecky describes him as "a man of incomparable ability,"
and that " it would be difiicult to find a work displaying
less of credulity and superstition than this treatise." This
refers to Glanvil's Vanity of Dogmatizing, a book I would
commend to all those who think their own dogmatic asser-
tions, and ignorant denials, are of more value than any
evidence of trustworthy witnesses concerning phenomena out-
side the usual experience of mankind.
It is only necessary to point out that all progress in
scientific research would be arrested if we declined to admit
or investigate phenomena,—-such for example as the properties
of radium, —-which were whoUy foreign to our recognised
knowledge at the time. It is obvious that all known causes
must first be eliminated, before we can admit the existence
of some unknown cause. Hence the interpretation of the
evidence is a matter for individual judgment, the value of
which depends on the range of knowledge and freedom from
prejudice and prepossession, possessed by each person. We
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apkil-Mat, 1918.
must however beware, as Dr. Schiller has said, of " taking
the evidence in bits, and rejecting it item by item, . . . for as
all the facts come singly, anyone who dismisses them one
by one is destroying the conditions under which the con-
viction of new truth could ever arise in the mind." Yet
this mode of arresting knowledge is the usual course practised
by those why deny the possibility of any inexplicable physical
phenomena, such as are shown in poltergeist phenomena.
Explanatory Statement by Mr. Thos. Hesketh, M.I.E.E.
My introduction to this experience took place on Sunday, 18th
November, 1917, when I received a visit from a Mr. Rolfe, who
explained he had called on me to see if I could give any
electrical or other satisfactory reason for some remarkable occur-
rences which were taking place at a piece of work he was carrying
out at Cheriton.
He described briefly that he was a builder and had been com-
missioned by Councillor Jacques to sink a dugout in his grounds
at Enbrook Manor, with a view to affording shelter from enemy
air attacks ; that whilst doing this he had, substantially from
the beginning of such work, been subjected by some unseen
agency or force to a practically continuous series of interruptions.
These interruptions took the form of objects, such as sand,
bricks and rocks, being thrown at him with varying degrees
of violence from a gentle rubbing contact to impacts of such
velocity as to inflict great pain ; on many occasions so violent
had been the blows he had had that his flesh was bruised and
cut, with actual loss of blood.
In addition this interfering force had persistently extinguished
his candles and, in short, become such a general nuisance that
it was only with the greatest difficulty he could continue his
work.
" Can you," asked Mr. Rolfe, " explain the cause of this ?
Am I magnetised, or are there leakages of electricity in this
part enough to account for it ?
"
During the course of this exposition, which was much more
voluminous and detailed than the general indication I have
given, I noticed a not unnatural hesitation in the recital, for,
as I afterwards learnt, Mr. Rolfe was by no means an ignorant
April-Mat, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 159
man, and was conscious that the questions he put to me were
already from every " common sense " point of view answered
:
he could see that I doubted the reality of his experiences, and,
as a fact, I was under an initial impression that he was suffering
from nerve shock, and that the simplest and most satisfactory
explanation of the case was that nerve stress due to the war
had built, out of the realms of fancy, upon trifling every day
happenings, this elaborate structure.
Such a prima-facie view was the more excusable, as one of
my own workmen had, only a few weeks before, been in a
local attack by enemy aircraft, and, after a week's absence to
recover from the shock, had assured me that he would have
been back before save that a large " Steam Roller had been
on his chest and that none of his fellow workmen would help
him to lift it off."
The similarity between Mr. Rolfe the builder's tale and other
experiences I had heard of, and read of, and which had an
occult basis, was however too evident to be lightly dismissed,
and it was agreed I would call the following morning, and see
if a satisfactory theory could be fitted to the case. The next
morning therefore I visited the site at about 11, and was met
by Mr. Rolfe, who showed me round.
The Manor House itself is of great age ; it is referred to in
old documents as being in existence about the year 1300, though
since this date several additions and remodellings have obviously
taken place; still there remains sufl&cient of the historic structure
(such as the old oak panelling and main stone arches) to add
an aesthetic value to what is undoubtedly a charming old style
dwelling.
The dugout is being built below ground outside the house
and some 25 yards away. Advantage had been taken of the fact
that the ground level of the carriage drive is some feet lower
than that of the main garden, where are the green-houses, to
make the entrance steps strike downwards from the lower level,
and by excavating the dugout proper under the raised garden
to so gain an additional thickness of roof. A rough plan and
section of the structure will be found on the next page.
The work at the time of this first visit was partly completed
and had been in progress some weeks. The entrance steps were
finished in red bricks on edge, and the 4^ 'inch wall of the dug-
out proper had been nearly completed. The bricklayer (Rolfe)
160 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April-Mat, 1918.
was working at the end nearest the exit, that end being newly
excavated from the natural soil, which had, so far as my examin-
ation would show, not previously been touched by the hand
of man. A gap had been left for a recess as shown.
r
/?baJ/! earth sfeps
tmergency £^/t
A.-
£nfrancs steps dom/o DugOut
Plan of Dug Out. Sca/e '-t'"inch- /foot.
Sect/on A B. Sca/e /i"'/nch = /foot.
In corroboration of his tale of the day before I found the
recess was boarded up by a rough wooden shutter, and where
the shutter did not properly fit the opening, bags of straw had
been jammed. This was a precaution taken by the builder to
prevent the loose rocks from the recess playing further pranks
at the builder's expense. Similarly a strong canvas curtain
April-Mat, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. KJl
was suspended in front of that end of the dugout where the
rough earth face had not yet been bricked in. In addition,
rough doors had been fixed at the entrance and exit : in short,
the mise en scene supported his previous recital that he regarded
himself as being literally in a state of siege. The building up
of his surroundings, to my mind, would also have added to
any hallucinations he was subjecting himself to. and this I was
careful to keep in mind.
Mr. Rolfe reported that so far that morning things had been
quiet; only a few stones thrown at the protecting boards, and
at my suggestion he resumed his work with an injunction from
me to forget as far as possible that I was there. I then took
up my position inside the dugout, and, seated on a box, awaited
further enlightenment. -
The lad (Penfold) who was and had been working ^vith him
had been caught in the act of throwing a handful of sand on
a previous occasion, and had admitted having done so on two
other days when the genuine evidences were not forthcoming,
so it is not to be wondered at that I selected such a point
of %'iew that Master Penfold should not be able to assist illicitly
in the demonstration.
Up to 12.30, the only evidences obtained Avere of a very
questionable nature, and took the shape of two stones thrown
rather lightly upon the outside of the wooden shutter protecting
the exit ; their effect on my mind, supported by the fact that
Rolfe exclaimed, " They're beginning," was to intensify the
view that excessive nerve stimulation was the root of the whole
trouble, and I left the site at about 12. .30, promising to return
about 3.30 that afternoon.
On my second appearance, at the time promised, I found
Rolfe in a very excited state, satisfaction and regret struggling
for mastery. Only half an hour before I arrived the manifesta-
tions had been great—in fact the unknown had made up for
loss of time by hurling some ten or twelve large rocks down
the entrance stairs : there were the stones in evidence.
As a matter of fact they did support the statement, for in
their violence they had considerably damaged the brickwork,
and I could hardly imagine the boy, and cei-tainly not Rolfe,
having so little regard for the work they had just finished as
to negligently damage it in an effort to produce evidence, for
it seemed to me they would have placed or thrown the rocks
A 2
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apkil-May.-iois.
more carefully. So again I took up my position inside while
Rolfe and the lad Penfold resumed their work.
Nothing whatever abnormal occurred, and again I was led
to believe that my more stable mind was having a controlling
effect on an overstrained one.
At about 4.15 the bricklaying came to an end for the time
being, and it was necessary for the two workers to go above to
saw a railway sleejjer in two. Rolfe opined that it would be
unlikely anything further would happen that day, and asked
if I would care to remain alone, or end my watching for the
time being.
As I exjjressed a desire to remain, and as dark was falling,
a third candle was lighted and the boy and Rolfe left the dug-
out by the entrance stairs. I noticed, as had been explained
to me the previous day, that they did not spend longer in
getting up the steps than was necessary ; the lad assisting his
feet by his hands and going up on all fours, and Rolfe Avas
following about a yard behind.
I was standing at the bottom of the steps inside the return,
from which I could not see the boy, but as Rolfe mounted
the first step a piece of rock about 3| inches across its largest
diameter struck him violently on the left hand and fell on the
ground close to me. Rolfe stopped and returned to show me
the bruise, and I picked up the stone. The boy meanwhile had
gone up to the top and was presumably some distance away,
for though I called him he did not reply. I examined the
damaged hand and saw the blood come through the bruised skin
and the drops fall to the groiind. Rolfe assured me this was
a mere nothing, and was glad it had occurred.
He was on the point of resuming his ascent when three large
rocks (of about 12 to 15 inches largest diameter) were hurled
in rapid succession against the bottom of the wall at the foot
of the steps.
I immediately rushed up to the top in the hope of catching
the lad in the guilt}' act, for I had noticed that the rocks were
thrown cleanly against the bottom wall and had not touched
the sides or steps on their way, but no one was visible, nor
was there any sound of retreating footsteps. In response to my
call for Penfold, his voice was heard from a building some distance
away, and he came forward to see what was the matter, apparently
quite unconscious of the three rocks having been thrown.
Apiul-May, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 163
In reply to my questions he stated that he felt the first stone
(which struck Rolfe's hand) pass over his back, and though I
at first was under the impression that he had flicked it oiJ the
steps, as he preceded Rolfe up the stairs, I felt bound to place
a certain degree of credence in his tale : a reconstruction of the
positions supported his statement rather than my initial view.
Nothing further occurred that evening, and as I was driven
to the conclusion that there might be, after all, some truth
in the tale told me, and that possibly some supernormal force
was evidencing itself, I considered I should not be doing my
duty to science if I failed to bring the case before those better
qualified than I to elucidate it.
On the following day I therefore went to London and among
others saw Sir William Barrett, who agreed to visit the dugout
on the next day, Wednesday. Sir William came down and we
together cross-examined the witnesses and got some of the state-
ments which I incorporate with this. To my own experience
I attach little importance as evidence. It undoubtedly could
have been the act of trickery, but taking all the facts into
account I do not think that it was.
It is not to be wondered at that the tale of the " Happen-
ings " quickly got into the papers. Many w^ere the attempts
to explain the mystery, and the one most readily received, and
which appeared to give the greatest satisfaction was that the
whole thing was bunkum." Others solved it to their entire
satisfaction as being the work of German spies, who were pre-
sumably burrowing imder England with a view of blowing it
out of the water.
Mining engineers from the local coal-fields advanced the theory
of gas (as does Mr. Cunningham Craig) and strata pressures,
but adiuitted they could see no reason for a suction drawing
individual bricks downwards, nor why a heavy crowbar should
be blown out of the dugout in preference to more bulky and
less heavy objects which were there at the time.
The lad Penfold was thought to be the culprit :
" Get rid
of the boy and all your spooks will vanish." In fact, the local
newspaper published an explanation based on a statement made
by a near-by military tailor which warranted investigation ;
so,
accompanied by my stenographer, I called on him. •
Mr. Stephens was very willing to give his statement, and
did so in a highly dramatic and indeed terrifying manner. It
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Rei^earch. April-May, 191S.
is puUislied along with the others. Though I am satisfied,
from the manner of his recounting it, that he succeeded in
absolutely intimidating the hoy, there is no doubt that the
lad did throw the handful of sand, as stated, for he has admitted
the same to me. Stephens had so obviously set out to prove
him the culprit and catch him in the act, that the lad could
not refrain from accepting the challenge thrown him and attempt-
ing to hold his own ; he was annoyed at the attitude of this
doubting outsider and would pit his wits against him and " get
a bit of his own back." It is interesting in view of Stephens'
satisfaction, to note that even he has to admit there is " some-
thing funny " about the place, and that sand thrown does not
behave as it ought to.
Unfortunately pressure of business, and an indisposition that
has kept me indoors, has prevented my devoting more time to
the case than sufficed to keep in touch with the witnesses and
to collect their statements.
The following accounts of what they witnessed, by Mr.
Jacques, Mr. Rolfe, F. Penfold, Miss Thomas, Mr. Cummins
and Mr. Stephens, were taken down from their lips in short-
hand under Mr. Hesketh's superintendence, for the most part
ia November, 1917, and were signed as correct early in March,
1918, except that of Mr. Cummins, w^liicli was signed on
December 4th, 1917. . . . .
Statement of Mr. Jacques, the owner of Enbrook Manor
House, Cheriton, Folkestone.
Mr. Rolfe, the builder of a dugout in my garden, had com-
plained to me almost daily that he was troubled with sand
and stones hitting him whilst at work. I attached little im-
portance to this, as I thought it miglit be due to some natural
cause, such as the air acting on the newly exposed stone. On
the 2nd November (4 weeks yesterday) I went to lunch about
1 p.m. I did not call at my house, but went straight down
into the dugout to inspect what the builder had been doing
in the previous two or three days. There was no one present,
as both Rolfe and his assistant were at dinner. I am quite
positive on this point that no person was in the dugout at the
same time as myself, above or below ground. I remained there
some 10 to 12 minutes inspecting the work and then came away.
Apkil-May, 1918. Tlie Folkestone Poltergeist. 165
I closed the door at the bottom of the steps, and before taking
my hand from the latch a stone came violently into contact
with the inside of the door, and immediately afterwards three
others in quick succession. I was somewhat startled, and did not
move for a few seconds. I then cautiously proceeded to push
the door open. Immediately another stone struck the door
violently, so that I again closed it. In quick succession from
seven to ten stones struck the wall adjacent to the door, and
also the door itself, and after waiting probably half a minute
to a minute, one single stone hit the door. I waited probably
a minute and then cautiously pushed the door open and found
the stones I had heard, deposited immediately behind the door.
As I pushed the door open the stones had to be pushed along
the ground at the back of the door. I went into the dugout
again and satisfied myself that no person was near.
The stones I found varied in size from that of an orange
to double that size. I then went to my house and on entering
was informed by the housekeeper that Eolfe on leaving to go
to his dinner had called and left the message that I had perhaps
better not go into the dugout, as stones were flying about. This
message of course I did not receive until after the occurrence
above described.
[To this statement is appended :]
The accompanying is a correct report on the statement made
by me on the 1st December, 1917. (Signed) R. P. Jacques.
Statement of Frebebick Wm. Eolfe, of 27 Quested Eoad,
Chsriton, Folkestone.
The trouble started when the work began (about seven weeks
ago). First of all little spurts of sand coming from nowhere
in particular would put the candle out, etc. A small cardboard
box with an aperture I made, but whichever way I stood it
the sand got in through the hole and put out the candle. The
following week stones began to fly about and I was repeatedly
hit (particularly on the head). The boy was often standing
quite close to me but was never hit. They invariably came
at the back. I have repeatedly examined the face of the ex-
cavations but could not find where the stones came from. I
have had bruises all over, and several times my head has been
cut and bleeding. Wlien we started to form the recess in the
166 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apeil-May, 1918.
south side a terrific volume of stones from this recess started
and continued for a day and a half. To save ourselves I made
a big door and blocked the opening completely up, and to secure
the door there I laid a heap of stones against the bottom, and
put struts against the top. That afternoon after we had laid
the stones there I suddenly felt one just touch my leg, and on
looking down saw it was one of the stones which I had laid
against the door in the morning. It weighed about 10 to
12 lbs. That was immediately followed by three or four which
simply touched my leg gently and fell down at my feet. Shortly
after came a volley of stones of all sizes which struck against
a curtain I had suspended to protect myself, and as some came
over this curtain and knocked it down, the boy and I hurried
out through the exit hole. The boy ran to the other end and
watched from there.
When we looked round the dugout after the volley had stojjped,
I found that the whole of the stones I had placed at the foot
of the door had been moved and were lying against the wall at
the eastern end (some 8 feet away).
Next day as I was standing in the dugout the bricks on the
floor began to rise and pitch against the wall at which I was
at work, again driving me away from it. I had to leave the
work inside the dugout on that day as the discharge of stones
was too disconcerting. This was in the afternoon about 3 o'clock.
I started to work in the exit hole, and a large stone fell
down just missing my head. I accused the boy of dropping
this, but he stated he had done nothing. A few minutes after
he shouted "Look out," and as I sprang inside the dug-out, down
came a large rock that I could only lift with my two hands.
He told me he actually saw this rock try to lift from the ground
an inch or two, drop back again, and then rise up and come
over into the hole. The boy is not frightened, but seems amused
with the happenings so long as he is not close beside me.
On Monday 19th I began work again, and whilst facing towards
the exit hole near where the boy was standing, a stone struck
me on the right side of my ear, which was the side away from
the boy and the hole. It made the ear bleed and caused a large
bruise. I have several times had to go to the house to bathe
my head when stones have cut it, and once had to go to the
chemist's owing to the puffs of sand that had struck my
eyes.
APBiLrMAY, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 167
On Saturday about 4, directly the boy came down we heard
a terrific crash and something sprang up and hit the ceiling
and fell just opposite our feet. On examining it we found a
stone weighing about 15 lbs. We ran up top and no one was
there. On Tuesday afternoon I was standing at the top of
the exit hole hauling up stones from below and the boy was
at the bottom loading up the pail. A piece of oak skirting
suddenly came up out of the hole, and a few minutes after
a long oak beam came up, and on hearing the boy shout I was
just in time to see it stick into the shrub opposite. This beam
was too heavy for the boy to throw up in the instant my
back was turned. Immediately afterwards the ladder which
was lying up the exit hole was lifted up a bit and turned over
on its side.
The dugout is to be used after the war as a coal cellar and
wine store. The soil is sandstone and sand in stratas, whilst
the floor of the dugout is some 17 feet below the overhead
ground level.
On Monday afternoon, 19th instant, the boy brought d-own
some fresh bricks on a board. We heard a crash downstairs
after he had come up on the top, and on going down we found
a brick had gone from one end of the dugout (at F on plan,
p. 160) to the other (17 feet) and struck the stove bottom at
the other end, which was standing against the stove in the corner.
The mark it made on the iron is still visible. No one what-
ever was in the dugout, and the brick lay at the bottom of
the stove bottom. The further the bricks and stones travel
the more force they seem to gather, and on another day the
rock strata in the recess [at about E in the plan, p. 160, but the
recess was then unfinished] about 4 feet from the floor broke a^way
of its own accord, flew to the end of the dugout and smashed
a cast-iron stove [at Gr, see plan, p. 160] and stove pipe. These
articles were protected from the rock in the recess by the brick-
work at the edge of the recess, and it is impossible for the rock
to have gone straight from the recess to the stove. We picked
up a barrow load of stone from around the stove, and the next
day when we started work there was a further barrow load •
of
stones round the entrance to the dugout beside the stove. On
the stove are visible the marks where' it was hit. This was about
a fortnight ago. ^ ' .
Another day we had two candles alight, and hearing a double
168 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apeil-May, 1918.
hiss the candles went out. This happened five times in all and
each time we found the sand adhering to the candles and sand
was also all round them. We then got two glasses from the
house and stood the candles in them and shortly afterwards
we heard the same hissing noise, but the candles did not go
out, although sand was found in the bottom of the glasses when
we looked. I said, " Now we've done them alright," when in-
stantly the jars were both knocked off by two stones which came
from nowhere apparently. The funny thing was that they both
went down at the same instant, and not one after the other.
On Monday I was standing in the dugout with my head close
to the ceiling and felt something like some dirt come on my
head. I asked the boy what was on my head, at the same time
putting up my hand to brush it away, and he roared vdth
laughter as he said a brick was hovering there. As my hand
got near it, it fell down and dropped on the ground near my
feet. The brick must have come up off the ground, as there
were no bricks anywhere else. The brick weighed about 10 lbs.
The above is a correct report of the statement made by me
on the 21st November, 1917. (Signed) F. W. Rolfe.
March 7, 1918. ,
Second Statement by Mr. Kolfe. (28/1/18.)
Whilst engaged at the dugout, small stones repeatedly flew
towards me whilst I was outside at the top, and I accordingly
avoided the heaps of excavated stones as much as possible.
On one occasion I was cutting a piece of timber, and purposely
took this behind the corner of the stable some 20 feet from
the dugout. After some 10 minutes the boy was walking towards
me and a stone whizzed between him and the wall (just skim-
ming the side of the ivy), struck the wall behind me and dropped
to the ground beside my feet. No heap of stones was within
20 or 30 feet. I then went into the stable, the door of which
was half open, and I had just got inside when a big stone
struck the door with such force as to shut it. The old carman
was there and remarked, " That was a near 'un." The boy was
roimd the corner where I had been sawing.
When I commenced to finish the brickwork in the recess,
the second day the candles started going out and little pieces
of stone to fly about, as before. We had a fresh load of bricks
April-Mat, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 169
in, wliicli were put in a heap at the top near the entrance.
The boy was coming down with an armful of the old bricks,
when we heard a thud, and he shouted out that a brick had
come down off the heap at the top. At intervals several more
of these new bricks came over. We had just got all the bricks
down below when the boy came rushing in from the bottom
of the dugout steps limping and shouting out that his leg was
broken. I rushed out and saw a large rock which had come
down and struck against his foot. It wanted two hands to lift^
it, and if it had hit him fairly it would have smashed him up.
As it was he had some bad bruises for several days.
^Vhen I had finished bricking up the hole and levelled the
bottom, I went for Mr. Jacques to come and have a look round.
"When .1 came in with him the whole of the top row of bricks
had been pushed oii on to the floor. The bricks had been
cemented in for some 12 hours. I do not think there is the
slightest suspicion that the boy went down and did this in the
short time I was going over to the house, as by this date he
was getting a bit nervous, and would not go down unless some-
one was there.
The day before I finished work I went to get the floor
straightened up, starting about 8 o'clock a.m. The club hammer
(weighing about 6 lbs.) was then lying on the floor. I put this
hammer round the exit place, and laid it against the wall at
the top of the steps. I went back and took hold of the shovel
to get the earth up, and within a minute I heard a little thud
on the earth beside me. I looked down and there was the hammer
at my feet again. It seemed to hit the ground very lightly,
and despite its weight made hardly any noise. I asked the boy,
who was working alongside me, to take it right out as it was
becoming a nuisance. He took it out and came back and told
me he had put it at the bottom of the entrance round the
corner, and whilst he was telling me I just caught sight of it
settling down beside me again, just as a bird would settle down.
I told him to take it away farther, and he came back and told
me he had put it over beside the stable, but hardly had he
told me when it was back at my feet again, so we left it there.
The same da}^ I was standing at the corner of the recess
and told the boy to take away the broken stove pipe, so that
we could take the stove up. He said, " Why, you don't think
the stove will jump about.'" I was about to tell him I wasn't
170 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. april-May, 1918.
going to leave anything to cliance when he said, " What's that."
I turned round quickly, and the stove was then standing on the
ground close behind me. This stove weighed anything up to
a hundredweight, but settled down so gently that I never heard
it ; but the boy's ears were apparently sharper than mine.
I found towards the end of the work that nothing seemed to
happen when any stranger was there, and so I persuaded an
old chap from Cheriton to come up and sit up there with us,
and by this means I was able to push ahead and get the work
done.
I concreted the floor one day, and the next morning, as it
was set, went down and began to float the surface with cement
and sand. I had finished off about a couple of square yards
and levelled it up, when suddenly a rush of beach stones came
from behind me and spread out completely over the surface
I had just finished. I shouted to the boy to come down with
a pail and we picked them all off. I then smoothed it up
again when another rush of stones came. The stones were the
beach stones out of the nearly set concrete behind me, and
had the cement adhering to them when we picked them up,
so there was no doubt at all where they had come from. We
then got a sheet and covered over the piece I had not faced
up, but for a third time a rush came, and these must have
come out imder the edges of the sheet. They were on each
occasion spread over the whole surface of what I had levelled
up, and not on a patch as would have happened had anyone
thrown them. I was all alone in the dugout, and the boy was
outside. After the third time I sent down again and "ot the
old man to come and did not do any more till he came, and
when he arrived I had no farther interruptions and was able
to finish the work. I might mention I sent for him early in
the morning as I was starting, but he sent up a message that he
had a chapter to read before he could come out, but would
come up later. ..... .
•
.
•
The above is a correct report of the statement made by me
on the 28th January, 1918. (Signed) F. W. Eolfe.
March 7, 1918. '
.
April-May. 1918. The Folkestove Poltergeist. 171
Statement of Frederick Wm. Reginald Penfold, of Fairview
Cottages, Peane, Nr. Folkestone, a Country Lad of about
16, WORKING with THE BuiLDER : • •
The beginning was when the hole was first dug, when sand
Ijegan to drop to the bottom. Mr. Rolfe accused me of pushing
it down the hole, and after a second lot dropped on him and
also a stone," I assured him that I had not touched it, and we
cleared everything well away from the top. Nothing else happened
until the brickwork was nearly finished. Then whilst I was
down below Mr. Rolfe asked me to pick up a rock lying out
in the middle of the floor, but as I stooped to pick it up it
flew up and struck the wall beside him. Next, when picking
up the rocks from where the brickwork was to come we laid
them against a door. Mr. Rolfe by this time had got so sick
of everything jumping up and hitting him that he had sus-
pended a curtain from the ceiling to protect himself as we was
working behind it. Whilst I was outside the curtain one day,
I saw some of the rocks come up from the heap and hit against
the curtain, and after one or two had hit the curtain a large
one landed on top of it and brought it down altogether. We
then hurried out of the dugout altogether to see if anything
else happened, but there was nothing further happened. The
curtain was again put up, and before it was properly up another
stone knocked it down. Mr. Jacques was told about this and
the rocks were re-laid in their original position at the exit.
On Monday, 19th November, Mr. Rolfe asked me what was
-on his head, and 1 told him it was a brick, at the same time
teUing him how funny it looked. He put his hand to his head,
^nd as he did so the brick fell on the ground.
On another occasion the sand began to fly about in little
puffs and the candles were put out five times running with a
liissing noise, and when we went to light the candles again the
sand was each time still on them. We put them in glass jars
and at the next hissing noise some sand went down into the
jars but did not put them out. Mr. Rolfe said, " We've done
them this time," when immediately two stones came and knocked
the jars off at the same second. We lit them both again, and
one of them seemed as though it was bodily swept off and it
iell to the ground. The other was protected by a brick and was
172 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. apkil-May, 1918.
on a niche just above Mr. Rolfe's shoulder. In this case the
brick lightly struck Mr. Rolfe and the candle went out.
The next day Mr. Rolfe was again struck by a stone and
came out of the dugout, but as he was going up the ladder
a brick hit him lightly on the calf, and this brick must have
come up from the bottom of the dugout as there were no bricks
at the top.
Another day I was in the dugout and saw quite a lot of
bricks coming up from the floor and move quickly round the
dagout, and this time Mr. Rolfe called the cook who came over
and saw the bricks come up from the ground.
On Tuesday afternoon Mr. Rolfe told Mr. Jacques he had
left some stones out specially to show him. Mr. Jacques how-
ever told him he had better get them all right outside the dug-
out, and I stood at the bottom of the exit hole and loaded
up the pail, whilst Mr. Rolfe stood at the top and pulled them
out. Whilst he was doing this I saw a piece of oak skirting,
which was at the bottom beside me, just disappearing over the
top of the hole beside Mr. Rolfe. There was an oak beam
weighing about 30 lbs. standing beside me, and I asked him
whether I should take this away, but he said " No," as that
is much too heavy to be moved. As he turned away to empty
a pail I saw this beam (about 7 feet long) jumping up out of
the hole and shouted out " Look out." He turned round just
in time to see it fix up in the shrubs adjoining the exit. The
bricks, etc. never seemed to go for me, but only Mr. Rolfe.
[To this is appended :]
The accompanying is a correct report of the statement made
by me on the 21st November, 1917.
(Signed) Fred. William Penfold.
Statement by Miss Thomas, cook to Mr. Jacques for the past
15 YEARS OR so :
I had heard a lot about the peculiar happenings in the dug-
out, and about last Thursday or Friday I was walking round
the front of the house when Mr. Rolfe called out to me that
" They were at it again." I hurried over and stood at the
top on the ground. Mr. Rolfe was on a ladder nearly at the
April-May, 1918. TJte Folkestone Poltergeist. 173
top, and lie called to the boy, " Now go aud close the door and
we'll see what the effect is." The boy returned to the top, and
looking down under the ladder on the ground at the bottom of
the exit to the dugout I saw some bricks there begin to jump
about and bump against one another and several seemed to
fly towards the ladder. One in particular jumped uj) the ladder
towards Mr. Eolfe and fell back and was broken to pieces. The
number of bricks on the move that I saw I should think was
between three and five. They were all going just as if they
were having a lark together. I am quite certain that no one
could be touching the bricks. In fact I do not see how a man
could have made all the bricks move as they did, unless he had
a lot of extra hands ;
particularly as they were under the ladder.
This was at about 2.30 p.m., but they seem to happen at any
time, as on several occasions Mr. Eolfe has come in for water
to bathe his head which Avas cut, and I have also felt bumps
on his head on several occasions. On one day I remember he
could not get his coat on owing to damage caused to himself.
Several times he has given up work down there, as he felt he
couldn't go on with the interruptions.
[To this is appended :]
The accompanying is a correct report of the statement made by
me on the 21st November, 1917.
^gigned) C. M. Thomas.
Affidavit sworn by Private Cummins.
I, Private Edward Firth Cummins, No. 552972, " D " Squadron,
Canadian Light Horse (Eeserve Eegiment) C.E.C.E., of Shorn-
cliffe Camp, and 27 Quested Eoad, Cheriton, Folkestone, make
oath and say as follows :
Mr. Eolfe, the builder, told me about the happenings at the
dugout he was building for Mr. Jacques, in the grounds of
Enbrook Manor House, Cheriton. Of course I didn't believe
anything about it, and thought he had Bats in his Belfrey."
Anyhow, as he persisted it was true, I told him I would like
to visit the dugout, and see something for myself. On Monday,
19th November, 1917, at about 2 o'clock, we had a look at the
external portions of the dugout, and saw the stones he had
removed, which stood in a heap some feet away from the top
174 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. April-May, 1918.
of the steps. After a few minutes we went down the steps,
and after we were down about three steps a stone fell down
the steps behind me. This stone just trickled down and stopped
on about the third or fourth step close to my feet. There was
no one at the top behind me. We stood at the bottom just
in the dugout, and within five minutes or so a rock came down
the steps and hit the wall at the bottom. This rock weighed
about 1 lb. In about another three or four minutes another
large stone of about 20 lbs. hit the wall at the bottom with
considerable force, and within a few minutes more another two
stones came down with a short interval between. We then went
right inside the dugout, as it didn't seem very safe in the
entrance. The stones came down with great force, and I can't
even imagine a man throwing them with such force. Several
pieces of the brick stairs down to the dugout were knocked out
and still remain out. I did not run up to the top to confirm
that no one was there, as I could see no one was in sight when
the first small stone fell, as I was only down a few steps. The
boy who works with Mr. Kolfe was at the other end of the
dugout all the time. There are some thirteen steps in all down,
to the dugout.
On Tuesday, 20th November, at about 2.30, I went again
to the dugout, and as Mr. Rolfe was in the house repairing
his trousers, I went down alone. The boy was at the exit end
of the dugout, and I stood watching the candle, as Mr. Rolfe
had told me of the candle being blown out by blasts of sand.
As I was watching, a small stone of about J lb. or perhaps
J lb. struck me just on the hip on the opposite side to the
side the boy was standing. I did not take much notice of this,
but went on watching the candle. In about a minute another
stone struck mo in exactly the same place, and the boy said,
" Why they're going on to you the same as they do to Mr.
Rolfe." I said, " I'm going up," and the boy left off his work
and we both went up. Although the stones did not seem to
hit me very hard, and left no mark on the flesh, the pain was
out of proportion to what I imagined the blow ought to have
caused, and I felt it for some little time after.
Although I thought Mr. Rolfe was romancing when he told
me about it on Sunday, and although I was then extremely
sceptical, after my own experiences I have now altered my
opinion entirely.
April-May, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 175
Mr. Eolfe did not like the idea of going on further with the
excavation in the " recess " of the dugout, as it previously had
been very active with him, so as I wanted to experiment I
obtained permission from Mr. Jacques to go on with it as a
matter of interest.
On Thursday afternoon, 22nd November, at about 2.30, I took
down the boarding which had been fastened up in front of the
recess and began work. Mr. Eolfe was working outside on the
exit, and the boy inside with me. When I had taken down
the boarding I stood within a foot of the wall opposite the
recess, looking at the recess, and was struck a violent blow
on the back of the neck Avith sand, which came in a solid piece.
Had this been dry material of a hard nature it would have
knocked me out, but, being dry sand, after hitting me it
scattered over my shoulders and down my neck.
I have since tried the experiment of throwing similar sand,
but find that it is impossible to throw it in one solid lump
as this was when it hit me. It was then that Mr. Eolfe's
candle attracted my attention by being put out with a fine
shoot of sand, which came with a hissing noise. He lighted
this again, and I watched very carefully and it was put out
about a dozen times in all. Upon about three occasions the
sand did not quite put out the candle, but on such occasions
a stone immediately knocked the candle over with a crack.
i\Jl this time the boy was at the opposite end of the dugout,
right away from the candle. ^Vhilst I was watching this candle,
on several occasions I saw the spurt of sand coming from the
direction of the ceiling at a slight angle. I saw it when about
9 inches away from the candle, and it looked as though it was
shot from a pea-shooter. The ceiling in the direction this came
from was timbered, and no sand could possibly have come from
it, and the walls were also bricked in.
Suddenly the two candles I was working with, as well as
Mr. Eolfe's candle, went out, and rocks started to fly from the
excavation, crashing all round, which caused us to fly for the
door, which we had a little difficulty in getting open.
Neither the boy or myself were hit. Mr. Eolfe was working
in the exit, and so was practically outside the dugout already.
"V\Tien we were all out in the carriage drive none of us wanted
to come back again to clean up the stuff that had been pulled
out, but after a time I went in with the boy and threw out
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. april-May. idis.
the excavated material. As I was throwing this out quite a
number of rocks trickled across the floor into the corner. It
was then that we asked Mr. Jacques to come down again, but
all activity had ceased. He waited some 20 minutes and then
went, and had hardly got away from the entrance to the dug-
out when rocks started flying about again, and a piece of brick
came with great force and just hit my toe a glancing blow
and then hit the dugout wall. We called him down again, and
again everything stopped.
After getting most of the material away the boy was sitting
on the floor facing away from the recess, and I was standing
about a coui^lo of feet from the boy facing the recess, when a
9 or 10 jiound rock came between us, struck the wall opposite
and rebounded, hitting the boy's shin, causing him great pain.
Whilst in the dugout a crowbar, 3 feet long, leaning against
the wall in the middle of the dugout, floated out to the open
where Mr. Rolfe was standing.
I could not help feeling that a message was being conveyed
to me that I was not wanted there, for first of all the candles
going out, and the pieces of sand hitting me ; then a stronger
message in the form of small stones hitting me, and then by
much larger stones coming close to me, but not quite hitting me.
Edward Firth Cummins.
Sworn by the above named Edward Firth Cummins at
Folkestone in the County of Kent this fourth day of
December, 1917,
'
Before me. A. B. Watts, A Commissioner for Oaths.
December, 12.4:5. 1917.
Statement by Mr. W. H. Stephens, Military Tailor, of
31 EisBOROUGH Lane, Cheriton, Folkestone.
On a Monday night I was at the Club, when a friend of mine
told me he was afraid Mr. Rolfe had gone a little light-headed.
I went over to Mr. Eolfe, and he told me of the happenings
at the dugout, and I mentioned I should like to take a friend
with me and go up there for a time to see what hapjiened.
On Tuesday morning he came to my shop very white and
frightened (my shop is only a few minutes from the dugout).
Apeil-Mat, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 1 77
and told me his nerves had absolutely gone. I asLed him to
let me go up right away, and after some persuasion he con-
sented. I went up with him and had a look round, but was
very careful to keep the boy in front of me all the time. I
asked him if he had ever caught the boy playing a practical
joke of any sort and he told me he had not. I asked him
again if he had ever caught him in circumstances which looked
as though he was up to some mischief, and he then told me
he once caught him with a handful of sand. I turned on the
boy and said, " Young man, you ought to know better than
that." He said, " I didn't throw it." I came to the con^
elusion I saw nothing which the boy coidd not have done. I
tx)ld Sir. Rolfe I should like to spend a morning there with a
friend, and I made arrangements to go up the following morning.
I went up, and took Mr. Nichols, the contractor, with me. I
particularly requested Mr. Nichols to keep his eye on the boy
all the time he was there, and this was the real reason I wanted
someone with me. I told the boy not to have any nonsense,
and at about 10 o'clock we went down into the dugout. I
called Mr. Nichols attention to the peculiar nature of the rock
which in parts was light and more like pumicestone.
Mr. Rolfe pointed out the recess and told us that was where
-all the trouble seemed to come from, and Mr. Nichols started
to excavate, and got out about a cwt. or two. I had only
been there watching for a few minutes when I got a welt behind
the ear with a small stone. I turned round sharp and said,
" What is that " ;
but could see nobody who could have caused
it. Mr. Rolfe began to get excited and said, " That is how it
starts. Just like that." Then Mr. Nichols took my stand whilst
I started to dig, and he at once got " a load of stuff " hit him.
He was standing just at the bottom of the opening, and ^t once
came running in. We both looked round and could see nothing.
Then I heard the noise as though a man's arm was being quickly
moved and something came across beside me. I thought I saw
the boy's arm move as I turned round quickly, but was not
quite sure. He then sat down on a heap of stones and rubbish,
and I put the candles so that I could see the boy's shadows
clearly. I went on digging and felt something go by me ; but
•did not see the boy do it. I then got the boy to go on with
Tthe digging, which he did until he was absolutely tired.
I asked Rolfe to go in and have a go at it then, but he
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Aprii-Mat, 1918.
did not like to ;
eventually however he went down and took
up the work. '
Then I noticed the boy put his foot underneath the hammer
which was lying on the ground, so I at once stood on the handle.
I then had a good suspicion that the boy had a rock in his
hands ; but I said nothing, as I thought if I waited I
should see something definite, and I wanted to see what would
happen.
After Rolfe had been at work some 20 to 25 minutes, Nichols
went round the corner at the other end. I thought now's my
chance, so I shouted out to Mr. Nichols, " Where are you going
to Charlie. You're not frightened are you." He said " No. I'm
alright. I'm not frightened." Then I heard him touch the
door as though he was going to open it, and I said, " Alright.
You go out that way and I'll go out this way." I made as
if to go out the entrance, but suddenly turned and got a big
wad of sand right in my face, which I was just in time to
see the boy in the attitude of throwing. I turned on him and
he dropped on his knees and said, " Forgive me. I am sorry^
Now you have found me out I will own up to it all." " Not-
withstanding all that," Mr. Rolfe at once turned on me and
said, " I don't believe he has done it all." The boy at once
contradicted himself and said, " No, I havn't done it all, only
once or twice." I said, " We'll go through his pockets now,
and see what else he has ready." But Mr. Rolfe would not, nor
would he take the boy up right away to Mr. Jacques for him
to go through them, although we tried to persuade him that
this was what ought to be done. We told Mr. Jacques what
had happened, and ' our opinion that if he got rid of the boy
nothing further would happen.
Whilst we were at the dugout I tried throwing sand at the
wall, and noticed something very peculiar in that when a handful
of sand was thrown hard against the wall at the entrance it
would run along the wall aimed at, hit the wall adjoining in
the angle, and run along that for a long way, and I think this
accounts for some of the happenings, as under these circum-
stances the sand could be thrown in the dugout without anyone
throwing it in a direct line.
The above is a correct rejjort of the statement made by me on
the 8th December, 1917. (Signed) W. H. Stephens.
2nd March, 1918.
Apkil-Mat, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 179
Report to Sir Boverton Redwood, Bart., D.T.I, (oe H.M.
Petroleum Executive), on Phenomena at Enbrook Manor,
Cheriton, by Mr. E. H. Cunningham Craig.
On the 10th inst. I proceeded to Enbrook Manor to inv^esti-
gate the phenomena to which Lieut. -Colonel Todhunter had
called attention, and this report deals with the evidence obtained.
It will be recollected that the occurrences had attracted some
notice in the daily press, and the accounts of eye-witnesses
were given at length.
The facts are as foUows :
A dugout was being made in the grounds of the Manor, and
after a certain depth had been reached stones were thrown about
violently for no reason that the workmen could discover, occasion-
ally inflicting injuries upon them.
Supernatural agencies were suggested, and both Sir Conan
Doyle and Sir W. F. Barrett have visited the dugout, though
no statement as to what conclusion they arrived at has been made.
Lieut. -Colonel Todhunter suggested that the phenomena might
be due to an evolution of natural gas, and consequently I under-
took at your suggestion to investigate the matter.
I was accompanied by Major A. de Boissiere of the British
West Indies Regiment, as a second observer might have been
necessary.
The dugout and the surrounding ground were carefuUy in-
spected, and the builder and his assistant cross-examined, and
asked to show exactly what had taken place on diiJerent occasions.
The dugout has a cover of only nine feet and the surrounding
ground, though not actually flat, shows only small minor undu-
lations. The possibility of the phenomena being due to the
effect of unequal pressure must therefore be eliminated.
[A sketch plan of dugout was here inserted^ showing the
alcove as the position from which most of the stones were
projected. This plan is not reproduced, as the one on p. 160
serves the purpose.]
The strata, as far as I could ascertain, belong to the Sand-
gate beds or Folkestone beds, sub-groups of the lower green-
sand beneath the Gault. There is a general dip to the north-
north-east, but the strata are almost horizontal at this locality,
which lies on the northern flank of the great Weald anticline.
180 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apeil-Mat, 1918.
The strata cut through consist of coarse lightly compacted
sand with thin hard calcareous bands at frequent intervals.
It was after, and while, cutting through one of these hard bands,
now about two feet above the floor that the phenomena were
noticed. Pieces of the hard band were projected ^'iolently, some-
times striking the brickwalls and making distinct abrasions.
Sand also was discharged with some violence, and is said to have
extinguished the naked candles, by the light of which the work
was being done.
The accounts of these phenomena given by the builder and
his assistant have been repeated many times to newspaper
reporters and other persons, and have quite naturally become
gradually embellished with picturesque details not strictly accurate,
but j)robably firmly believed by the raconteurs.
It is admitted, however, that in the morning on beginning work
after the dugout had been shut up all night, the violent discharge
of stones and sand was more in evidence than after some hours
of work.
At the time of my visit the dugout was practically finished,
the floor, which had been flooded during a rainstorm, had been
puddled and was stamped firm and flat. Only in the alcove
were the strata seen, and there were no manifestations of
activity.
All the statements made that could be verified point to the
occurrence of natural gas, which, possibly ascending gradually
from a considerable depth has accumulated beneath the hard
and impervious bands of rock. The discharge of comparatively
> small quantities of gas would probably be quite sufficient to
cause most of the phenomena described, but it is more probable
that slight explosions, not necessarily accompanied by any loud
sound or well-marked flame, may have taken place also.
The gas, being no doubt chiefly methane, would not betray
its presence by odour, and an explosion in the absence of any-
thing like coal-dust would hardly be visible as flame.
There seemed to be slight traces of gas still left in crannies
at the entrance to the alcove.
The occurrence of natural gas in such strata is by no means
extraordinary. The structure is anticlinal, and not many miles
away, at Heathfield, natural gas has been struck in a well, drilled,
it is true, somewhat nearer to the crest of the anticline and
penetrating into rather older strata.
Apeil-May, 1918. The Folkestone Poltergeist. 181
It is unlikely that any great evolution of gas will take place
again unless the dugout be deepened, but it is quite possible
that a little may collect gxadually, and unless the dugout be
kept well ventilated —a very simple matter OAving to the two
entrances—it might be dangerous to enter it with a naked light
after it had been left shut up and undisturbed for some
time.
It is suggested that the owner, Mr. Jacques, should be warned
of this possibility.
(Sgnd.) E. H. Cunningham Craig.
December 13, 1917,
On seeing the above statements in proof Mr. Cunningham
Craig wrote on 28th March, 1918 :
28th March, 1918.
Had I known that so much interest would be taken in the
subject, I should have made my report much longer, and given
further evidence from my notes taken at the time of my visit.
In the circumstances I think it as well to make my position
quite clear.
I am not altogether ignorant of supernormal phenomena, and
should be the last to scoff at accounts of occurrences that cannot
be explained as due to some simple and normal cause, but I take
it that in investigations such as this it is the rule to eliminate
the possibility of all natural causes before claiming any phenomena
as supernormal, if only to give no excuse to those who scoff at
things they do not understand.
In this case there were twb possible explanations, viz., pressure
and natural gas. The former had to be rejected, as there is no
evidence of rapid earth movement in the neighbourhood, which
might have placed the hard beds in the Folkestone Group under
severe tangential pressure.
I obtained no conclusive proof of the presence of methane,
having no vacuum bottles with me, but there certainly seemed
to be traces of inflammable gas in crannies at the top of the
alcove. I noticed also a slight feeling of discomfort, such as I
have frequently noticed in mines where the ventilation is not
good. I should not mention that as evidence had not my friend.
Major de Boissiere, remarked it also, and without any suggestion
from me.
182 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Apeil-Mat, 1918.
I have no doubt that the phenomena described are in the main
quite accurate, but there has been " embellishment " in some
cases. We found both Mr. Rolfe and the boy Penfold very-
anxious to prove that there could be no " normal " explanation,
and several statements were made to us which could not be
substantiated. For instance, it was stated that stones came
round the corner from the alcove. We suggested a ricochet off
the brick wall, but were told that was impossible as the wall
would show traces. The wall being examined showed very clearly
the marks of glancing blows.
Major de Boissiere, who, though not a trained scientist, is a
very shrewd observer, was chiefly impressed by the mischievous
twinkle in the boy Penfold's eye, and I think it possible that
he may have " assisted " the phenomena.
However, to cut a long story short, the phenomena, as described
to me at the time of my visit, are quite typical of the discharge
of natural gas. I have come across quite as remarkable instances
before. The hovering brick incident was not mentioned, and when
the boy Penfold began to describe rocks slowly rolling over and
coming down into the dugout, the man Rolfe shook his head
and stopped him, from which I gathered that he could not confirm
his young assistant's statements.
The whole question can be settled very quickly by drilling a
hole to a depth of 20 or 30 feet at a distance of 50 or 100 yards
away on the same line of strike. The hole should of course be
cased, and if any gas be discharged it can be collected and
tested.
I should be glad to learn from Sir William Barrett something
more about the characteristics of poltergeists, about which I know
nothing, except what I have read. In return I should be willing
to tell him from my own experience something about natural gas.
(Signed) E. H. Cunningham Craig.
April-May, 1918. Review. 183
EEVIEW.
The Gate of Eememhrance. The Story of the Psychological Experi-
ment which resulted in the discovery of the Edgar Chapel
at Glastonbury. By Frederick Bligh Bond, F.R.I.B.A. Published
by B. H. Blackwell, Oxford.
This is an interesting record of automatic script whatever
hypothesis may be adopted as to the source of the ideas it
contains. The writing was obtained, at intervals between Novem-
ber, 1907, and December, 1916, by two friends, the author of
the book and J A . J. A. held the pencil and Mr. Bond
rested his fingers lightly on the back of J. A.'s hand. Neither
of them followed the script as it was produced, but Mr. Bond
seems to have deciphered it as far as possible immediately aft-=r-
wards. The language was usually what purported to be old
English, but was sometimes Latin. The subject of Glastonbury
Abbey was started by an initial question of Mr. Bond's, and the
script was all through occasionally stimulated and directed by
questions. Mr. Bond and his friend were both very well versed
in Glastonbury lore and in architectural knowledge generally
;
and at the time the experiments began Mr. Bond was expecting
an appointment, which he afterwards received, as Director of
Excavations at the Abbey.
The portions of script quoted come under three heads. There
are the descriptions of the Edgar Chapel at Glastonbury which
it was desired to fi.nd and whose position and appearance were
unknown. There were similarly descriptions of the Loretto Chapel.
And there were accounts of persons and events connected with
the Abbey—some historical and some not known to be so.
The statements under this last head when not known to history
cannot be verified ; and the supposed site of the Loretto Chapel
has not yet been excavated, so that the accuracy of the descriptions
remain imverifled for the present. Mr. Bond has, we think, acted
wisely in publishing the description beforehand. But as regards
the Edgar Chapel there was found to be, along with some
error or confusion, a surprising correspondence between the site,
plan, and dimensions as given in the scripts and the facts revealed
by the excavations ; and there is no doubt that some of the
most important scripts were produced before the excavations
were begun. ^
The question naturally arises, where did this veridical informa-
tion come from ? The scripts, as is so often the case, take a
dramatic form and profess to be messages from definite people.
Abbot Bere, who built both the Edgar and the Loretto Chapels,
^ For this we have in addition to the statements of the writers themselves,
the testimony of our honorary secretary, Mr. Feilding, who was cognisant of
the experiments.
184 Jotirnal of Society fm^ Psychical Research. April-May, 1918.
sometimes writes about them and sometimes other communicators
are named. Their knowledge of the building is not apparently
limited to what they knew when alive. Thus one " Robert,"
who gives his date as 1334, nearly two centuries earlier than
the building of the chapel, writes, " The window [of the Abbey
Church] was straight as we knew it, but was somewhat changed
by Abbot Bere when he made the chapel . .
." (p. 47). And
Abbot Bere himself appears to know about the present condition
of unexcavated foundations. Thus he writes (p. 53), " The cript
is fallen in, but the clay is not the old clay. Clear out the midst
thereof, and many fragments be there." And again about the
Loretto Chapel, "if ye digge in the wall of the navis, there
is much fell in" (p. 119). These and some other considerations
seem to accord less well with a spiritualistic hypothesis than with
what appears to be the provisional conclusion of Mr. Bond himself,
namely, that the subliminal consciousness ' of the automatists is
responsible for the insight shown. He says on p. 156 :
" Intuition has played her part. From the depths of the sub-
conscious mind her power has evoked these images. . . . The method
we have chosen [i.e. the method of automatic writing] . . . claims
a double value—(1) in its ability to remember and to review
subconsciously an infinitude of minor things, slightly or casually
impressed upon the mind and unnoticed or unremembered by
the working brain ; and (2) the faculty of balancing, assessing,
and combining these in such a manner as the brain itself is
rarely if ever able to do, and hence to evolve from slenderest
data a scheme in which all probabilities which can lawfully be
inferred from these minutiae are welded into a complete whole."
The book is well got up and illustrated, and is likely to interest
readers who care about our ancient buildings, as well as students
of automatic writing.
SITTINGS WITH MRS. LEONARD.
The Sittings arranged for by the Society ended in the
middle of April. It remains for the Committee, appointed
to deal with the matter, to study and report on the results,
but it will probably be some considerable time before their
report can be ready.
* Rather oddly "supraliminal" occurs several times in the book with the
meaning "subliminal.''
No. CCCXLVI.—Vol. XVIII. June, 1918.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Notice of Meeting, 1S5
New Members and Associates, 186
Meeting of the Council, 186
Personal Appearance of the Departed as described by the Controls, - - - 187
Cases, 191
Correspondence, 196
Review, 198
"Phantasms of the Living " : Abridged Edition, 200
A Norwegian Society for Psychical Research, 200
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the
WILL BE HELD AT THE HOUSE OF
THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE
(IN THE ROBERT BARNES HALL),
1 WIMPOLE STREET, LONDON, W.,
(Entrance in Henrietta Street),
On Friday, July ^th, 191 8, at 3 /.;//.
WHEN
DR. T. W. MITCHELL
WILL READ A PAPER ON
The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple
Personality."
N.B.
—
Members afid Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an
invitation card signed by a Member or Associate. Each
Me?nber or Associate is allowed to invite one friend.
Note. —Those proposing to attend the meeting may find it useful to remind themselves
of the outlines of the Doris Fischer Case by re-reading Dr. Schiller's review in
the last part of Proceedings, No. LXXIV. , December 1917, p. 386.
Society
186 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, jone, 1918.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Glenconner, The Right Hon. Lord, 34 Queen Anne's Gate,
Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
Hobson, Walter D., Tan-y-Biyn, Bangor, North Wales.
Hollick, Mrs. A. J., 9 Eaton Gardens, Hove, Sussex.
James, Major E, A. H., R.E., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing
Cross, London, S.W. 1.
Jones-Parry, Mrs., Kaikoura, Malvern Wells, Worcestershire.
Poore, Mrs. J. B., 17 Rosemount Road, Bournemouth West.
Sempill, Colonel The Master of. Junior United Service Club,
Charles Street, London, W. 1.
Arnold, Mrs., 98 Masbro' Road, London, W. 14.
Boxer, Miss C6cile F., Firwood, Alum Chine, West Bournemouth.
Clarke, J. F. Mostyn, Whins, Polzeath, Wadebridge, Cornwall.
Cobden-Sanderson, Mrs., 15 Upper Mall, Hammer.smith, London, W.
Frost, Lieutenant Lowell C, M.D., Base Hospital, Camp Kearney,
Linda Vista, Cal, U.S.A.
Hobart-Hampden, The Rev. A. K., Onslow Hotel, Queen's Gate,
S. Kensington, London, S.W. 7.
HoPKiNSON, Mrs. John, Ellerslie, Adams Road, Cambridge.
JoscELYNE, A. T. Cecil, 65 Richmond Road, Dalston, London, E. 8.
RuBLEE, Mrs., 73 Upper Berkeley Street, London, W. 1.
Scott, Captain J. K, 6 O.C.B., Trinity College, Oxford.
Spencer, Ma.jor Richard E. E., Walbottle Hall, Newburn-on-Tyne,
Northumberland.
St. John, Mrs., 13 Washington House, Basil Street, London, S.W. 3.
Talbot, Mrs. Hugh, 1 Oakwood Court, Kensington, London, W. 14,
Walker, John, Albert Hotel, 11 Craven Road, Paddington,
London, W. 2.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 155th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Thursday, May 9th, 1918, at 4 p.m.;
the Rev. M. A. Bayfield in the chair. There were also
present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett, and Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick ; also Mrs. Salter, Editor, and Miss Isabel
Newton, Secretary.
June, 1918. Meeting of the Council. 187
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Seven new Members and fourteen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for March and April, 1918, were
presented and taken as read.
A letter was read from the Society's pul^lishers, Messrs.
K. MacLehose & Co., calling attention to the great increase
in the costs of paper and printing, the price of paper being
nearly seven times the price at which it stood before the War,
and the cost of printing being more than double. The Council
asked the Hon. Secretary, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, to consider
with the Treasurer, Editor, and Secretary how this increase
of costs could best be met.
It was agreed that the Eooms of the Society should be
closed this year on August 3rd until September 9th.
THE PEESONAL APPEARANCE OF THE DEPAETED
AS DESCEIBED BY CONTROLS.
By Dr. L. p. Jacks.
Descriptions of the personal appearance of "spirits," which
are of course quite common at seances, give rise, when care-
fully examined, to some extremely interesting ijuestions, which,
I think, would well repay careful consideration. Unless I am
mistaken, their importance has somehow been overlooked.
At a recent stance at which I was present the descriptions
of the figures, faces, dress, and general appearance of the
communicating spirits was Ijoth intelligent and minute. I
cannot say they were correct; because it was not always clear
to whom they referred, but they were certainly such as a
good observer would give of a person standing before him.
The figure and face were well characterised point by point,
the height, the stoop of the shoulders, peculiarities of gait, the
build of the nose and the cheekbones, the angle of the eye-
brows, the positiveness of the chin, etc., and in addition to
these obvious characters subtler and minuter points were
introduced, such as the texture of the skin, the expression of
particular features, the general look as of a man who was an
188 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1918.
orator, or a student, or of a woman who had suffered from
illness ; or the tendency of a bit of hair to stick out at the
back of the head. Age distinctions were also introduced as
usual ; this one was about 2 2 ; that one was elderly, and
so on.
What inferences may we legitimately draw from all this ?
I am informed that two main theories are in existence
:
(1) That the departed retain in their spiritual life the bodily
characteristics they had in this world about the time of their
departure,—and this down to the details, such as the bit of
hair sticking up at the l)ack of the head. (2) That the
appearances as described hy the control are temporary mani-
festations in wliich the departed reproduce their bodily
appearance just as we knew it here, for the special purpose
of enabling us to recognise them. This process is called
" building up."
I venture to think that neither of these theories will bear
close examination. Examining each in turn it seems to me
that in regard to ( 1 ) the difficulty about age alone is almost
insuperable. To assign a given age to a person has the
double meaning that he was once younger and is no%o grovj-
ing older. To say, for example, that he is 60 means that he
was once 50, and will in course of time become 70—that is
if 60 has any meaning at all. What this involves is too
obvious to need pointing out. There are, literally, hundreds
of difficulties of a like nature, of which I will mention only
one more by way of a sample. At the seance above men-
tioned two spirits were introduced, one of whom was described
as having hair on his face, the other as " clean-shaven." Taking
these two descriptions together we reach a rather odd con-
clusion. The hairy face suggests that hair retains its growth in
the spirit world. How then could the other spirit remain
clean-shaven under these conditions unless he continued to
shave ? This is not an attempt to raise a laugh, but a
serious difficulty. And it is typical of all the rest.
(2) In face of these difficulties, which might be multiplied
endlessly, we fall back on the second theory that the spirits
reproduce themselves thus for the special purpose of obtaining
recognition for the time l^eing, the " building up " theory.
This theory can be accepted only if we are willing to
June, 1918. Personal Appearance of the Departed. 189
credit the spirits with thauinaturgic powers. Putting the
power to work miracles aside for the moment, the matter
would stand somewhat as follows.
To reproduce their appearance in detail, as we knew it in
this life, the spirits must (1) have known exactly how they
looked to us, and (2) be able to remember this in their
present existence.
But in our earthly life none of us knows, with anything
approaching accuracy, how he looks to other people. We
never see ourselves as others see us except in the vaguest
and most inaccurate manner. Such things as the poise of
our heads, the expression in our eyes, the " orator like " look,
peculiarities of gait, the turn of the mouth, the slight droop
of the shoulders, the air of one who has had a long illness,
and a thousand such like things which figure in these portraits,
suggest the impressions we form on other people's minds, not
any picture we have of ourselves. Still less have we the
power of remembering how we looked to other people at long
or short intervals afterwards. If anybody doubts this let him
try the experiment of describing the picture he formed, not
in his own eyes, but in those of some other person six
months ago, including such things as his expression, the suit
of clothes he had on, the way his hair was brushed, his
general mien and carriage, the texture of his skin, etc., etc.
He will soon find out that to reproduce himself thus, as another
saw him, is precisely what he cannot do. The idea of his
being able to do so is flagrantly absurd.
But suppose the spirits have a thaumaturgic power which
enables them to know how they looked to other people, to
remember it, and to reproduce it in detail—impossible as this
is under normal psychological conditions. This I should say
proves far too much. A spirit whose memory of his past
self, and of the impression it produced on others, enables him
to remember that his face was lit up by a particular expression
or such minute details as a bit of hair sticking out at the
hach of his head, and who can miraculously reproduce all this,
ought not to get into difficulties when it comes to a question
of spelling his own name. Yet this is what happened at the
seance in question. All the details of his face and hair were
given with the utmost minuteness, but the spelling of his
190 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1918.
name seemed beyond him. Even the first letter was hesitating
and doubtful.^
I have examined many of these descriptions of the personal
appearance of spirits, and the conclusion suggested to my mind,
especially ivhen the details are closely studied, is that they are
not such pictures as any person could or would form of him-
self. Many of the details are of a kind which would not be
seen or noted even if we suppose that the person who gives
them is looking at his own photograph or studying his face
in a glass while he is speaking. On the other hand they are
just such pictures as another person, taking an external view,
would have of the features, expi-ession, bearing, etc., of the
individual before him. They are, I believe, the sitter s picture
of his departed friend. The sitter's mind, I am more and
more convinced, is the source from which they are derived.
How they are derived is another question. But something
can be gained if we can trace them to their source.
I may perhaps illustrate my point by the following, which
is of course a very common occurrence. A well-known man
had his portrait painted by a gifted artist, and all his friends
pronounced it a great success. It was exactly as we knew
him, as he looked to us. But when the subject himself saw
the finished work his remark was " Well, I never knew I
looked like that!"
'
In like manner I think it could be clearly proved that the
descriptions to which I am referring do not represent impres-
sions which the spirits have, or ever had, of themselves, but
the impressions which other j^eople had of them. As such of
course they may be perfectly accurate, though the spirits them-
selves might hardly recognise themselves under the terms given,
and might well say " I never knew I looked like that." I was
greatly struck by this at a certain seance at which I was the
sitter. A spirit whom I easily recognised was introduced and
described as having the look and air of a " good man." This
was always my impression of him in life. But it was the
'
It has been suggested to me that in tliis life we seldom think of ourselves
by our names, and may therefore easily forget them in the next life. But I
should say that in this life we think of our names at least as often as we do
of the shape of our noses, which last was given, in the instance quoted,
without any hesitation.
June, 1918. Personal Apjmtrance of the Departed. 191
very last thing he would ever have admitted of himself or
allowed others to say about him. His notion of himself was
the direct opposite. Of course it may be said that he knew
I thought of him as a good man, and remembering this in
the after-life, reproduced himself accordingly in order to be
recognised. But unfortunately he was the very one who had
forgotten how to spell his name. His memory of the difficult
thing and his forgetfulness of the easy one are very hard to
reconcile.
CASES.
Crystal Visions.
We owe the following cases to Sir WiUiam Barrett, who knows
Mrs. Sahs from whom he received them. The first of the
two presents the unusual and very interesting feature of
what appears to have been a veridical auditory haUucination,
induced by a shell held to the ear, accompanying the corre-
sponding crystal \^sion. It is, of course, much to be regretted
that we cannot get fk'st-hand evidence in the case from the
persons whose doings were perceived.
No. 1.
L. 1215. March 10, 1918.
My friend, Miss Taylor, has been able for some years to see
visions in the crystal, which are often veridical. She always
regretted not being able to hear what the " vision people " were
saying, and I decided to try an experiment suggested by a
French writer and induce clairaudience by using a shell. I first
induced a slight hypnotic trance and suggested verbally that
she would be able to hear. I then woke her and told her to
look in the crystal.
The first vision that appeared was the sitting-room in the
house of Mr. T. B., a friend of hers who I have never seen.
He was there with his brother and sister-in-law, and the room
was minutely described. It was evening, and the gas lighted,
and she saw the door open and a man come in. At this moment
I said, " Place the shell to your ear." She did so, and to her
delight she heard the newcomer exclaim, " There is good news
to-night, we have taken another village." They then proceeded
to talk about Mr. T. B. being called up and what arrange-
192 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1918.
ments he would make. Afterwards a maid came in with a tray
of sandwiches and whisky and soda, and the vision then faded.
Four days after, Miss Taylor went to see the B.'s and said
" I can tell you what you were doing on Saturday evening,"
and to their great astonishment did so, every detail being correct.
I may add that the expression " we have taken another village
"
appeared as a headline in the evening paper, but neither I nor
Miss Taylor had seen it. I have never seen the B.'s nor the
house in question.
This was in the early spring of 1917. Mary Salis.
I append a signed statement [from the crystal gazer].
The above account is exactly what occurred. The vision was
most distinct and the voices quite clear. I have never before
heard any voices, though I have always wished to do so. When
I spoke to the B.'s they were extremely surprised, as it was all
correct in every detail.
g jyj Xayior
March llth, 1918.
Mrs. Salis writes :
" I have been trying to get Mr. and
Mrs. B. (the people described) to sign a statement, but cannot
induce them to do so." She adds : "I have never used
hypnotism except to induce '
clairaudience.' Miss Taylor sees
the visions in a perfectly normal condition."
L. 1216. No. 2.
Copy of notes made on Tuesday, Fehniary 12, 1918.
Last night at 9.45 E. T. looked in the crystal and saw Geoffrey
sitting in a small room. It was very simply furnished, but there
were a couple of armchairs, and some prints on the walls and a
bright fire was burning. G. was alone and was reading a paper
by the light of a lamp placed on a table by him. I asked about
the situation of the house, and she said it appeared to have
many trees near it, but it was quite dark outside. (It was just
as if she went outside to look ! ) After a moment or two, she
saw G. get up, put down the paper and take up a book. He
then opened the door, turned out the lamp and went out,
leaving the room in darkness. M. Salis.
Note. 1 wrote at once to mj^ son and received a reply that
all was correct. At the time I had no idea what kind of a
building he was sleeping in nor where it was placed, but thought
it belonged to Lord Tankerville.
April 17, 1918. M. Salis.
June, 1918. Gases. 193
Mr. G. Salis writes :
Whittingham, Northumberland, April 13, 1918.
The account my mother wrote to me of Miss Elisa Taylor's
vision in a crystal is remarkably accurate. I turned down the
lamp before opening the door, and the shooting box in which
I am living was built as the officer's mess of the Canadian
Forestry Co. and belongs to Lord Ravensworth not Lord Tanker-
ville. It is warmed by a huge log fire, and I am naturally
saving of paraffin oil ! A letter was written to me describing
the vision a day or two after it occurred. G. Salis.
In answer to further enquiries Mr. G-. Salis writes on
April 22, 1918 :
(1) There are two green arm chairs lent me by the Navy and
Army Canteen Board—they are the most striking furniture
in an otherwise barely furnished room. There are 2 or 3
prints.
(2) The house is in a birch wood—trees growing right up to
it. A larch and two birches also are in front and their
branches sweep it.
(3) I get the Times every afternoon, by train,
(4) but do not have time to read it until the evening. I
usually get finished about half-past nine and then pick up
a book which I read a little before the fire and then take to
bed with me
(Signed) Geoffrey Salis,
Officer in charge of attached Labour
Board of Trade Timber Supply Department
with 112th Canadian Forestr}' Corps,
Wliittingham, Northumberland.
The foUowiiig day Mr. Salis wrote
:
In my statement of yesterday I forgot to say that there
are four coloured prints, "hunting types," on the wall.
They are the sole decoration (?) of the room.
Veridical Impression. Child Percipient.
L. 1217.
We owe the following case to the kindness of Mrs. E. S.
Russell, who writes :
Bryans Ground, Presteign,
Radnorshire, March 12, 1918.
My sister, Mrs. W . has asked me to write you an account
of the story she told you about my small boy.
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1918.
Unfortunately I did not write it down at the time, so I am not
sure as to the date, hut it was after November 4th [1917],
perhaps several days after, though before the news of my husband's
death came to us on November 16th. I think it was most
likely on November 8th or 9th, and my husband was killed
on November 6th.
Dicky, the small boy, was resting on my bed after limch
and I was sitting by his side sewing, and we were not talking,
when he sat up rather suddenly and said, " Daddy is dead."
I said, " Oh no, dear, he's not and I expect he'll come back to
us some day " ; but Dicky looked very upset and became flushed
and almost wept and said again, " No he won't, Dick knows
he's dead." I just said, " No, dear, I don't think he is," but
Dicky seemed so distressed and repeated, " No, no, Dick knows
it " so emphatically that I thought best to leave the subject
alone. He never referred to it again and had never said anything
of the sort before. When we did say anything about his father
it was always as to when he would come back and Dick's usual
remark was that he would run and open the gate for him. It
was so queer of Dick that I went almost at once and told my
sister here of it, but I had no impression at all that my husband
was dead, and only thought of it as odd of Dicky. Indeed we
had got to look upon my husband's safety as a foregone con-
clusion, for he had been through Gallipoli, El Arish and the
first battle of Gaza without a scratch.
[Signed] Elizabeth D. Eussell.
In reply to questions Mrs. Eussell writes on March 16,
1918:
(1) Dicky was born on August 3rd. 1914 [and was therefore
aged 3^ years at the date of his impression].
(2) I think " dead " does convey some meaning to him ; he
sees hedgehogs, worms, mice and such like animals dead, and
always asks about them, " Why dead, Dick wants them alive
again "—and he screws up his face into a half tearful state,
much as he did when he made the remark about his father
;
only that time he got very flushed and was much distressed.
(3) No, I don't think it was a dream in the sense of a sleeping
dream ; he was quiet, but awake. It gave me the idea of an
odd freak. I think he is a child with an acute imagination and
sensitive ; but he's essentially healthy and full of the joy of
life, about the happiest child we have ever come across.
June, 1918. Gases. 195
(5) Enclosed is my sister's account of the incident.
(6) I can't veraciously give an exact date ;
but we did go back
on it after we heard of my husband's death and fixed it at
somewhere between November 8th and 12th.
The account of Mrs. Russell's sister, Miss M. D. Holt, written
from the same address and dated March 17, 1918, is as follows :
I clearly recollect my sister telling me the following incident.
She had taken Dicky, her small son, upstairs for his after
dinner rest—the child had been lying quietly on the bed while
she was sewiag when suddenly he sat up and said, " Daddy's
dead." My sister said, " Oh no, he's not, some day he will come
back again " ; but Dicky repeated, " Daddy's dead, Dick Imows
it," and the child appeared very distressed, so much so that
my sister thought it best to humour him and turn his thoughts
to something else.
When he had finished his rest, she almost at once found me
and told me about it, but even then it never occurred to us
that the child's words were true.
My brother-in-law was killed on November 6th, 1917, and I
feel almost sure that it was a few days after that date that
this incident happened. Unfortunately neither of us made a note
of the exact date at the time.
[Signed] Mary D. Holt.
The death of Captain Edward Stanley Russell on November
6th, 1917, v^as announced in the Times of November 20.
It will be observed that in this case evidence of any exact
coincidence is wanting ; but there is no doubt that the little
boy's experience occurred some time before the news of his
father's death was received, and it is almost if not quite
certain that it did not occur before the death itself.
We have several instances in our collection of young children
receiving apparently telepathic impressions of events occurring
at a distance. Two cases very parallel to the present one
were published in Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I., pages 245
and 246.1 jj^ ^j^^g gj.g^ Qf these a child of five said to his
mother, " Cousin Janie is dead," and it w^as learnt afterwards
that Cousin Janie, a girl of sixteen, who had often played
with the child, had died that day at the Cape, the child
^Printed also in the S.P.R. Joimial, Vol. I. pp. 384 and 346 respectively.
Neither case is included in the new abridged edition of Phantasms of the
Living.
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1918.
being at Edinburgh. The child's mother could discover nothing
as to the kind of impression. In the second case a child of
about three said and repeated " Davie's drowned " on the
day and about the hour when a young cousin David was
drowned while skating. Unfortunately both these cases are
remote—^the record having been made many years after the
event.
In another case, recorded within a fortnight of its occurrence,
and printed in the Journal, Vol. VII., p. 8, the impression
took the form of a hallucination without the idea of death
being attached to it. A little girl of five and a quarter said
she saw ''little Jack in that chair." A few minutes afterwards
came a telephone message announcing the death of little
Jack. For other cases see Journal, Vol. IV., p. 334, and
Vol. v., p. 61. Compare also a case in the supplement to
Phantasms of the Living, Vol. II., p. 605, though this last is
again very remote.
CORRESPONDENCE.
Folkestone Poltergeist.
Madaim,—One or two points in Mr. Cunningham Craig's report
on the Phenomena at Enbrook Manor, Cheriton, which appears in
the Jovrnal for April and May 1918, seem to need rather more
explanation, and 1 think it would be of interest if he would give
us some further information on the behaviour of natural gas.
The account which be gives us of the phenomena would hardly
seem., to the reader who is at all acquainted with natural science,
to warrant the conclusion at which he arrives, viz. that the
phenomena can reasonably be attributed entirely to the action of
natural gas.
The difficulty to my mind is that the results, as described by
all the witnesses, are of so energetic a nature that natural gas
could hardly l)e the agent without betraying itself to the most
casual observer. Leaving aside the evidence of the workmen, Mr.
Cunningham Craig himself says that "pieces of the hard band
were projected violently, sometimes striking the brick walls and
making distinct abrasions." This means that very considerable
energy was at work. As to the size of the stones which were
thrown, we have the very clear piece of evidence supplied by Mr.
Jacques from bis own observations, made at a time when he was
the sole occupant of the dugout. They "varied," be says, "in
size from that of an orange to double the size," and these stones
came "violently into contact with the inside of the door." This
sbows clearly that whatever projected the stones must have used
June, 1918. Gorres'pondence. 197
very considerable force in the act. It is therefore rather sur-
prising to read Mr. Cunningham Craig's statement that "the
discharge of comparatively small quantities of gas would probably
be quite sufficient to cause most of the phenomena described, but it
is more probable that slight explosions, not necessarily accompanied
by any loud sound or well-marked flame, may have taken place."
Whilst deference is of course due to Mr. Cunningham Craig's
wide knowledge and experience of the subject, it is at the same
time most difficult to see how this explanation at all meets the
case. What, exactly, is supposed to happen when a stone is
violently discharged from the wall of the dugout? Two sug-
gestions appear to be contained in the explanation quoted above.
(1) The stone may be forced out by the pressure of gas
accumulated in the soil behind it.
(2) The stone may be expelled by an explosion, caused by the
ignition of a mixture of air and methane in a pocket, or
in the porous soil behind the stone.
With regard to (1), it is obvious that the pressure of gas
required to project a stone weighing a pound or more across a
dugout, particularly with sufficient violence to chip a brick wall,
would be very high indeed. I would like to ask Mr. Cunningham
Craig whether the accumulation of methane in the earth under
such pressures is known to occur. But even supposing that the
gas was present under a hard band of rock at sufficiently high
pressure, would it not escape when once the band had been
punctured, and rush out and fill the whole dugout, in which case
the occupants could hardly fail to be aware of its presence? Also,
when the pressure was once released, how could the phenomena
continue 1
With regard to (2), if we suppose the stones to have been
projected by means of explosions of methane in the soil behind
them, is it really credible that these explosions could be unaccom-
panied by any "loud sound or well-marked flame "1 One would
expect an explosion of sufficient violence to shoot out a stone
which should leave its mark on a brick wall, to make a noise like
a gun. Nobody in a dugout could fail to hear the popping of
a soda-water cork, so that it seems incredible that they could
fail to hear so powerful an explosion, and that time after time.
Another point of difficulty is the mode of ignition of the charge
behind the stone. It would seem that a candle, before igniting a
charge of gas in the interstices of the wall, must first fire the
gas in the dugout itself. Could this occur unobserved by the
occupants of the dugout ?
Further on Mr. Cunningham Craig says :
" There seemed to be
slight traces of gas still left in crannies at the entrance to the
alcove." He does not however tell us by what test he discovered
these traces. That also would be interesting.
One other point seems to be worth raising in connection with
the natural gas theory of this phenomenon. When Mr. Jacques
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1918.
left the dugout, and was about to close the door behind him, and
the fusilade of stones came against it, were the candles still alight,
or had he extinguished them ? This point seems important,
because if the candles were extinguished, the stones cannot have
been projected by explosions of gas.
G. N. N. Tyrrell.
EEVIEW.
Spiritualism and Sir Oliver Lodge. By Charles A. Mercier, M.D.,
etc. (The Mental Culture Enterprise.)
The Question: If a man die, shall he live again? Job xiv. 14. A
brief Examination of Modern Spiritualism. By Edward Clodd.
(Grant Pilchards.)
AVere it not that to ignore these books might be taken as an
acknowledgment that their contentions are unanswerable, I should
have replied to the Editor of the Journal, who lias asked me to
review them, that they really do not deserve notice. They
contain no new ideas, and what passes for argument in them has
been put forward over and over again, —always proving ineffective
because it is logically unsound. Neither author appears to have
recognised that in dealing with certain subjects it is imjaossible to
prove a universal negative. You may employ insinuation and
prejudice to discredit what you dislike, but the unbiassed inquirer
after truth, whose appeal is to reason, remains unsatisfied. Such
an incjuirer is quite aware that there is much fraud in the world,
much credulity, superstition, and mal-observation, and he believes
that there always has been. So far he has nothing to learn from
these two writers, who spend much time in impressing these facts
upon him ; but when he opens their books he may fairly expect
to find particular concrete instances of alleged supernormal or
spiritistic phenomena accounted for by some known normal or
non-spiritistic cause. If there has been fraud or carelessness on
the part of those who vouch for them, he demands to have this
proved. The authors of the books tell him, "It may have been,
or it probably was, thus or thus"; but he replies, "I knew that;
give me some definite ground for believing that in this particular
ease it ivas thus or thus." But his would-be teachers merely talk
round the point and leave him where he was before.
Moreover, it is usually considered desirable, before one writes
on a subject, to have had some practical experience or to possess
some personal knowledge of the matters of which one writes
;
otherwise one soon gets out of one's depth. Neither of these
writers, however, appears to have sat with a medium, or to have
been present at an experiment in crystal-gazing or thought-trans-
ference, still less to have made experiments in the two last
themselves. When Dr. Mercier wrote his book, his acquaintance
with psychical research, as he tells us himself, was confined to a
perusal of Raymond; but he has had great experience in mental
disease, and he had met with cases of such disease that were
June, 1918. Review. 19^
associated with a belief in spiritism, though, as he admits, spiritism
was not the prime cause of the trouble. Who, therefore, could be
better equipped, not merely to review Raymond (as the present
writer might, for instance, review A Text-Book of Insanity), but to
instruct the public on the subject of psychical research ? For he
is, as his title-page informs us, "M.D., F.R.C.P., F.R.C.S., Sometime
Examiner in Psychology and Mental Diseases in the University of
London; Lecturer in Insanity at the Medical Schools of the West-
minster Hospital, Charing Cross Hospital, and the Eoyal Free
Hospital. Author of A New Logic ; Psychology, Normal and Morbid;
A Text-Book of Insanity ; Criminal Responsibility; Crime and Insanity,.
etc." He was apparently convinced beforehand that a belief in
" spiritualism " and all that sort of thing is a sign of mental
degeneracy ; what more simple, then, than for the author of A Nevj
Logic to treat this conviction as a proved fact, make it the major
premiss of his syllogism, and then use it as his conclusion] This
seems to me to be what Dr. Mercier has done, and with evident
satisfaction to himself; but the resulting book is a poor compliment
to the intelligence of his expected readers.
Mr. Clodd wears his rue with a difference. He is a student of
legends and folk-lore, and primitive and savage superstitions :
and
the historical parts of his book would be interesting to those not
familiar with such things and who did not find them irrelevant to
the point immediately at issue. In the chapter on crystal-gazing
he tells us how the Queensland Aborigines, and the Maori, and the
Apache Indians, and the Dyaks, and the Zulus, and the Shamans
of Siberia, and Dr. Dee and others do or did it; but he omits to
tell us how he knows that neither they nor any crystal-gazers
among ourselves ever obtain knowledge by other than normal means.
In the chapter on telepathy, in which he frankly disbelieves, he
quotes eminent scientific men who have been present at experiments
that have failed. Drawing no distinction, apparently, between mental
processes and matter, he argues that since in some half-dozen cases
the telepathic tap could not be turned on to order, therefore there
never have been and never could be any cases of success ;
apparent
successes must have been assisted by intentional or unintentional
fraud. Yet personally, in spite of what I know of numerous failures,
I cannot help believing telepathy to be a fact, for I have actually
been (though these gentlemen will not believe me) a successful
percipient, when blind-folded and sitting deep in an arm-chair in a
corner with my back to the room. Am I to believe that one of
the agents, who had been cautioned not to utter a woi'd, inad-
vertently made a little noise like a pink rhomboid, and that I
unconsciously perceived and correctly interpreted it 1 Mr. Clodd
also gives us a list of mediums detected in fraud, and mentions
cases which he can only explain by assuming that tliere was
deception. From this his logic leads him to the conclusion that
there are not and cannot be honest mediums ; which is as much as
to argue that because there is much bad money in circulation, there
cannot be any that is good. In dealing with cross-correspondences
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. June, 1918.
lie makes whatever unfounded and improbable assumptions may be
necessary to prove his case, and comes triumphantly to the con-
clusion—to put what he means in plainer words than he uses —
that the S.P.R. is largely a pack of fools. And yet we have
produced from among our members critics both of our methods and
results far more acute and helpful than any who have shouted at
us de haul en bas from outside. M. A. Bayfield.
ABRIDGED EDITION IN ONE VOLUME OF "PHANTASMS
OF THE LIVING."
By Myers, Gurney, and Podmork. Edited by Mrs. Henry
SiDGWiCK. Published by Kegan, Paul, Trench, Trubner
& Co. Price 16s.
This book, which we announced and described in the Journal for
December-January, p. 121, under the belief that it would be published
in the course of January, has at length appeared. We notice
that on the wrapper it is stated, for reasons best known to the
publishers, that it contains "Spirit Drawings." Presumably this
refers to certain rough drawings by agents and percipients in
telepathic ex[)eriments. The editor wishes to disclaim all responsi-
bility for the curious misdescription.
A SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH IN NORWAY.
Miss Hekmione Ramsden, an Associate of the S.P.R., whose
experiments in thought transference with Miss Clarissa Miles
have, it will be remembered, been published in our Proceedings,
sends us the following interesting information
:
A Society for Psychical research has lately been started in
Norway under very ftivourable auspices. A generous donor, whose
anonymity is so strictly kept that neither the President nor the
members of Committee are acquainted with his name, has given a
sum of 40,000 kroner (about =£2,222) to start the society, while, in
addition to this, two large rooms have been given rent-free by
Fru Ragna Nielsen, and others have contributed books to form the
nucleus of a library.
Professor Oscar Jaeger has been chosen President, and the
Committee consists of the following : Dr. Christie, Dr. Ellen
Gleditsch (a former pupil of Madame Curie), Pastor Breda, Froken
Kaja Geelmuyden, Herr Christian Homan, and Miss Hermione
Ramsden. The last two have been for many years Associates of
the English society.
The Secretary's address is :
Norsk Selskab for psykisk Forskning,
Nordahl Bruns gade 22, Christiania, Norway.
We take the opportunity of heartily welcoming this new Society,
by which we hope much valuable work may be done.
No. CCCXLVII.—Vol. XVIII. July, 1918.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
List of New Members and Associates, 201
Serious Increase iu the Cost of ihe Society's Publications, 202
Meeting of the Council, - - - , 202
General Meeting, - . . - ooa
"Cloudless Sk.y beyond the Horizon," of Pror. Vol. XXII., - . - . - 203
A Ciise Delayed too long, - - - 20&
Correspondence, 211
The Rooms of tlie Society at 20 Hanover Square, London,
W. 1, will be closed after Saturday, August 3rd, re-opening on.
Monday, September 9tli.
The next number of the 'Journal' will be issued in October.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Nmii.es of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in SafALL Capitals.
Buchanan, Major H. M., Medical Headquarters, 4th N.Z. Inf.
Reserve Brigade, Sling Camp, Bulford.
Scott, H. Keeling, 26 Cannon Street, London, E.C. 4.
BoxEK, Major H. C, Firwood, Alum Cbiiie, Bournemouth, ^\'.
Davis, R. R., Old Grove House, The Grove, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Librarian, Selskabet for psykisk Forskning, Nordahl Brunsgade 22,
Christiania, Norway.
Librarian, Library of the University of Chicago, Chicago, III,
U.S.A.
MuiRHEAP, Mrs. James F., 19 Lancaster Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
Raikes, Lt.-Colonel T, W., 171 Victoria Street, London, S.W. 1.
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Resen.reli. July, 1918.
SEKIOUS INCREASE IN THE COST OE FEINTING
THE SOCIETY'S PUBLICATIONS.
The cost of printing and of paper has increased so enormously
that if the average scale of output of Proceedings and Juarnal
is to be maintained, it will involve an extra expenditure of
about £500 a year as compared with the pre-war scale. Only
a small part of this heavy drain on the Society's resources,
which is likely to continue for some years, can be met out
of annual income, and it must, in default of additional
funds being contributed, be met. by the sale of investments.
Realization of investments, liowever,—and above all at the
present time when the market value of even such sound
securities as those held by the Society has considerably
depreciated—is a course which the Council can contemplate
only with great leluctance. The Council, nevertheless, is of
opinion that to sell out invested funds is a lesser evil than
to reduce the output of Proceedings, especially now when a
rather unusually large amount of intei'esting matter is ready
or being prepared for publication.
In these days, when appeals of all kinds and for the
worthiest objects are legion, the Council hesitates to make a
general appeal to Members and Associates for donations
towards tiie increased cost of printing. At the same time
should the benevolence and the purse of any of our Members
and Associates not yet have been exhausted, and should they
be willing to contribute, the Council would greatly appreciate
their generosity.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 156th Meeting of tlie Council was held at 20 Hanover
Square, London, W., on Friday, July 5th, 1918, at 5 p.m.;
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfouk in the chair. There
were also present : Mr. W. W. Baggally, Sir William Barrett,
the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, Captain E. N. Bennett, Dr. T. W.
Mitchell, Mr. J. G. I'iddington, Mr. St. G. L. Fox Pitt, Mr.
Sydney C. Scott, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick : also Mrs. Salter,
Editor, and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
JuLr, 1918. Meeting of the Council. 203
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Two new Members and six new Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for May and June, 1918, were
presented and taken as read.
The Hon. Treasurer reported that the increase in the cost
of paper and printing of which the Council were informed at
their last meeting, would, according to his calculation, involve
an extra expenditure on Proceedings and Journal, as compared
with the pre-war average, of about £500 a year. Only a
small part of this extra expenditure could be met out of the
annual income, and though some slight economy might be
effected by using somewhat thinner paper, there appeared to
be no way of materially reducing the expense except by reducing
the amount printed. The Hon. Treasurer was loth to recom-
mend the selling of investments especially at the present time.
The Council, after some discussion, decided not to restrict the
output of Proceedings, but to instruct the Editor to keep down
the Journal to an average of 12 pages. Further, though with
reluctance, they determined to call the attention of Members
and Associates to the matter, and invite their assistance, in the
hope of thus avoiding the necessity of selling securities. The
form of appeal agreed on is printed above.
GENERAL MEETING.
The 150th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Robert Barnes Hall of the Royal Society of Medicine,
1 Wimpole Street, London, W., on Friday, July 5th, 1918,
at 3 p.m. ; The Right Hon. Gerald Balfour in the chair.
Dr. T. W. Mitchell read a paper " On the Doris Fischer
Case of Multiple Personality."
"CLOUDLESS SKY BEYOND THE HORIZON."
By Hubert Wales.
Since I joined the Society, about a year ago, I have been
trying to familiarize myself with its work in the past, and
a 2
204 Journal of Society for PsycJdcal Research. July, 1918.
among other things have read Mr. Piddington's exhaustive
and most interesting report on the concordant automatisms
observed in connection with Mrs. Piper's visit to England
in 1906-7. I feel that anything I can say in regard to it,
particularly at this late hour, can be of small value ; but it
does, I think, sometimes happen that, when a new mind
is brought to bear on a subject, it lights blithely upon points
that have escaped those that have long been trained upon
it at close range ; and so I venture to offer a few remarks,
for what they are worth, respecting the application of the
words " Cloudless sky beyond the horizon," quoted above.
These emerged originally at the Piper sitting of March 6,
1907—first " Cloudless Sky Horizon," in disconnected isolation,
and then the fiill phrase (pp. 148-9 of Mr. Piddington's report,
Proc. Vol. XXII.). The topic under discussion at the time
was Mrs. Verrall's script of January 28, called the " Hope,
Star and Browning " script, and they were apparently supplied
in response to Mr. Piddington's request for words connected
with that script. He divorces them, however, from their
context and refers them to the Greek words avros ovpavo^
uKvfXMv (translated " the very heaven waveless "), which had been
given to the trance personalities for elucidation on January 29,
on the grounds that they are " so satisfactory a paraphrase
"
of those words and that names and quotations associated
with them occur in the waking stage of the trance. He
further justifies his removal of " Cloudless Sky Horizon " from
their context by pointing out that they come on a fresh
sheet of paper in the trance script, that they are written
in larger and bolder characters than the preceding words,
that they are accompanied by the question " don't you under-
stand ?
" which in his experience rarely indicate an allusion
to another automatist. and that his request for words occurring
in the " Hope, Star "'
script is subsequently answered by the
furnishing of at least one word which can be so referred.
Mr. Piddington does not convince me by these arguments
that he is right in removing the passage from its context
;
but, if he should have mistaken the intention in that respect,
it would seem to me to be an exceedingly fortunate circum-
stance, from the point of view of the study of trance pheno-
mena ; for sustained discouragement, springing from the
July, 1918. " Cloudless Sky beyond the Horizon." 205
honest misappreliension of a sympathetic investigator, is
obviously a condition that can only occur by accident. The
persistence shown by the trance personalities in these circum-
stances (as I conceive them), in returning again and again to
their point, in reiterating their statements sitting after sitting,
in the face of the consistently negative attitude of the sitters,
seems to me to provide some unusually interesting material
to the consideration of the question of the source of the
trance intelligence. I hope, therefore, I may be forgiven
if, with the object of showing, if possible, that such conditions
have obtained, I proceed to a belated examination of Mr.
Piddington's reasons for separating the " Cloudless sky
"
passage from its verbal environment, and then offer reasons
in favonr of a contextual reading.
As we have seen, Mr. Piddington's first, and, indeed, his
only positive, reason for connecting the " Cloudless sky
"
phrase with the Greek words is that it provides " so satis-'
factory a paraphrase." So it seems at the first blush ; but
can we, upon analysis, call it a paraphrase at all without
somewhat straining the sense of the term ? A cloud is not
the same thing as a wave, " beyond the horizon " does not
import by any means the same idea as " beyond the wjp "
or atmosphere, and the third word auT09 is not suggested at
all. Of his four negative reasons, the first two concern the
production of the trance script, a subject upon which he is
necessarily in a far better position to form an opinion than
anyone else can be. As regards those, therefore, I will only
say, and that tentatively and with diffidence, that a fresh
sheet of paper is usually taken because its predecessor has
been filled, and that the writing of salient words in bold
and emphatic characters is, I think, a feature common in
the Piper script. Mr. Piddington's experience also establishes
the general rule that such expressions as " don't you under-
stand ?
" in the Piper trance are not associated with another
automatist ;
but, as a matter of fact, the rule does not hold
good in this particular case, for, a little further on in the
same sitting, a reference to a word admittedly belonging
to Mrs. Verrall's " Hope, Star " script is followed by the
question, " did you understand ?
"
(p. 72). In any case,
Mr. Piddington regards these three points as of minor impor-
206 Jotivnal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1918
tance ; he rests his main argument for a non-contextual
reading upon the ground that his request for words occurring
in the " Hope, Star " script was subsequently responded to.
This point, however, I thinlv, is much weakened by the circum-
stances that it was he who re-introduced the subject, after
some remarlvs connected with the deciphering of " horizon,"
and that the reply he received was worded, " he also wrote
something about bird " (italics mine). A fair inference from
this seems to be that the trance personalities supposed that
he was not satisfied by the words they had previously given
and accordingly supplied him with additional words.
I now turn to my reasons for thinking the " Cloudless
sky " phrase should be referred, as the context suggests, to
Mrs. Verrall's " Hope, Star " script of January 28.
]. The phrase seems to me to be, not merely implicit,
but almost explicit in Mrs. Verrall's script. A copy of this
is printed on p. 62 of Mr. Piddington's report, together with
reproductions of the two drawings at the end. The word
" sky " occurs in it three times, and conveys an impression
of a clear, rather than a cloudy, sky. But my main point
concerns the word " horizon." Let me say, to begin with,
that I read this script some time before I came to the first
reference in the report to the phrase " Cloudless sky beyond
the horizon," or its component words, so my mind was not
prepossessed by that idea. The first drawing at the foot of
the script—eliminating the triangle, which was introduced
for a particular purpose—is a long horizontal line, with a
half circle standing, points downwards, upon it. I took this
to represent the line of the horizon, with a rainbow above
it ;
regarding it as an illustration of the preceding line, " In
the sky the perfect arc." When subsequently I discovered
that this was a misquotation of Browning's, " On the earth
the broken arcs ; in the heaven, a perfect round," I slightly
modified that idea, and took the two drawings together to
indicate a conception of the Browning line. The second
drawing—again eliminating the triangle—is a circle. The
lower part of it is marked ADB, and it is followed by the
explanatory note :
" ADB is the part that unseen completes
the arc." In other words, as I took it as a matter of course,
the arc is completed in the " sky beyond the horizon."
July, 1918. " Cloudless Sky beyond the Hm^izon." 207
2. In the Piper sitting of March 6. where the " Cloudless
sky " phrase first emerges, it appears to be plainly stated
that this has been given to Mrs. Verrall ;
for, immediately
after a mention of the word " horizon," the following occurs :
" It was given like this " Then, after Mr. Piddington
has said " Yes," come the words, " A cloudless sky beyond the
Horison " (p. 149). Given to whom 1 Only Mrs. Verrall's
name has so far been mentioned ;
so, if not to her, it is
difficidt to conceive to whom the words could apply.
3. On four subsequent occasions—reckoning, as I am able
to do, only from the published reports and extracts of the
Piper sittings—^it is stated without equivocation that the
" Cloudless sky " phrase or " that sentence about horizon
"
has been given to Mrs. Verrall : on April 10 (p. 282) ; on
April 15 (p. 365) ; on April 17 (p. 284) ; and some time about
January, 1908 (the precise date is not given), after Mrs. Piper's
return to America (p. 90). On the second of these occasions
the additional statement is made that the phrase was given
"with other lines." Mrs. Verrall's "Hope, Star" script
contains, besides the line " On the earth," etc., two other
quotations from the same poem of Browning^
—
Aht Vogler.
On the third occasion the trance personality Myersp adds,
" I wrote myself a similar line, which I gave her also." I
suggest tentatively that •
this may refer to Frederic Myers's
line, " Thee the first number and harmonious whole," somewhat
similar in idea to "in the heaven, a perfect romid." It is
reflected in Mrs. Verrall's script of December 17, 1906 (p. 310).
4. On three occasions, in the published reports of the Piper
sittings, the word " horizon " is mentioned in connection
with the words " hope " and " star," or one of them : on
April 17 (pp. 284-5) ; on April 24 (p. 285, near the bottom) ;
and again on April 24 (p. 286, near the bottom). On the
first of these occasions it is stated that " the passage I wished
concerned . . . three words horizon was one of them and
Horizon was the most important " ; and on the second
occasion its position is more precisely indicated by the state-
ment that it came " after we wrote a few lines of Browning's
poem."
5. In the Piper sitting of March 6 the words, in reference
to "horizon," "It was given like this," are followed by a
208 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1918.
horizontal line (p. 149). To my mind this is a plain statement
that the word was brought out in Mrs. Verrall's script, not
in writing, but by the drawing of a line. Again, at the
sitting of April 17 (p. 284) the following occurs in the trance
script : "It came out I believe with a star being drawn also
horizon." Yet again, at the sitting of April 24 (p. 286), this
occurs :
" did she not mention Horizon, as Myers gave it
her ... a long line seemed to appear seemed on her paper."
The trance personality is told, however, " I don't think there
was a long line " ; and then, once more, a long horizontal
line is drawn.
The persistence with which the trance personalities stuck
to their true statement about this horizontal line, in the
face of repeated rebuffs, is, I think, of all their pertinacity
in this matter, the most remarkable. For, whatever else
may be in doubt, it is a simple fact, patent to the eye, that
Mrs. Verrall's "Hope, Star" script contains a long horizontal
line. One only regrets, somehow, that the communicating
intelligence, whatever it is, cannot be informed, even at this
late hour, that the line which " seemed to appear seemed
on her paper," did so appear.
6. In the waking stage of Mrs. Piper's trance of April 17
—the trance in which it had been stated that " Cloudless
sky" etc., had been given to Mrs. Verrall, that "horizon"
had been "drawn," and that "horizon" was the most impor-
tant of " three words "
—the word " rainbow " is twice uttered,
with descriptive emphasis and in an appropriate context, as
follows (p. 305) :
" What's the difference between this world
and another one, and that's a rainbow ... a rainbow
—
colours." The answer to the question, " What's the difference,"
etc., is, surely, " On the earth the broken arcs ; in the heaven,
a perfect round."
7. In the Piper sitting of April 24, immediately after " Hope
Star Horizon " had been written, this occurs :
" Horizon
comes elsewhere. Yes do not get confused dear Mrs. Sidgwick
"
(p. 286). The word " horizon " appears, in writing, in Mrs.
Verrall's script of April 15, nearly three months after the
" Hope, Star " script. The sentence above quoted evidently
requires it to have appeared on some occasion besides that.
I would like just to add that, if the " Cloudless sky
"
July, 1918. " Cloudless Sky beyond the Horizon." 209
phrase be referred to the " Hope Star " script, it would not,
in my view, in any way weaken the Greek words episode.
Mr. Piddington does not suggest that " Cloudless sky beyond
the horizon " is a translation of the Greek words ;
and,
moreover, the trance personalities were asked for a translation
only as an alternative. This was at the sitting of January 29
(p. 141) :
" Mrs. V. :
'
Yes. You could either translate them
into English, or tell me of what they make you think.'
"
The trance personalities gave the associations, and they nowhere
indicate that they apprehended they were expected to supple-
ment these with a translation, or that they had given a
translation. In any case, a translation or paraphrase, however
accurate, forthcoming on March 6, of Greek words spoken in
Mrs. Piper's presence on January 29, manifestly could have
no evidential value. On the other hand, the reference of this
phrase to the " Hope, Star " script would, I think, greatly
strengthen the interesting cross-correspondence which hinges
upon it—^interesting not only for its content, but for the attach-
ment to it of the agreed sign of a cross-correspondence, a triangle
within a circle. It would too, I believe, clear up obscurities
in the scripts concerned with the Latin message, and par-
ticularly would throw a flood of light on the difficulties which
centre in the indications that the second sentence of that
message was not accurately received or translated by the
trance personalities.
A CASE DELAYED TOO LONG.
In their Annual Report, which appeared in the Journal for
February-March of this year, the Council referred (p. 137), as
an illustration of cases not sent to them, to one described
apparently at second hand, in an essay by a Member of the
Society. The essay in question was one of those by Miss
L. Dougall in the book Immortality ; and the case was that
described on the authority of "Miss A." on pp. 250-251 of
the book.
Briefly the story is that Mrs. B. called on Miss A. on her
way to a visualising medium with whom she was having
a series of sittings. On this particular day, however,—as
Mrs. B. afterwards told Miss A.—the visions of the medium
t
/
210 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. July, 1918.
conveyed nothing to Mrs. B., who could make no sense of
them. Miss A. asked what they had been, and to her great
surprise found they were umnistakeably connected with serious
events with which Miss A.'s mind was occupied, but of which
she had not spoken to Mrs. B. Curiously, too, these visions
had been ushered in by one of a Chinaman in his native dress,
and it happened that Miss A. had that morning noticed two
gaily dressed Chinamen coming down the steps of the Chinese
Embassy in London as she passed.
This story, as will be at once seen, seems to show a strong
telepathic connection between the minds of the medium and
Miss A., produced in some way by the relation of both of them
to Mrs. B. And if this can be held to be demonstrated,
the fact is obviously of considerable theoretic interest.
I have lately had some correspondence with Miss Dougall
about the case. She herself heard it from Miss A., and
together with friends who were with her was much impressed
with it and with Miss A. as a witness. The account was
written down by Miss Dougall, and before it was used in
her essay was submitted to Miss A. about three months after
she had told the story, and was approved by her. We may
therefore practically regard the narrative as it appears in
Immortality as being a first-hand account.
Miss Dougall also very kindly told Miss A., who turns out
to be a lady well known to me personally though it is some
time since I have seen her, of my wish to hear more of the
case ; and from Miss A. I have received an interesting letter
about it, for which I am much indebted to her. She tells
me, however, that the incident occurred in 1892, more than
twenty-five years ago ; that she has long lost sight of Mrs. B.,
and doubts if she is still living ; and that she has no idea
who the medium concerned was. Under the circumstances
I think it is not worth while to press for an accoimt for
publication, or for any sacrifice of anonymity. The great
desire of the Council now is to obtain accounts of recent
experiences and of experiences recorded soon after they
occurred.
At the same time, knowing Miss A., and with her letter
before me testifying to a vivid recollection of what she describes
as the " quite astonishing experience," I myself cannot but
July, 1918. A Case delayed too long. 211
attach weight to the case, and I am grateful to her for
allowing me to give the following additional particulars.
Mss A. was at the time in great grief on account of the
sudden death by an accident of a near relative. Mrs. B.
knew about the accident, and in Miss A.'s opinion this makes
It possible that one of the two appropriate visions described
by the medium may have been independent of Miss A.'s
mind. But the one that struck her most concerned the
funeral service. This took place in a large building with a
roof supported by huge pillars, quite unusual in size for plain
pillars. Miss A. had sat so that fom' of these pillars had
been included in her field of vision, and, in that curious way
in which one sometimes notes an unimportant detail at the
moment of apparently total absorption in something affecting
one strongly, she noted these four pillars. The medium, as
reported by Mrs. B., described a meeting apparently for
worship in a building unknown to her in which she saw these
four (to her) unusual pillars. Miss A. does not now remember
quite what the description by the medium of the pillars was.
She only knows that, at the time, she remarked them as
the four pillars that had made such a strong impression on
her mind. The building and pillars were entirely unknown
to Mrs. B.
Miss A. tells me that she is not given to psychic experiences,
and that this is the only striking thing of the sort that has
ever happened to her.
This account has been revised by Miss A.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
COERESPONDENCE.
PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF THE DEPARTED AS
DESCRIBED BY CONTROLS.
To the Editor of the " Journal."
West Thurrock Vicarage,
Grays, Essex, 2U/i June, 19 1«.
Dear Madam,—The letter, from Dr. L. P. Jacks, in the last
issue is, to my mind, one of the most important contributions
to psychology we have had for a long time.
212 Journal of Society for Fsyckical Research. July, 1918.
The very points he mentions were brought to my notice, by
a Jewish gentleman, twenty years ago, and have weighed much
with me ever since. It is impossible to come, with our present
light, to any other conclusion than that someone is honestly
describing what he thinks he is looking at, and which, to him,
appears real, not merely as to the colour of the hair and pecu-
liarities of the deceased when in the flesh, but as to the shape
and texture of the clothing worn and the ornaments usually carried.
Who or " what " then is this " someone " ? Surely it is the
sub-normal personality of the medium. What does he see ?
Surely, it is the simple series of impressions now lying latent
in the mind of the sitter, impressions of the deceased as he used
to appear, which may not have any more reality than a cinema
film. If this be true, then it is easy to understand that, to
reproduce the name would be rather a difficulty, because to get
the impression of a mere name, unless that name was inscribed
on some article, is not easy.
On this theory, it is possible one may be after all only seeing
a shadow or film, a figment of a former impression, and taking
it for a reality. But, does this prove there is no " reality
"
at all ? By no means. The " reality " may be in existence
somewhere else far away, and have no knowledge whatever of
its film being mistaken for itself, but it shows how easily one
may be deceived unintentionally. This does not preclude, however,
the possibility of some other " intelligence " (other than the
medium's own mind) tapping and reproducing the impression
for deceptive purposes, and so personating the departed.
F. W. Hayes.
We have received several other communications from Members
and Associates discussing Dr. Jacks' article in the June Journal
on the personal appearance of the departed as described by
controls ; but we are precluded by considerations of space from
printing more here. In particular Sir Oliver Lodge has sent an
article of considerable length on the subject, which it is proposed
to print in the Journal for October.
No. OCCXLVIII.—Voi,. XVIII. _
October, 1918.
JOURNAL
: OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTESTS.
Replies to Dr. Jacks on the Personal Appearance of the Departed : page
I. By Sir Oliver Lodge, 213
II. By Professor James H. Ilyslop, - - 220
III. By Dr. F. C. S. Schiller, - - 222
Cases : Two Telepathic Dream.-,, 225
PERSONAL APPEARANCE OF THE DEPARTED.
(1.) By Sir Oliver Lodge.
In the June number of tlie Journal of the Society for Psychical
Research, the President, Dr. L. P. Jacks, raises some questions
which must clearly be faced, about the most reasonable way of
regarding the power which mediums undoubtedly possess of
describing the old mundane appearance of a communicator, at
a time when that communicator is ostensibly present and
sending messages.
It is an excellent thing to have matters of difl&culty thrashed
out, and the Society is indebted to its President for raising so
clearly and explicitly issues which are of the first importance
if the phenomena encountered are to be rationally understood.
My experience of the phenomena is necessarily larger than Dr.
Jacks's, and if I do not feel the full force of the difficulties
which he raises, if I fail to regard them as insuperable, there
must be some reason ; and that reason, so far as I understand
it, I will endeavour to make clear.
He says he does not vouch for the description given in any
given case as being " correct "—by which he must mean in
accordance with the sitter's memory,—because he was not always
sure for whom the description was intended : but if we are to
discuss the matter I must assume that we attend only to cases
in which the descriptions are accurate ;
for, if they are not in
the main correct, they are meaningless. It is easy—at least
it appears to be easy for a novelist—to give detailed descriptions of
imaginary persons, to relate what they do, what they say, and
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1918.
indeed to give their whole life history : so I must assume that
the descriptions given by a medium are not of this nature, but
that they really do fit some specified person, and are not merely
thrown out at a venture. Many people have had experiences
of this kind and know that true descriptions can be given ; and
from what he says later in his article it appears that Dr. Jacks
must really know it too ; so we had better assume the fact
—
at any rate for the sake of argument—and discuss how it is to
be accoimted for.
Dr. Jacks suggests two alternatives, and deals with each in
such a way as to condemn them both :
(1) that the departed person actually retains his appearance,
in every minute detail
;
(2) that he consciously " builds up " or depicts himself as
he remembers himself, or rather as he thinks the sitter will
remember him ; after somewhat the same fashion, we may
suppose, as an artist is able to paint a posthumous portrait.
Finding objection to both of these hypotheses, Dr. Jacks falls
back upon his own idea that the mind of the sitter is telepathi-
cally read, so that the description given naturally agrees with
the sitter's own memory of the person who is being described.
This is a hypothesis which has frequently suggested itself to
many an enquirer, but it is not free from difficulties ; and they
are difficulties which accumulate in force as experience grows.
It is always a hypothesis to be borne in mind, there may always
be some element or trace of this mind-reading faculty in operation,
and I would not deny that with some mediums it may possibly
be the dominant method.
But I have not myself come across mediums of this kind
—
at least not among those with whom I have had anything like
extensive experience,—and hence gradually the hypothesis has
retired into the background of my mind, after the manner of
working hypotheses in physical science which are frequently found
out of harmony with facts.
I will adduce one or two instances which cannot reasonably
be explained in this way :
(a) Suppose a person is being described, whom the sitter
takes for one person Y, while he really is another person Z.
A number of the particulars given seem to fit Y, so that Y
comes to the forefront of the hearer's mind ; and though
Personal Appearance of the Departed. 215
there are many doubtful points and a few wrong ones, yet
these are readily attributed to error.
Then come messages which seem rather puzzling and in-
coherent, until something occurs which makes it flash on the
mind of the sitter that the ostensible communicator is not
Y at all, but Z. The things said then become coherent and
intelligible ; and on subsequently looking back at the personal
description, as taken down in the record, the details given
are found to be practically all correct now that they are
applied to Z, i.e. to a person who had not previously been
in the sitter's mind.
In so far as this is an imaginary case it proves nothing, but
I could hunt up records which closely correspond to the account
here given : and meanwhile I will ask Dr. Jacks whether \\\ his
opinion such a case, if established, would be fatal to his mind-
reading explanation, or whether he can see some loophole, such
for instance that it is the unconscious or dream stratum of the
mind that is being read, and that the sitter's conscious thoughts
are irrelevant. This may be plausible ; but then crops up a
second difficulty which I wish to adduce, and which I will
illustrate by another hypothetical case :
(6) Suppose a perfectly unknown person is being described,
one whom the sitter has never seen ; and suppose he is
ultimately told to take messages from this stranger to a
friend or acquaintance ; and suppose that on taking the
message, and showing the description, it is recognised as
correctly representing the recipient's memory of the com-
municator. I ask whether this, if established, would serve as
a crucial test against the validity of the mind-reading hypo-
thesis, or whether Dr. Jacks would wish to strain the tele-
pathic hypothesis into reading the mind of some disconnected
but specified and relevant person not present at all.
By these and similar experiences I have myself felt the ordinary
telepathic hypothesis break down : it becomes more and more
far-fetched as experience grows. Thus gradually has the mind-
reading hypothesis drifted into the background, in my own case ;
and many obscure observations have caused me to postulate,
as a working hypothesis of an admittedly vague and unsatis-
factory kind, a third hypothesis differing from the (1) and (2)
of Dr. Jacks. It does not differ toto coelo from hypothesis (2),
216 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct,1918.
that of the artist consciously portraying a person's appearance,
but it definitely relegates the power to the unconscious rather
than to the conscious action of the mind,— if "mind" in such case
is a correct term.
It does not differ in revolutionary fashion even from hypothesis
(1) that the permanent appearance of the departed is somehow
similar to his bodily appearance here, though it lays no stress on
this as an explanation of mediumistic description, it only seeks
to apprehend the truth underlying the fact of recognisability by
friends and relations M'hen they too pass over or are in the act
of dying.
The hypothesis No. 3, which I have gradually been constrained
somewhat reluctantly and provisionally to adopt, is the permanent
existence in humanity of a kind of materialising power aldn to
the materialising power which undoubtedly we possess here.
For undoubtedly we have somehow constructed the body which
we now possess. How we have done it, none of us knows. Con-
spicuously its shape and peculiarities do not depend on the kind
of food with which it has been supplied, so long as it was whole-
some, but on the guiding or controlling soul or psychic entity
which has put the particles together and built them up. The
operation has been absolutely unconscious, just as unconscious
as the formg,tion of a bird's feather or the corolla of a flower ;
but it has been accomplished. And if any part of us survives,
I see no reason why this constructive or organising ability should
not survive too. I consider that the whole character and per-
sonality survive ; and I conjecture that our present association
with a certain shape and special features is a type or sample
of something permanent. Our body may not be describable
exactly as part of our character, but it may correspond to the
form which any outward manifestation or material display of the
personality must inevitably take.
Given any continued power of acting on matter at all—which
IS admittedly a considerable demand only to be justified by actual
facts—then I should say that the simplest hypothesis is that we
have still to act upon it in the old accustomed way ; not because
we are consciously attending to what we are doing, not because
we remember our appearance and are artistically constructing a
portrait image, but because the very act of re-associating ourselves
with matter inevitably executes itself along the old familiar
channels, so that the bodily representation which results has a
Oct., 1918. Personal Ajypearance of the Departed. 217
well-defined shape and definite features for precisely the same
reason (whatever that may be) that the old material presentation
had them.
It is no use marvelling at the completeness of the representa-
tion. If it differs at all it might differ completely, and be nothing
like even a human being; it might be like nothing on earth, and
be indescribable. As to that we must be guided by the facts.
I see no a priori reason for supposing any bodily representation
possible ;
but, if certain statements are true, the thing occurs ;
and all that we are now trying to do is to consider the least
forced and most plausible working hypothesis concerning it.
"WTien I speak of a materialising faculty, T mean simply the
faculty—quite unconscious though it be—-which put together the
body here out of atoms of matter. Where matter is no longer
available, it might be that this particular faculty sank into
abeyance. But it seems equally possible that it will exert itself
on something else, say on ether ; indeed some think that it has
already so exerted itself and that our etherial counterpart already
exists, along with our flesh body, though naturally it makes
no impression on our purely material senses. They are not open
to direct etherial impressions, save for a certain short range of
rapid quivers 400-700 milliou million per second, which, when
received by the retina, impress us as light.
T\Tiether in the person of a medium some portion of matter
is temporarily available for real materialising purposes, I know
not. It is suggestive that so-caUed " materialisations," which can
be seen by ordinary persons, can only occur in the presence of
specially constituted people : from some of whom there is a
growing body of evidence that something material emanates.
But all this is far from conclusive at present, and is very
little understood even when accepted. Fortunately for our present
purpose we need not enter these more obscure regions, except as
seeing in them an instructive indication for future possibilities
of acquirmg knowledge.
All that we have now to explain is the impression of something
like bodily presence produced on the mind of a medium with
sufficient psychic power to be aware of it when receiving com-
mimications.
That bodily presence, as described, is like the old one : and
I say that this is due to a persistent constructive ability
—
that same unconscious activity as was responsible for the old
218 Journcd of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1918.
bodily form,—and that this accompanyiag activity unconsciously
composes a sort of semi material framework for the conscious
communication or message which the person concerned is desirous
of sending.
Reverting to a few minor points in Dr. Jacks's article, I will
deal with them only briefly. He constracts a difficulty about
age, and says that if you say a man looks 60 it means that
he must have been 50 and will arrive at 70. I deny the necessity
of this, for an appearance. One can legitimately say that a
portrait is of a man about 60, without holding the belief that
the representation varies with the lapse of time. A portrait also
may be clean shaven without necessarily having had to use a
razor.
It is true that most of us have an indistinct idea of our own
appearance,—many people are not well acquainted with tieir
profile, for instance, though they can see it if they place two
mirrors at right-angles,—but few, of the male sex at any rate,
take the trouble to study their appearance.
But the conscious memory has nothing to do with the repro-
duction of a bodily appearance. We have no conscious con-
structive power. If we had consciously to construct a little finger,
or a lock of ' hair^ or even a pimple, we should be as puzzled
as if we were constrained consciously to digest our food or
superintend the circulation of our blood.
" The idea of being able to represent ourselves as another saw
us is," as Dr. Jacks says, " flagrantly absurd," if the idea is that
the operation is to be performed conscioiisly. Dr. Jacks's whole
article seems to me to over-emphasise our conscious activities as
if they were the only ones. So, in his salient paragraph on
page 189,
" To reproduce their appearance in detail, as we knew it
in this life, the spirits must (1) have known exactly how
they looked to us, and (2) be able lo remember this in their
present existence."
I say that the verb " must " is logically " defective." I wish
to evade both horns of the dilemma and take refuge in purely
subconscious activity.
There are one or two other less pronovmced, but as I think
equally erroneous, assumptions made in the article.
«
Oct., 1918. Personal Appearance of the Departed. 219
When a medium fails to get a name through readily it does
not at all follow that the communicator has forgotten his own
name. The medium never represents the fact in that way ; he
is always represented as trying to give it to the medium, but
it is said that she or her control is sometimes unable to catch it.
It may be that this corresponds to some sort of truth, for I have
noticed that she often catches something like it, and sometimes
pronounces it in a whisper correctly, yet when uttered aloud it
somehow goes wrong.
I have had something of perhaps the same sort of experience
myself, with a half-known air. I can, so to speak, " hear " it
and feel it in my head, and yet the larynx fails to reproduce it.
With better known tunes the difficulty of course disappears,
but it seems as if weak mental memory or influence is exhausted
in the effort to switch on that part of the brain which controls
the voice.
In any case proper names are remarkably meaningless things,
purely artificial conventional codes ; and that sort of thing is
always hard to get through any sort of instrument, whether it
be a telephone or another. There seems no element of personality
or character, or anything permanent, about an ordinary person's
name ;
and, to me at least, the bodily appearance of persons in
the flesh, or the hearing of their voice, even when they are well
known, often fails to call up in ray mind any kind of recollection of
their name.
That names are difficult things to get through, may or may
not be surprising, but here again we must be guided by the facts.
Some mediums are good at names : some are bad at them. But
in no case are we entitled to ascribe the failure as implying any
forgetfulness on the part of the communicator. That is the
inference which Dr. Jacks draws, but I venture to regard it as
an unjustifiable one.
Dr. Jacks may object that I have not definitely said what
the image or appearance described by the medium really is.
For a very good reason : T do not know. Sometimes 1 think
of it as akin to a portrait—let us say a mental one—impressed
on the mind of the medium as a concomitant portion or epiphe-
nomenal part of the whole message ; sometimes I think of it as
an incipient materialisation, a temporary collocation of atoms of
matter arranged so as to produce a likeness. But taking the
most materialistic view, as in the extreme cases testified to by
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1918.
Sir William Crookes. when the apparition could be touched a&
well as seen, and when for the time it had all the apparent
attributes of a real person : I still only think of it as temporary,
and therefore as not amenable to any such difficulties as growth
of hair, or ageing, or any other changes corresponding to lapse
of time ; I postulate only a static representation for temporary
purposes. .
' :
If I am asked whether the hypothesis is not a difficult one,
I reply yes, a profoundly difficult one. I know nothing more
incredible than a temporary materialisation. Even the sub-
permanent ones with wliich we are familiar—our own bodies
—
are puzzling enough from the philosophic point of view : few
people are hardy enough to say that they understand the inter-
action of mind and matter.
I see nothing for it but to be guided by the facts : and if,
or when, the evidence for a power of temporary materialisation,
of various grades of completeness, is good enough, I am not
going to close my mind to its reception. Most familiar or
commonplace phenomena are essentially surprising, and feel in-
credible when probed and analysed. We have no ultimate clue
to the processes of Nature. We accept without too curious an
enquiry certain postulates in science, and our system of Imowledge
is based upon them. Twilight is more mysterious than noon,
but is not truly any more incomprehensible : paradoxes are
appropriate to half-knowledge.
Indeed I fully believe that when our knowledge is greater
many of the exceptional difficulties surrounding the subject will
appear to lessen, and that ultimately the whole of psychic pheno-
mena will begin to put on a commonplace air and fade into
the light of common day.
Oliver Lodge.
June, 1918.
(II.) By Professor James H. Hyslop.
Dr. Jacks has opened up a large and very complex question,
and I shall not go into details in referring to it. I only wish
first to say that my experience, which has been large, agrees
with that of Dr. Jacks in regard to the fact that mediumistic
descriptions of the dead seem to represent them, not as they
Oct., 1918. Personal Appearance of the Departed. 22t
knew themselves, but as others knew them. While he was
livmg I suggested this to Mr. Myers in the only letter I ever
wrote him, though I had no such evidence as I have now, and
he was not inclined to believe it. But the hypothesis has been
confirmed by much experience since then, and though it does not
go very far in the explanation of the phenomena, it coincides
with other facts that we know. But I do not think that the
casual suggestion of Mr. Jacks that they appear as the sitter
knew them will account for all the instances. I have had correct
descriptions when the sitter had never known the person and
had to inquire about the truth of them. But Dr. Jacks probably
had telepathy in mind when he made the suggestion, and while
telepathy between the living will not always explain the facts,
it involves probably a correct conception of at least a part of
the process. I do not think it is all of it. I shall mention a
few points which may help him and others on the way through
this tangled wilderness. I have no theory as yet to explain
the phenomena satisfactorily and must not be supjjosed as
suggesting anything but the most tentative hypotheses.
(1) I have noticed that the description of physical objects
involves the same phenomena.
(2) Apparitions without the intermediation of psychics exhibit
the same phenomena.
(3) The character reading of Mrs. Chenoweth [a medium with
whom Dr. Hyslop works] shows the same peculiar features of
the phenomena.
(4) One description of my deceased brother represented him
as changing instantaneously from a child to a man, one apparition
being symbolic of the age at which he died and the other the
age he would be now.
So much for the facts which confixm the impression of Dr.
Jacks and show complications beyond mere appearances to psychics.
Now for suggestions as to the explanation.
(1) For years Mrs. Chenoweth thought the appearances she
saw in her subliminal state were real, but she finally found
they were mental pictures. . . .
(2) In our own dreams, hallucinations, deliria, and hypnotic
apparitions we take the phenomena as real, showing that sub-
liminal creation or " building up," to use the phrase of Dr. Jacks,
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1918.
involves apparent reality to us, the same judgment which the
entranced medium passes on the apparitions passing before her,
only in the mediumistic cases they are transferTed, not wholly
created by the psychic, though I have no doubt that the sub-
conscious is a factor in the result. But the main point is to
note the sense of reality which the psychic has interfused with the
habit of impersonation, legitimate impersonation in such instances.
The "'
control " is often the most important factor in the
phenomena, so that this circumstance complicates the matter
still more. This " control," I find, often misinterprets the appari-
tions, so that we have reason to believe that they may sometimes
be only symbolic. . . .
I am not going to give detailed facts supporting this, nor
would it be desirable here, as I am not so sure of the explanation
as might seem. I am only suggesting some complications not
^
remarked by .Dr. Jacks which may lead to some theoretical
explanation that I have not yet discovered. The whole matter
is much more complicated than the superficial appearance would
indicate, and that is implied by the perplexities which Dr. Jacks
remarks. But I suspect that the view, suggested by Swedenborg
in his doctrine that the next world is a m.ental state, a view
closely allied to Kanto-Hegelian idealism, may be a clue to the
production of the appearance, and the objective sense of reality
in the psychic, with the liability of error in the interpretation
of the phantasms by the control and the psychic, may suggest
the direction in which further study may be made. Compare
some of the paradoxic and, to the layman, perplexing statements
of Raymond in his communications to Sir Oliver Lodge.
(III.) THE SPIRITUAL VALUE OF NAMES, i -
By Dr. F. C. S. Schiller.
Dr. Jacks's problem about the personal appearance of the
departed is as ingenious as is his wont, and worthy of serious
consideration by psychical researchers as well as by spiritists.
I cannot feel, however, that the solution he suggests is quite
adequate. He argues forcibly that the source of the knowledge
displayed by mediums of the personal appearance of friends
of the sitters must come from the sitters' minds, because the
descriptions are not such as spirits could give of themselves,
Oct., 1918. Personal Appearance of the Departed. 223
and because there is often great difficulty about giving the names.
But is it not equally surprising on his theory that this difficulty
should exist ? The sitter's mind can, it seems, supply the medium's
with the most minute and detailed accounts of a departed friend's
appearance, and yet it too boggles over the name of the friend
whom it remembers so well.
I would venture, therefore, upon a tentative suggestion that
the '
building-up ' theory might be modified to meet the case.
It is doubtless true that in general we are ignorant of, or deluded
about, our personal appearance. But who are '
we ' ? Plainly
the self Dr. Jacks convicts of ignorance is the conscious self.
And, as plainly, there is more to us than that. There is within
us that which not only knows, but also moulds, our personal
appearance. It is this power which forms our whole body, and
remembers to grow again " the bit of hair sticking out at the
back of the head," however often the conscious self has it ampu-
tated by the hairdresser's ruthless shears. Might we not then
ascribe to it the power of communicating with the subconscious
regions of the medium's mind, which the evidence seems to
demand ? True we know but little as yet about this '
part ' of
the total self, because the conscious self does not control it.
The sciences all fight shy of it. Metaphysic has contented itself
with barren dialectics about the Self, and has not yet seriously
raised the question
—
Who then am I ? Physiology has only
exhibited a priori dogmatism by assuming that of course the
explanation must be physical. Psychology is only just approaching
the experimental study of the self, and beginning to recognize
the complex stratification of what the metaphysician took to
be a '
simple spiritual substance.' Psychical Research is un-
prejudiced, but still groping. In this case we are doubtless
on the track of something intimate that lives at such a depth
below the line of consciousness as to be profoundly unafiected
by anything so intellectual as a name, which is plainly a device
for dealing with the external relations of an organism with others.
And after all their names sit lightly enough upon even the
conscious selves, which often enough find it socially expedient,
customary, or honorific to change them. I conclude, then,
that, although a natural, it is a mistaken, '
nominalism '
to regard
the giving of the name as essential to a spiritual identification,
and an indispensable guarantee of good faith.
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Researcli. Oct., 1918.
Dr. Jacks' article in the June number of the Journal has
evidently excited great interest, and we have been compelled
by the limits of our space to select among the letters concerning
it which we have received. It is, however, with less reluctance
that we refrain from printing several as we think that the three
commimications printed above cover the greater part of the
ground taken by our correspondents.
It is perhaps a little surprising that no one has called attention
to the fact that the theoretical discussion is, in its essentials,
not new to the Society. It necessarily arose in connection with
the view of apparitions taken by the authors of Plmntasms of the
Living, and much of what Gurney there says about dreams and
hallucinations generally, bears on the subject. In particular
parts of the following sections would be found of interest in
this connection : the first sections of each of the Chapters VIII.,
IX., X., XI. ;
Chap. X. §S 5 and 6 ;
Chap. XII. §§ 6, 7, 8
;
Chap. XVIII. § 7.
Any attempt to summarise these passages would be out of
place here, but we may very briefly call attention to two points.
The appearances seen with closed eyes by mediums
—
e.g. Mrs.
Piper or Mrs. Leonard—are evidently like dream images, which
as Gurney maintains for reasons given, are of the same nature
as waking hallucinations. Clearly also these images are for
the medium similar in kind whether veridical or non-veridical.
She does not distinguish, and no one probably will maintain
that they are always veridical. But is not the existence of
the non-veridical images a serious objection to Sir Oliver Lodge's
hypothesis of g'Masi-materialisation ? A valid theory as to the
nature of these images must surely cover all the cases from
veridical to non-veridical, and from dream-images to waking
hallucinations.
Then again, as regards Dr. Jacks' main point, Gurney shows
that just as in a few cases details in telepathic apparitions must
evidently be contrijbuted by the percipient's mind, so in a few
others it is equally clear that they must be derived from the
agent ;
that, as he puts it, {ojp. cit. Chap. XII. § 8) "a ready
made concrete image, and not a mere idea, has been transferred
from one to the other." He recognises the difficulty, urged by Dr.
Jacks, of supposing that the agent has such a definite image of
himself in his mind, but thinks that a certain sense of one's
own aspect probably always exists at the background of conscious-
Oct , 1918. Cases. 225
ness," and adds that "this it is which, in rare but well-attested cases,
projects the apparition ... of a person's own self or '
double.'
"
E. M. S. (Editor pro tern.).
CASES.
Two Telepathic Dreams.
We have received the following accoimts of two dreams
from an Associate of the Society, who desires to remain
anonjonous, and whom we will therefore call Mrs. C. As
Mrs. C. points out, they appear to iEustrate two forms of
telepathy. In the first there was conscious direction of the
supposed agent's thought to the percipient. In the second
there seems to have been subconscious leakage. Mrs. C.'s
account of the dreams was sent to us on March 11, 1918.
No. 1.
L. 1218.
In the early morning of Jan. 13th, 1918, my daughter V.
had a vivid dream of Arthur S., an old school-friend of her
brother " G." Upon leaving school, this yoimg fellow had gone
out to Canada where he purchased a clearing and built himself
a shack, and being joined there later by his parents they had
settled down on their own homestead for good.
Arthur S. had thus virtually gone out of our lives, though
he had written from time to time at rare intervals, the last
occasion being some two years ago, on the death of his friend
" G." to whom he was much attached.
We knew that neither he nor his brother had been able to join
the Army as they were rimning the homestead for their parents,
and considered this to be their first duty.
In her dream, V. saw Arthur S. very clearly, dressed in khaki,
and was impressed that he had some special news to give us
—
she also heard him say—(by impression), " But I can never
forget my old friend '
G.'
"
On coming down to breakfast the next day, V. asked us to
^ess of whom she had dreamt, adding that it was the last person
we should ever think of.
Two days later, on the 15th Jan., V. received a letter from
Arthur S. dated Jan. 10th, but bearing the post-mark of the
14th from Seaford, Sussex. In it he told her of his father's
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct.. 1!)18.
death, a year ago, which had set him free to join up ; also
that he had lately come to England and had just got married.
His letter ended up with these words ; "I often think of my
old friend '
G.' and keep his noble sacrifice before me. I have
met a lot of people but I never forget '
G.' . .
."
The dreamer's account, received April 6, 1918, is as follows :
On the morning of Jan. 13th, I awoke from a vivid dream
in which I saw Arthur S. standing in front of me, in khaki-
He looked pleased and said he had some important news to
tell me—giving no details, but I heard him say, " I can never
forget my old friend [G]."—Then I awoke.
At breakfast I mentioned my dream without going into details,
in fact I wanted the others to guess of whom I had dreamt as
it was a very out of the way person. Mother asked me not
to give any details imtil the same evening, which I did in the
presence of my sister.
Three days later, by the very last post, I received a letter
from Arthur S., dated the 10th, though bearing the postmark of
the 14th from Seaford. We were all very surprised to hear
that he was in England, that he had joined up and had just
got married. Almost the last sentence in his letter contained
these words re my brother, " I often think of my old friend
[G.]. ... I have met a lot of people, but I never forget [G.].''
[Signed with full name.]
lu reply to questions, Mrs. C. wrote on April 4, 1918 :
(1) The dreamer can think of nothing which could have recalled
Arthur S. to her memory about the time of her dream. She
believed him then to be in Canada " for good," and had neither
heard of or from him for close on two years. [She had, so
Mrs. C. informs us, sent him as usual a Christmas card or greeting
to Canada in December.] She has never, to her knowledge,
dreamed of him before, and had no personal interest in him
beyond the fact of his past friendship with her brother.
(2) The dream was not recorded by me until the next day,
Monday, in the hope of further details coming through.
(3) It is my usual practice to jot down rough notes of any
dream of interest on first hearing it, as we are constantly getting
them.
(4) At my request, the full account of the dream was not
Oct., 1918. Cases. 227
given me until Sunday evening (in tlie presence of my other
daughter), neither did I know until then whom it concerned—
merely that V. had dreamed vividly of a friend and was impressed
that he had news to give us.
In a later letter Mrs. C. adds :
My diary notes are usually very brief and scribbled in pencil.
On this occasion being very pressed for time I handed the book
to my daughter saying, " You had better enter the dream your-
self." She did so there and then, as follows: "[Initial] dreamt
morning of Jan. 13th S[ ] came round, in khaki, with some
special message to tell us. Said he would never forget his old
friend, [G.]."
Mrs. and Miss C. have kindly allowed Mrs. Sido\vick to
see the letter from Arthur S., so that she can corroborate
the accuracy of the quotation from it and its date, January 10,
1918. Unfortunately the envelope is torn, and the postmark
no longer visible. Mrs. Sidgv.dck has also seen the diary, or
rather note book, and verified the quotation.
No. 2.
L. 1219.
On Jan. 16th, 1918, I spent the afternoon with an old friend,
Mme. R., who lives alone at the top of a high block of flats ; and
who, in spite of frail health, and enforced seclusion, still takes
the liveliest interest in the outer world and its doings. In the
course of our conversation, my friend asked me if I remembered
Dr. X., to whom she had introduced me more than a year ago,
and who had since married. She then told me that she had
seen a good deal of his wife, who had been with her one afternoon
when a bad air-raid suddenly commenced. Greatly alarmed, Mrs. X.
had hurried home but was taken ill on arrival there, and very
soon after, gave birth—prematurely—to twins, while the raid
was still in progress. I did not mention a word of this to anyone
on my return home ; in fact the whole story went completely
out of my mind, so many other topics having been touched
upon by Mme. R. later.
The next morning, my daughter V. told me that she had
had such a strange dream. She thought that there was a very
bad air-raid going on, which she and I seemed to be watching
from the windows of a very lofty room, and in her arms was
a very tiny baby wrapped in blankets which I was helping her
228 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Oct., 1918.
to tend. There Vv'as only one other occupant of the room, a
woman, who was walking up and down carrying another small
infant, also wrapped in blankets.
All the time V. was vividly conscious of the noise of the
air-raid and of the flashes of light, etc., from the big windows,
combined with a feeling of intense alarm.
The dreamer's account of this second dream was received
by us on April 6, 1918, as follows :
On Wednesday, the 16th Jan., I dreamt as follows :
*"
There was a dreadful air-raid in progress. Mother and 1 were
in a lofty building watching it and at the same time attending
to a very tiny baby, which I was holding in my arms, wrapped
in a blanket.
There was also another woman in the room carrying a tiny
baby, and she seemed very agitated as she walked up and down
with it.
In my dream the raid was very bad, and I could see flashes
of light on the windows and was nearly deafened with the noise
of guns and the humming of the aeroplanes. I remember feeling
terrified at the time, as it was quite the worst raid I had ever
been in. I told mother this the next morning, when she at
once said, " Oh, but this is what Mme. E. told me when I was
with her yesterday."'
[Signed with full name.]
In reply to enquiries. Mine. K. has Idndly written to us
confirming the fact of her having told Mrs. C, when she
called about the middle of January, of the premature birth
in December of Mrs. X.'s twins, in consec[uence of an air
raid. She writes :
Mrs. X. called on me on or about the 20th of December last.
This lady was in delicate health, and very frightened of the air raids.
She hoped there would be no raid as she felt rather poorly, but
unfortunately next day a raid did take place and my poor friend
was taken ill direttly During the night twins were born,
and as they were so long before their time things were not all
ready. In consequence the babies were wrapped in blankets as
Miss V. saw them in her dream Mrs. [C.J called to see
me about the middle of Jaiuiary and I told her all about this
sad affair.
No. CCCXLIX.—Vol. XVIII. Novembkr, 1918.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Notice of Meeting, 929
New Members and Associates, 930
Meeting of the Council,
230
Hallucinatory and other Experiences of a Young Child, - - - -
231
Correspondence : Sir Oliver Lodge, 035
Donations to Printing Fund, 236
NOTICE OF MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society
WILL BE HELD IN
THE STEINWAY HALL,
LOWER 5EYM0UR STREET, LONDON, W.
On FRIDAY, NOVEMBER i^th, 191 8. at 4.30
WHEN
Sir OLIVER LODGE
WILL SPEAK ON
''Ether and Matter, and their possible
psychical bearings."
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names
at the door. Visitors -will be admitted o„ the production of an
invitation card signed by a A/ember or Associate. Each
Member or Associate is alhnved to i?ivite one friend.
230 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1918.
NEW MEMBEES AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printrd in Black Type.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Bodley, Mrs., Exton, Lopsham, Devon.
Cory, Mrs., Tamnrisk, Selsey, Sussex.
Duveen, Mrs. GeoSrey, Strat-ton Street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Hichens, Mrs. Oyril, Summertree, Nr. Herstmonceux, Sussex.
Jekyll, Miss Doris, War Hospital, Huddei'slicld.
Kellett, Mrs. Kelsall, The Bungalow, Guildford Road, Fleet, Hants.
Macfarlane, Mrs. Bcott B., Torpedo Station, Newport, !?,!., U.S.A.
Martindsle, Miss B., 4 Piazza Paganica, Rome, Italy.
Morley, Mrs. Evelyn, 7 Green Street, Park Lane, London, W. L
Ninnis, Roger P., M.B., H.M.S. Nepfmu', c/o G.P.O.. London.
Smith, Eight Hon. J. Parker, P.O., J.P., D.L., 41 Drumsheugh
Gardens, Edinburgh.
Stradling, Captain R. E., R.E., 6 North Street, Bedminster, Bristol,
Sturge, 'VY. Allen, M.V.O., M.D., F.R.O.P., Icklingham Hall,
Mildenhall, Suffolk.
Adamson, Thomas, 16 Dominion Building, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada.
Anderson, Mrs. Henry C, East Morningside House, Clinton Road,
Edinburgh.
Baretti, Mrs., 156 Mill Lane, West Hampstead, London, N.W. 6.
Barney, Alfred, 8 Carlingford Road, London, N.W. .3.
Betton, C. Steuart, 50 Stratford Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Crawford, Mrs. W. C, 1 Lockharton Gardens, Colinton Road,
Edinburgh.
Currey, Mrs., 29 Dover Street, Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
FooTNER, Mrs., 187 Ebury Street, London. S.W. 1.
HuriHES, Professor Alfred, 29 George Road, Edgbaston, liir-
mingham.
Lucy, Miss Mabicl, 1 Laurence Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Mackintosh, Robert, .3 Frognal I^ane, London, N.W. 3.
McLaren, Rev. David J., The Manse, Trinity Gask, Auchterarder,
N.H.
ScHOFF, Wilfred H., 110 Montgomery Avenue, Cynwyd, Pa., U.S. .4.
Scott, Miss A. !»., Darent Hulme, Sboreham, Nr. Sevenoaks.
Thurston, Rev. Herbert, 31 Farm Street, Berkeley Square,
London, W. 1.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The 157th Meeting of the Council was held at 20 Hanover
S'j[uare, London, W., on Thursday, October I7th, 1918, at
3.15 p.m.: TfiE Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour in the chair.
There were also present : Mr. AV. W. Baggally, Sir William
Nov., 1918. Meeting of the Council. 231
Barrett, Eev. M. A. Bayfield, Mr. J. G. Piddington, Mr. Sidney
C. Scott, and Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ; also Mrs. Salter, Editor,
and Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read
and signed as correct.
Fourteen new Members and fifteen new Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The Monthly Accounts for July, August, and September, 1918,
were presented and taken as read.
HALLUCINATORY AND OTHER EXPERIENCES
OF A YOUNG CHILD.
The following notes of her child's sayings, sent to us in April,
1918, by an Associate of the Society, are not offered as
evidence of telepathy, though there are certainly indications
that telepathy occurred, and even that there may have been
communication from the dead. We print the narrative chiefly
as an interesting record of what a child said between the ages
of 2{ and ^\ about her experiences, noted at the tune by her
mother. Such a record, consecutive and careful, cannot but be
valuable. The present one seems to exemplify three things,
which there is otherwise reason to suspect are fairly common
in quite healthy children, namely (1) liability to sensory hallu-
cinations, (2) possession of telepathic powers, (3) the tendency
of a child's hallucinations to take a grotesque form either as
to appearance or position—a form, that is, not in accordance
with ordinary experience of external things. On this last point
see the " Report on the Census of Plallucinations " {Proceedings,
Vol. X., pp. 1-J9, 150), where the fact is attributed to a child's
idea of what is likely to occur bemg less clearly formed than
that of adults. As to the fii-st two pomts, there are, so far
as we are aware, no statistics available. One can only judge,
from what mothers tell one as to the matter-of-fact way in
which children accept what seem to be waking hallucinations
of the senses, that these experiences are hi some cases more
or less habitual, just as dreams are.^ And sunilarly as regards
telepathy, the instances one hears of from time to time give
.one the impression that children would often be very good
1 In the case here recorded, however, the mother writes that " the experiences
are evidently not very freij[ueiit, and always rather surprise " the child.
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1918.
subjects for telepathic experiments if such experiments could be
tried without risk of doing any harm. A recent instance of a child's
spontaneous viridical impression was, it will be remembered,
printed in the Journal for June with references to other cases.
The record, slightly abridged, is as follows :
D. was aged three years two months when her father was
killed in October, 1916. She was not told anything about it for
more than a year afterwards, so that most of the experiences I
am recording happened before she knew of his death, and she
thought of him always as in France
—" taking care of soldiei's."
This was all she knew about the war.
She is quite a normal child, very observant, a great sense of
humour, excellent health from babyhood, not at all precocious,
except in being rather more articulate than most children of her
age, so that she has been able to express herself—has told me
what she saw. Probably most children are just as much aware of
the unseen world at that age, when their minds are so fresh. . . .
But then not all children at the age of three are able or arc
sufficiently interested in their impressions to express them. So that
it may be of some value and interest to record the things she
has said to me.
Noil. 1915. Once or twice before his death, when he was away,
she had said things to me about what he was doing and thinking
which afterwards seemed to me, on gettmg his letters, to be
cases of telej)athy, and before she was three used to tell me of
" people moving on the ceiling, all colours," as she lay in bed.
1 was going to the station with her one day in March, 1916,
to see her off to the country, as I was going abroad myself, and
she drew my attention to a " red lady, all red," who, she said,
was with us. I was wearing a red dress, so asked her if she was
like me, " Oh no, Mummy," she said, " yours is a wed dress—this
lady's all wed, a wed face."
Oct. 1916. About a week before his death we were playing in
the garden after tea and she suddenly rushed at me in a sort of
panic (an absolutely unknown thing for her—she did not know
fear then), and clutching me, said, " Oh, Mummy, I'm so frightened ;
you looked as if you were going to jump over the sun." This
made an impression on me, and I wondered then what it was she
had seen, or if it was only the general sense of eeriness that an
October evening sometimes brings.
When the news came that he was killed, I did not tell her.
We went on talking of him and playing at being Daddy, his
horses, or his soldiers, as usual. A morning or two after she was
sitting beside me in bed, before we were called, she was pretending
to be Daddy and driving his horses. The room half-dark, before
the curtains were drawn. Suddenly she remarked, looking up,
" There's the real Daddy on the ceiling," reflectively adding, " It
looks like him, anyhow." I accepted it as a matter of fact, as
Nov., 1918. Hallucinatory avd other Experiencef<. 233
I did not want to make her think it was anything extraordinary,
or clever of her to see him. She did not seem to want to talk
about it.
The next night I was lying, between sleep and waking, a sort
of state that was frequent with me just then. I fancied—fancy
is not the right word, but it is almost impossible to find the right
word for such a state ;
directly one tries to translate such an
intangible sensation into words it becomes in a sense untrue
—
it was a sort of nebulous consciousness ; a " sensing " of something
unseen
—
not a vision or a dream. I fancied, then, that two people
stood beside my bed, and that they were discussing together
whether I could be taken over to him, or whether I must live on.
I wanted to share his inteuser life, and go too, and I had never
had a qualm about leaving D. Then D. said, quite naturally, and
in her sleep, " You wont go away from me, will you, Mummy ?
"
One morning, again on waking beside me, she said she " saw
Daddy upside down" and was much exercised in her mind at this
imusual position.
I may say that I knew nothing of spiritualism—rather hated
its jargon—had never read a book about it, and rather laughed
at it. Even now I was afraid to read a book for fear it might
obscure or muddle my ovra sensations of the unseen.
After that we moved to London, where D. slept with me till my baby
boy was born—about a month later. During that time (Jan. 1917)
she saw " Daddy's boot " on the wall ; another day " a little
black man on the ceiling." Yet another day " There's a red lady,
like fire, all red, coming down on me ; I hope she wont come
right dovm," with a little gasp of apprehension. She never seems
at all inclined to talk about the things she has seen, and I do
not question her. I just accepted what she told me, and we
wondered together why I could not see them too. I had thought
perhaps her visions of her father might be the result of telepathy,
from my own thoughts of him, but I certainly had never enter-
tained any thoughts of the coloured lady and gentleman mentioned
above.
After my son was born I did not have D. in my room at
night, and had not so much opportunity of hearing of anything
she might have seen. In July, 1917, she was very ill for three
days after an anaesthetic, in London, and was nursed by "N.,"
my old nurse, not her own Nanny. When she recovered we went
down to C——,
leaving N. in London. She was playing in the
orchard with me ; I was sitting on the grass, she on my lap.
Suddenly she looked up and then said, " I saw N. there, do
you know. Mummy, looking over your shoulder—like Daddy." I
asked her what she looked like. " Oh you know N., Mummy, purple
hat, purple dress," rather impatient with me for such an absurd
question. The following week I saw " N.," who told me how very
anxious she had been about D., and unable to get the thought of
her out of her head (though, of course, she was perfectly well again).
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1918.
As she was getting older, and I could not help her overhearing
people talk, 1 felt I must tell her, beginning gradually in answer to
some of her questions in August, 1917, and in October told her
everything. She was dreadfully upset at the idea of his being
hurt, more than of anything, and not having him come back
just the same as before. So from now her attitude is different.
She is deeply interested in " spirits," talking constantly of him
and to him, and speculating as to his being always there, but she
has the real scientific attitude, and keeps a perfectly clear line
between her own ideas and fancies and those experiences which
seem to come from outside her. It was not till Dec. 30 that I
heard her mention any of the latter sort ; then she said, " I saio
a sjnrit yesterday. Mummy, when I was having my rest. It was
Daddy. I didn't know it was him till he said '
Is that you, D.'
"
The next day she told me again, and I asked her where he had
been. " There, hanging over the jug N gave you." The jug
in question was standing on the chest of drawers at the foot of
the bed. The convincing things to me this time were [a) her
saying " while I had my rest," as we always talked of him at
night when we were together, and thought of him as possibly
coming then, and (6) her so minutely remembering, or appearing
to remember, the exact spot where she had seen him.
On waking she nearly always said " Daddy " the fiist thing.
Once when I myself had been feeling very far off him, she said on
waking, " Mummy, we haven't spoken to Daddy."
Dec. 1917. Once she asked me why he only came at night. I
said he didn't. I thought he came any time. Perhaps when we
were asleep jiart of us would go to him. Yes," she said, " like when
I think I'm out of bed and I'm really in bed. I often feel like
that." Query—a dream—or really a sensation.
Referring some time after to the last time she saw him she
said she was sure she would remember if he talked to her in her
sleep " because I remembered before when he came while 1 was
having my rest."
Feb. 2nd, 1918. One night she was lymg talking to me about him.
Suddenly she said, " D'you know. Mummy, Daddy's so close to
me I can't helj) laughing," with a sort of little gasp slie always
gives when something very unexpected occurs. " I believe he's
got right inside me ; don't you feel him. Mummy ? If you got
right on the top of me he might be able to hug us both." " A
sort of nasty-nice feeling," she said, " makes me feel crinkly all
over. I believe' I shall be uncomfortable all night."
Feb. 20. Evidently she had this feeling again to-night. I was
singing to her, sitting on the bed, in the dark. She said she
wanted to talk to Daddy, and began doing so. Then said, " T don't
like him to come too close down to me, it makes me "—a pause and
deep thought
—"feel sort of like beginning to be sick." I asked her
how she knew it was Daddy. She said with a laugh, " Oh it's the
sort of thing he always does," in great spirits and fearfully
Nov., 1918. Halhicinatory and other Experievcef!. 235
excited about Kis having come ;
" Turn on the light, Mummy,
Iook: at my face," insisting that I should be able to see from
her face that he had been near her. (This was a very convincing
experience.)
A few days after she was deeply interested in a conversation,
looked up, said, hardly betraying interest, " There's Daddy," and
plunged again into the talk of rabbits. One day she had a fit
of jealousy of her brother and begged me to have him taken out
of the room. I didn't pay any attention to her, or make any
remark. In the evening she said, almost to herself, " Daddy can't
see P. unless we're there." ^
She says sometimes she feels a face quite close to her, and she
thinks its me, but it isn't. " When I touch it there's no skin. I
don't know if its Daddy, but I think it is. I hope he doesn't
mind my finger going through him. It doesn't hurt him, does it ?
"'
I don't know if any of these notes can be of any use. I have
jotted them down from my note-book just as they came, only
leaving out my own comments upon them: Naturally sceptical
myself, I am quite wed aware that most of the experiences ixiight
be the result of telepathy, but at the same time there does seem
to have been something more than that at work. It would be
interesting to hear what an expert in psychical things would make
of them, and what is the most likely explanation.
COERESPONDENCE.
To the Editor of the Journal of the S.P.R.
Madam,—In your Editorial Note on page 224 of the October
number of the Journal, you usefully recall attention to the laborious
and admirable work of Edmund Gurney in Phantasms of tlie
Living. I would also take the opportunity of reminding or
informing Members and Associates of the supplementary essay
of F. W. H. Myers in the same book, which takes the form of a long
and careful " Note," in the middle of Vol. II., pp. 277-316^
" On a suggested mode of psychical interaction." Crurney s
hypothesis attributes the details of a vision or vivid phantasmal
appearance mainly to the subconscious activitv of the percipient
:
whereas Myers considers that the subconscious activity of the
agent or person represented, —the person whose apparent presence
is perceived—has some influence not only in stimulating or bringing
into bare existence a dream-like impression, but in clothing it
with relevant and informing detail ;—detail which is some cases
iJn reply to enquiries, the mother says: "Except that since I told her of
her father's death we have talked of him as being constantly near us, I cannot
think of anything I could have said to account for that remark about lier babv
brother. ... I was much astonished when she said that. I had certainly never
said —or thought—of such a tiling, or anything on whicli she could base it, and
I am prett}' certain that neither her nurse or any of the servants—the only otlier
people she was in contact with—could have suggested anj^thing of the sort.'"
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Nov., 1918.
could hardly be reclaimed from the latent memory, or developed
out of the past experience, of the percipient or seer of the vision.
Myers postulates in fact some " phantasmogenetic efficacy
"
of the agent, aldn to what is testified to in the comparatively
rare but very interesting reciprocal cases of " travelling clair-
voyance." He styles the agent-percipient, who is clairvoyant
and at the same time is impressing himself on those he is
perceiving, " the clairvoyant invader." And by thus postulating
a real transmitting agency, such as may operate not only on
the mind of one percipient but on the minds of several people
all present together, he considers it possible to evade the many
difficulties which surround the postulation of any kind of objective
reality for the phantasm—a reality which group-percipience super-
ficially suggests—without having recourse to the unproven
assumption of mere contagious liallucination among otherwise
passive percipients. For this lie thinks, even if granted, would
sometimes fail to explain the facts.
It is clear that in this chapter Myers does not contemplate
with favour the semi-materialistic hypothesis tentatively and
apologetically supported' in my letter '
to the Journal, October
1918 ; he seeks to interpret the facts as mental impressions only ;
but at present I am unable to form a clear conception of how
a purely mental impression, without any kind of objective reality
even of an ethereal character, would fulfil the conditions required
and satisfy the facts recorded in the many narratives, contained
in that industriously filled storehouse, Phantasms of the Ldving,
on which he bases his appeal. —Yours faithfully, Oliver Lodge.
DONATIONS TOWARDS THE INCREASED COST
OF PRINTING.
Miss X. • £50 0 0
Mrs. Pumphrey - - - - - 10 0 0
Hubert Wales, Esq. - - - - 10 0 0
Miss Florence Upton - - -
3 3 0
Miss Radclyffe-Hall 2 2 0
Mrs. Campbell ... -
1 19 0
E. H. Barritt, Esq. 1 1 0
Mrs. Franks (annual) -
1 1 0
Miss Agnes Fry - - - -
1 1 0
Mrs. Gaskell -
'
- ] 1 0
Lady Onslow . . - -
1 1 0
R. A. RoUeston-Walker, Esq. 1 1 0
Mrs. C. C. Baker - - -
-
] 0 0
Mrs. Bulley ----- 1 0 0
Miss Mabel Day - - -
-
0 10 6
Miss Alison Ball - - - -
0 10 0
Mrs. Tait ----- 0 5 0
: £86 15 6
No. CCCL.—Vol. XVIII. December, 1918
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
Report of General Meeting, 237
Obituary : Bishop Boyd Carpenter, - . . . 238
Case : A Case of Premonition with Discussion, 239
Correspondence : The Personal Appearance of the Departed—Miss Sellers, - - 243
Reviews, 216
Supplementary Library Catalogue, 243
GENEEAL MEETING.
The 157tli General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Steinway Hall, Lower Seymour Street, on Friday, November
Loth, 1918, at 4.30 p.m. ; Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., in
the chair. Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., gave an address on
" Ether and Matter, and their possible psychical bearings."
He explained his view concerning the Ether of Space and
the physical phenomena for which it was responsible. He
claimed it as the coimecting link uniting the planets into a
solar system, and uniting the particles of a body by cohesion
into a coherent whole. He considers that matter only possesses
kinetic energy, and that the ether possesses all the static
energy—sometmaes misleadingly called potential energy, the
meaning of which is that it is potentially kinetic. This ether
energy is the energy of strain and stress as opposed to the
energy of motion. Matter alone moves ; ether alone is
strained.
The consideration of a body is incomplete unless both its
material and etherial portions or aspects are taken into account.
We are apt to attend to the one and ignore the other,
because of the sense organs we happen to possess, on which
the ether makes no impression.
Reverting to animated bodies, he made a surmise or specu-
lation that the psychic interaction which conspicuously occurred
with matter might also occur in connexion with the etherial
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1918.
concomitant ; and that if that were so, the etherial portion
would be more likely to be permanent than the material,
since all imperfections—fatigue and wearing out—belong to
matter, not to ether.
He further hazards the view that the categories of philo-
sophy have so far been incomplete, inasmuch as they include
mind and matter without explicit reference to the third
element, the ether, as an essential ingredient of totality
;
and he conceives that the introduction and the working out
of the ether's full significance, in both psychics and physics,
is a task which now lies immediately ahead. At any rate
he proposes this as a working hypothesis. It may turn out
that the ether has no psychic significance. On the other
hand, it may—as the authors of " The Unseen Universe
"
(Professors Tait and Balfour Stewart) surmised half a century
ago—have a great deal ; for it seems to him unlikely that in
the course of evolution mind shall have associated itself only
with matter and not made any use of the omnipresent con-
necting medium—the Ether of Space.
If life and mind have made use of the ether in the
smallest degree, they have probably used it extensively ; and
Sir Oliver suggests—at present only as a pure speculation—
•
that perhaps the term " spiritual body " may acquire a semi-
material or concrete significance, and that the term " soul
"
may be capable of being used with a far more definite con-
notation than hitherto.
He thmks it possible that some indistinct glimmerings of
this idea are to be found in ancient writings, especially in
those of some of the Fathers of the Alexandrian School, such
as Origen.
The Address was followed by a brief discussion.
OBITUARY.
Bishop Boyd Carpenter.
Through the death, on October 26th, of Bishop Boyd Car-
penter, one of our Vice-Presidents, the Society for Psychical
Research has to mourn the loss of a valued supporter. It
Dec, 1918. Obituary: Bishop Boyd Carpenter 239
was in 1885, while he was Bishop of Ripon, when the
Society had been in existence only three years, that he accepted
the Vice-Presidentship, and he held it for thirty-three years
until his death, except during the year 1912, when he filled
the more responsible office of President. His other avocations
naturally prevented his giving the time and attention required
for active prosecution of the investigations on which the
Society is engaged, but he was genuinely interested in our
work and approved of our methods, and this is clearly
expressed in his suggestive Presidential Address, delivered in
May 1912 (see Proceedings, Vol. XXVI.). He regarded the
extended knowledge of the powers and working of our psychical
nature, which the labours of our Society have produced and
are producing, as of great practical as well as theoretic impor-
tance, and his support through all these years has undoubtedly
been of great value to us.
P. 290. CASE.
We are indebted for the following case of successful prophecy
to Lieutenant W. Whately Smith, a Member of the Society, who
has also furnished the appended discussion of the case.
Statement by Capt. X." R.E.
In August 1913 I met a Belgian lady, a native of Brussels,
at the house of some mutual friends. This lady was reputed
to have had some remarkable successes in forecasting events con-
cerning her friends and acquaintances.
On this occasion she made the following statements with regard
to myself.
First, that in November of the same year, I should meet
and become engaged to a lady whom she described.
Secondly, that in January 191.5 I should become an officer in
the British Army on account of a war with Germany.
Thirdly, that I should be married shortly after I became an
officer.
Fomthly, that I should come to France " to fight the Germans "
in November 1916.
Being very sceptical of this sort of thing I noted the above
statements in my diary at the time.
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1918.
All of them subsequently proved to be correct in practice.
That is to say :
—
First, in November 1913 I met and became engaged to a lady
answering closely to the description given. This lady was entirely
unknown either to me or to the Belgian lady in August 1913.
Secondly, I was gazetted to a commission in January 1915.
Thirdly, I was married in August 1915. . .
Fourthly, I came out to France in November 1916.
The above is a correct report of the statement made by me on
May 25th, 1918. (Signed by Capt. X.")
Mr. Whateley Smith writes:—
I think that the [above] case of apparent prevision," which
has just come under my notice, might prove of sufficient interest
to Members of the Society to warrant [its appearance] in the
Journal.
The narrator is personally known to me, and I consider that
his statement is likely to be reliable. I enclose a copy and
am keeping the original signed by the narrator.
I do not think that it would be feasible under existing condi-
tions to obtain much in the way of corroborative evidence from
third parties.
By way of comment on this case I think the following points
are worth noting.
(i.) The description of Capt. " X.'s " future fiancee is practically
valueless. It is very diflicult to describe anyone unmistakeably
unless they possess some unusually striking characteristics. As
far as general appearance is concerned, this might, in such a
case, easily be guessed by a shrewd observer.
(ii.) The bare prophecy of a war with Germany goes for very
little. Many people were convinced that such a war was inevit-
able, and it is reasonable to suppose that a native of Brussels
might have German acquaintances, etc., which would leave little
doubt in her mind on the point.
(iii.) The dates on the other hand are of considerable interest, and
I think that this is one of the cases where it is possible to make
a fair estimate of the probability of the whole thing being due
to mere guesswork. ^
'In reply to enquiries Mr. Wliately Smith adds: "I think there is no
doubt that the items mentioned were the only ones prophesied, at any rate
Dec, 1918. Case. 241
I suggest that one might reasonably assess the various pro-
babilities as follows :
First.—The lady to whom Capt. " X." subsequently became
engaged was directly implied, and later proved to be, someone
whom he had not met in August 1913. His age at that time
would be about 26. He was married two years later. 1 should
judge that of men married at 28, the considerable majority
have met their future wives before the age of 26. I suggest
therefore that it would be fair to estimate the chance of guessing
correctly that Capt. "X."' had not yet met his future fiancee
as 7} or less—but say \ to be on the safe side.
Secondly.—We may suppose that a shrewd and sensitive observer
might possibly surmise that Captain "X." was sufficiently inclined
to marriage as such as to make it probable that he would become
engaged to someone within a period of, say, 6 months. I do
not think it likely that such surmise could narrow the period
down much below that. On this assumption the chance of
guessing the month correctly would be i. If we do not admit
the possibility of such a surmise the chance is of course much
less.
Thirdly, we may reasonably suppose that from the evidence
available to her, the Belgian lady might forecast the outbreak
of war correct within, say, 3 years. She would probably assume
that Capt. " X." would be the sort of person who would get a
commission shortly after the outbreak of war, and so the chance
of her guessing correctly the month of Gazette would be about J^..
Fourthly, she might reasonably assume that most oflicers would
go out to France within a year of being gazetted—which would
make the chance of guessing the month of going overseas correctly
Fifthly, on the assumption that the average engagement lasts
\h years, and that the " median " of the curve of frequency
-
distribution of length of engagement comes before the mean
—
which on the whole seems probable—the chance of guessing
that Capt. " X." would be married more than 1| years after
becoming engaged would certainly not be more than |. I think,
very likely less, but in the absence of statistics let us say I.
the only ones remtmhered by [Captain X.]. I 'cross-examined' him fairly
closely and urged him to give me all possible details and I am pretty sure
that if there had been anything else which he had noted I should have
elicited it."
242 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1918.
The chance of getting all these guesses right will be the product
of the chances of the individual guesses. .
— 1 V 1 V 1 V 1 y ^ — 1 •
~ -Z
^ 6 -^36 ^ 12''^ -J"" TCTSfi 8 '
in other words, the odds are 10,367 to 1 against the correct
forecasts being the result of pure guesswork even when aided by
the very considerable degree of acumen and information which I
have supposed to exist.
These odds should be discounted to an extent which I suggest
might well be 33i j^er cent, to allow for the fact that the state-
ment, although made by a reliable witness, is not supported by
corroborative testimony from third persons. '
'
This will reduce the odds against such a result being obtained
by pure guessing to 6911 to 1, i.e. the chance of guessing right
becomes gnVo.
It should carefully be noted that this result does not by any
means imply that the odds are 6911 to 1 in favour of this case
being due to true prevision. These odds are dependent also
upon the estimated a priori jDrobability of prevision as such.
This a priori probability refers of course to our estimate of the
probability of prevision, based on evidence received prior to the
particular piece of evidence under discussion. This is very
difficult to assess, but the following illustration—for which I am
indebted to my friend Mr. W. Hope-Jones—shows clearly how
it operates.
Suppose that the chance of a person winning at a given
fair throw at roulette = " a." Let the a priori probability of his
possessing a reliable " crib," telling him what will win next, be
" &."
Then before he plays we have four combinations of events to
consider :
(i) He has the " crib " and wins. The chance of this is " 6."
(ii) „ „ „ loses. „ „ „ 0. .
(Because the " crib " is, ex hypothesi, reliable.)
(iii) He has no such " crib " and wins. The chance of this is
u{l-b).
(iv) ,, ,, ,. ,, loses. The chance of this is
(l-a)(l-6).
That is to say, his total chance of winning is a + b - ab.
After it is observed that he has actually won, the possibility
of (iv) disappears.
Dec, 1918. Case. 243
The probabilities of (i) and (iii) retain their original ratio to each
other, but their sum must grow till it is equal to 1.
They now assume the values
r—, , from (i)
and — from (iii)
a + b-ab ^
'
The former of these represents the probability of his having
had the " crib and winning, that is to say (since he has won)
the a posteriari probability of his having had the " crib."
If a and b are both small fractions this expression = -f , so that
the chance of his not having had the " crib " becomes
a + b a + b'
That is, the odds are a to & against his possession of the "crib."
In the above case of apparent prevision (' = -gTri^- Therefore
in order to conclude that such a case is equally likely to be
explicable by true prevision as by coincidence we must suppose
the a priori probability of prevision to be not less than eA--
I imagine that most people would estimate this a priori pro-
bability at a considerably smaller figure.
This discussion is quite disproportionate to the intrinsic impor-
tance of the case, nor do I wish to give the impression of
placing any great reliance on the tentative estimates I have made
of the various chances involved. I have discussed it at this
length mainly because of the opportunities it offered for exemplify-
ing methods of treatment which may profitably be applied to
cases of prevision in general.
W. Whately Smith.
May 21th, 1918.
CORRESPONDENCE.
The following letter concerning Dr. Jack's article in the June
Journal on The Personal Appearance of the Departed, has
recently reached us from Miss Sellers, an Associate of the
Society residing in India. Though it to some extent repeats
what has been said by other correspondents, we make no
apology for inserting, it, because we feel sure that our readers
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research, dec, 1918.
will agree that the dreams with which Miss Sellers illustrates
her hypothesis are apposite and suggestive.
Madam,—When I read Dr. Jack's article in the June Journal
on " The Personal Appearance of the Departed as Described by
Controls," I knew that five years ago I should have agreed with
every statement in the article, but now I am not so sure that
" pictures in people's minds " are so simple an explanation for
out-of-the-way happenings as I used to think.
It is certainly inconceivable that our friends continue inde-
finitely with the same bodies and clothes that they had at or
near the time of death, and Dr. Jack's argument, that no one
knows his own appearance sufliciently to be able to build himself
up from memory, must be apparent to all ; but the fact that
the supposed spirits are frequently unable to spell their own
names, does not seem to me to be so much an argument against
the theory that the appearances are really the s^Dirits of the
departed, as against the theory that they are pictures in the
sitter's mind, for we do not know how much or what kind of
knowledge is carried over, but we do know that the sitter has
not forgotten how to spell his friend's name, and we might say
of him also, that if from memory he can impress the mind of
the control with his friend's appearance, he surely can perform
what seems the much simpler feat of impressing the spelling
of his friend's name, which we know he remembers.
When I was a young girl, a lady told me that she and a
favourite sister had made a compact that whichever died first
should, if possible, return and tell the other about the spirit
life. The sister died and the lady was sure that she would keep
her promise, but days passed and she did not come, and then one
night when the lady was lying awake, as she thought, her
sister appeared clad in one of her ordinary dresses, and told
her she could not explain the new life to her but that she was
well and happy.
To the lady, the vision, as she called it, was a satisfying
evidence of her sister's continued existence. I believed in the
immortality of the human soul, but I could not believe in the'
immortal spirit of her sister's dress ;
yet for many years I was
able to satisfy myself with the thought that it was a dream,
or, in other words, a picture from the lady's mind ; but saying
that the experience was " only a dream " does not satisfy me now,
for I do not know what dreams are.
Dec, 1918. Correspondence. 245
I cannot say that I really believe the theory that I am suggest-
ing, but it presents fewer difficulties to me just now than any
other. I do believe that there are more possibilities in the
study of dreams than in any other subject in the line of psychic
research, because everybody has at some time had a dream, and
all know what is meant when we speak of dreams.
My theory is that as in dreams we unconsciously take on
different appearances and clothes according to the time and
people we are dreaming about, so spirits may likewise appear,
without any conscious willing or building up, in the forms their
friends can recognise. I will illustrate by relating three of my
own dreams.
(1) A few mornings ago, I dreamed that a very intimate friend,
whom I have not seen for four years, came to see me and arrived
in the morning before I was up. I did not wait to dress but saw
her in the night clothes I was really sleeping in. I saw myself
in a mirror and I looked exactly as I did a few minutes later,
when I did get out of bed. I noted the slight changes the four
years had made in my friend's appearance, and we spoke of the
new clothes she had had to get on coming from the plains of
India to the hUls.
(2) Two or three weeks ago I dreamed of being in America
with two friends that I have not seen for thirty years. We were
walking together in a street of the town in which the three of
us lived in 1888. We each " wore " the bodies we had in that
year, and one wore a dress which she had at that time. When
I wakened I remembered the clothes the others had on, but did
not recognise them as clothes I had ever seen in reality. I could
not remember my own clothes.
(3) Several years ago I dreamed that I had just arrived in
Berlin on a train, with the personal appearance and clothes of
the time of my dream, then the scene and time changed, and I
was in a house in some other German city in the early part of
the eighteenth century. I saw a young lad of eighteen or nine-
teen, who I knew was the ancestor of my maternal gi-andfather
and he was that day leaving his German home to go to America.
Although I was conscious of my present life, yet I was not my-
self in age or appearance, for I was only about twenty years
old and had blue eyes and fair hair, while in reality I have dark
hair and eyes, and I was the sister of my emigrating ancestor.
246 Jo^irnal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, i918.
In this dream I built up not only myself and the brother, but
also the mother and the house, a special feature of the furnishing
of which was a pipe organ. In the dream, as a daughter of the
house I was playing the organ, but when a memory of my real
self came to me, I could not go on with the piece, for I do not
play any musical instrument. This dream was not a memory
in any way, for although I knew that my ancestors left Germany
and went to America in about 1700, yet there is no tradition
of a young lad leaving his home in which there was a pipe organ,
nor did I ever hear of any sister being left behind, so I was
not even acting a scene I had heard about.
I have given these three dreams because they show how I
assumed a different body with corresponding clothes for each
occasion, the first being reality, the second memory and the
third pure fancy which had never existed in my waking thoughts.
From my dreams tlie question has come to me whether dis-
carnate spirits may not have the inherent power to be in appear-
ance what they think themselves. I do not present this for any
one's acceptance, I only suggest it as perhaps a possible explana-
tion. R. A. Sellers.
Naini Tal, India,
September Uth, 1918.
REVIEWS.
Hypnotism and Treatment by Suggestion. By Albert E. Davis,
F.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. (Simpkin, Marshall, Hamilton, Kent and
Co., Ltd., London. 1918. Pp. 124. 2s. 6d. net.)
Dr. Davis' object is to " exj^lain in simple language the various
treatments embraced in the term psycho-therapy," and in this
he has succeeded admirably up to a certain point, but, doubtless
from the fact that his work has been mainly mental suggestion,
he leaves the reader with a rather one-sided view of the treat-
ments, and does not lay much stress upon the use of psycho-
analysis and re-education. But one must remember that, in
writing a small book, the difficulty is to balance the omissions
and insertions. Dr. Davis' recommendation of the use of
psycho-therapy and hypnotism in the treatment of paralysis
is indeed welcome. Whatever the explanation of the success,
whether it depends upon opening up a collateral nerve circulation,
or upon re-vitalistng a possible '
shock-affected '
area surrounding
Dec, 1918. Reviews. 247
the area of injury, there is no doubt that some patients can
recover the use of paralysed limbs to a greater extent with the
help of psycho-therapy than without it.
" Re-education of the will " is alhided to, but unfortunately
the methods employed are not described, though a considerable
amount of work has been done during the last few years based
-upon Vittoz' exercises, or other specially devised systems.
The need of the co-operation of the patient is dealt with wlien
speaking of auto-suggestion, a power that may be as potent for
evil if abused, as it is creative of good if practised under correct
conditions. Altogether there is much wise advice, and an appre-
ciation of the advantages and the dangers of psycho-therapv
in Dr. Davis' book. ^ M C B
Telergy (The Communion of Souls). By Frank C Constablf
M.A., Member of the S.P.R. (Kegan, Paul, Trench, Trubner
and Co., 1918.) Pp. v + 113. 3s. 6d. net.
This little book is largely metaphysical. It aims at showing
m a popular manner that if telepathy be a fact of human ex
perience, as the author believes, we have, with certain meta-
physical assumptions, " evidential proof, proof from human experience
that we exist, transcendent of time and space, as souls •
and that
communion, transcendent of time and space, exists between us
all as souls" (p. 73). To attempt to epitomise or discuss the
argument in a short notice like the present would be futile
The author tells us in a prefatory note that the book is itself
mainly a synopsis of a larger work. Personality and Telepathy
which he published in 1911, and which was reviewed in th^
Journal Vol. XV., p. 223. In the same prefatory note he
himself summarises the present work for us. He says, "I begin
the book by shewing what reason would appear to lead us to
assume our really real personality is: we find it in the soul
I then turn to human experience and try to show that it supports
the judgment of reason."
We cannot but regret that Mr. Constable has called his book
Telergy^g^vrng the word a sense which in our opinion is almost
the reverse of that in which Myers used it. Myers (though not
always quite consistently), and most of us who have used it since
expressed by it the hypothesis of direct action on the brain or
nervous system by a spirit other than the owner of the brain-
thus implying the action of spirit on matter. Mr. Constable
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. Dec, 1918.
means something unconditioned by time and space required to
explain telepathy (p. 25)—" the power in us all which must he
for telepathy to exist " (p. 41). Fortunately he uses the word
so little in the course of his book that confusion is not likely
to arise except through the title ; and the general theory expounded
in the book is useful and suggestive.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE.
Books added to the Library since the last List, Journal, July 1917.
1
Baggally (W. W.), Telepathy, Genuine and Fraudulent. London, 1917.
Bayley (Harold). The Undiscovered Country. London, 1918.
Bernheim (Dr. H.), Automatisme et Suggestion. Paris, 1917.
1
Bond (F. Bligh), The Gate of Remembrance. ' Oxford, 1918.
'
Brewster (Bertram), The Philosophy of Faith. London, 1913.
^
Brown (Dr. Haydn), Advanced Suggestion. London, 1918.
Clodd (Edward), The Question : If a man die, shall he live again t
London, 1917.
Constable (F. C), Telergy. London, 1918.
Coover (J. E.), Experiments in Psychical Research. (" Leland Stanford
Junior University's Psychical Research Monograph No. 1.")
U.S.A.. , 191/.
Davis (Dr. A. E.), Hypnotism and Treatment by Suggestion. London, 1918.
Doyle (Arthur Conan), The New Revelation. London, 1918.
Ferenczi (Dr. S.), Contributions to Psycho- Analysis. Translated by Dr.
Ernest Jones.
U.S.A., 191/.
Fox (Rachel J.), Revelation on Revelation and These Latter Days.
Freud (Dr. S.), The Interpretation of Dreams. Translated by A. A. Brill,
Ph B M.D.
London, 191.3.
^
Gurney (E.),' Myers (F. W. H.), and Podmore (F.), Phantasms of the Livmg.
(Abridged Edition.)
London, 1918.
^
Hill (J. Arthur), Man is a Spirit. London, 1918.
1 Spiritualism ; Its History, Phenomena, and Doctrme. London, 1918.
1
Jones (Dr. Ernest), Papers on Psycho-Analysis. Revised ^nd^^^^^^^
^^^^^
Enlarged Edition. ^ i , i i t> •
nr'
1
Jung (Drfc. G.), Psychology of the Unconscious. Translated by Beatrice M.
Hinkle,M.D. ,
'
:„!
Lodge (Sir Oliver). Christopher.
London, 1918.
Mercier (Charles A., M.D.), Spiritualism and Sir Oliver Lodge.
^^^^^^^ ^^^^
Skrine (John Huntley, D.D.), The Survival of Jesus. London, 1917.
Smith (Charlotte Fell), The Life of John Dee. London, 909.
1
Streeter (Burnett H., and others), Immortality. London, 1917.
3 Tweedale (C. L.), Man's Survival after Death. London, 1909.
Wesley (John), The Epworth Phenomena. London, 1917.
.
Presented by the Publishers. ' Presented by the Author. » Presented by Mrs. Buiat.
END OF VOLUME XVIIL
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XVIII.
1917—rguS
A.
Abbott, IVIrs., " The little Georgia ilagnet " 30-31
Accounts of Receipts and Expenditure. See Society for Psycbical
Research.
American Society for Psychical Research, Journal of - - - - 31
Analgesia, Hypnotic 109-110, 111
Apparitions jg
„ at or near the time of death 1,5, 121
Appeal for donations towards the increased cost of printing - 202, 203
,, ., Response to 236
Archives de Psychologie 63
Automatic Communications 135
See also The Gate of Remembrance, review of.
Automatisms, Series of Concordant, Reference to - . . . 71
B.
B., M. C, Review of Dr. A. E. Davis' Hypnotism, and Treatment hy
Suggestion ----------- 246
Baddeley, Colonel C. E., On Dr. CIrawford's The Reality of Psychic
Phenomena 64-65
Baggally, W. W., Telepathy, Genuine and Fraudident, Review of - 128
Balfour, The Right Hon. Gerald W., T//'' &/?-r/7)/o?!,y,9):M.s - - 43
'
/
iv Index to Vol. XVITI.
" Barker, Dr. C," Evidence contributed by - - - - -
28
Barlow, Miss Jane, Obituary 43^ 49^ 138
Barrett, Sir W. F.—
Barlow, Miss Jane, Obituary 49 '
Cases collected by 191-193
Folkestone Poltergeist 108, 155-158
On the Threshold of the Unseen, Review of - - - - - 58 ^
Tiuo interesting Cases of Supernormal Actio7i - - - 108, 140
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., Reviews of Books 8.3, 128, 198
Biggs, Dr. M. H., Reference to Hypnotic Experiments of - - - 111
Blisters, Hypnotic production of 108-111 1
Bond, F. Bligh, The Gate of Remembrance, Review of - - - 183
j
Boustead, Mrs. Leila, On the evidence for survival - - - 146-147
j
Bridge, G. E. W., Evidence contributed by - - - - 19-20, 23-24 j
Bridge, Mrs. G. E. W., Evidence contributed by - - - 20, 22-23
Browett. Walter, Evidence contributed by - - . . 35-36, 37
Browett, Mrs. W., Case contributed by 35
Bro\vning, Oscar, Election as Hon. Associate ----- 13
C.
" C, Mrs.," Cases contributed by 225-228
Carpenter, Bishop Boyd, Obituary 238
Case delayed too long - - 209
Cases
—
" G." 38
" L." 19, 25, 35, 51, 56, 92, 191, 192, 193, 225, 227
" P." ----- 239
Cases, Two hiteresting, of Supernormal Action ----- 108
Cheriton Case. See Folkestone Poltergeist.
Child Percipients 193,231
Clodd, Edward, The Question : If a Man die, shall he live again ?
Review of 198
Cloudless Sky beyond the Horizon 203
Communication from the Dead, evidence of identity - - - - 38
Constable, F. C, On the ;S7. Paul Cross-correspondence - - - 98-99
,, ,, Telergy {The Communion of Smds), HeYiew ol - - 247
Controls, Personal appearance of the departed as described by
187,211,213-225,243-246
Correspondence 64-68, 85-88, 98-102, 122-127, 145-150, 196, 211, 213-223,
235, 243
Council, Elections, Meetings, etc. See Society for Psychical Research.
Cowley. Colonel N., Evidence contributed by - - - - - 39
Craig, E. H. Ciunningham, Report on disturbances at Cheriton,
Folkestone - - - 179-182
G. N. N. Tyrrell on - - - 196-198
Index to Vol. XVIII. V
Crawford, W. J., D.Sc, The liealily of Psychic Phenoineiia : Ruj^s,
Levitations, etc., Review of - - - 29
Criticism of - 64, 65
,, Reply by Reviewer - 65
Cross-correspondence : Ho-pe, Star and Browning. See Cloudless Sky.
St. Paul - - 71-83, 98-99, 112-121, 140-144
Cross-correspondences, Question of the Agent - - - - 101-102
Crystal visions 191-193
Cummins, E. F., Evidence contributed by 173-176
D.
Davis, Dr. Albert E., Hypnotism and Treatment hy Suggestion, Review of 246
Delboeuf, Professor, Influence of pain upon healing processes - - 111
Development. The, of Different Types of Evidence for Personal Survival
43-49, 139-140
Dickinson, G. Lowes, Case reported by ----- - 56
Dickinson, Harry, Evidence contributed by - - - - - 57
Dickinson, Miss Janet Lowes, Case contributed by - . - - 56
Dionysius, The Ear of 43, 44-45, 139-140
Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personahty . . . . 149-150, 203
Dougall, Miss L., Case described by 209-211
,, ,, The Good avd Evil of Spiritualism. See Immortality,
Review of.
Dream-phenomena, On - - - - 2-6, 15, 67, 87, 97-98, 103-104
,, ,, Dream-personaUties, the identification of - - 2
„ ,, Dreams, duration of 97-98
„ „ ,, Interpretation of - - - - 2-3, 103-104
Dream-PsycJiology, by Dr. Maurice Nicoll, Review of - - - - 103
Dreams, Cases - - 4, 5-6, 25-29, 35-38, 51-56, 92-98, 225-228, 245-246
„ Coincidental 25
E.
Enbrook Manor. See Folkestone Poltergeist.
Endowment Fmid. See Society for Psychical Research
Erratum in Proceedings
Ether and Matter and their Possible Psychical Bearings
Experiments for physical phenomena
- 34-35
237-238
- 29-31
Fawkes, Miss Ethel, Evidence contributed by - - - - . 57
Fieldsend, Mss Ada M., Evidence contributed hy - - - -
95
Folkestone Poltergeist 108, 155, 196
Freud . .
2q^
VI Index to Vol. XVIII.
G. - .
Gate, The, of liernemhrance, by F. Bligh Bond, Review of - - - 183
" Georgia Magnet," Performances of - 30-31
Girdlestone, F. Kennetii, Experiments in telepathy - - - - 137
Glastonbury Abbey, Automatic Script concerning. See Gate of
Mermnibrance.
Goligher, Miss Kathleen, Mediumship of 59
See also The Reality of Psychic Phenomena.
Gumey, Edmund - 121, 122, 224-225, 235
H.
H. , J. A., Review of Sir W. Barrett's On the Threshold of the Unseen 58
Hadtield, J. Arthur, M.B.—
Influence of Hypnotic Suggestion on Inflammatory Conditions - 108
T. W. RoUeston on 145-146
Mind, The, and the Brain. See Iminortality, Review of.
Hallucinations, Sensory-
—
Auditory 191-192
Child percipient 231-235
On the nature of . - - 122
Hayes, Rev. J. W., Personal appearance of the departed - - 211-212
Hesketh, Thomas, On the Folkestone Poltergeist - - - 108, 158-164
Hill, J. Arthur, Psychical Investigations, Review of - - - - 83
Hodgson- control. See Cross- correspondence : St. Paul.
" Holland, Mrs.," Automatic script. See Cross- correspondence
:
St. Paul.
Holt, Miss Mary D.,, Evidence contributed by 195
Hyperaemia, Hypnotic production of - - . . . 108-111
Hypnotic Suggestion, Influence of, on Inflammatory Conditions 108, 145-146
Hypnotism and Treatment by Suggestion, by Dr. A. E. Davis, Review of 246
Hyslop, Dr. J. H.—
Evidence for Survival 99-101
Dr. Jacks' reply - - - - 122-126
Mi-s. Sidgwick's The Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance-phenomena 31-32
Personal appearance of the departed - - - - - 220-222
I.
I. ,
T., Evidence contributed by 55
Identity, Evidence of 38
hmnortality, by B. H. Streeter and others. Review of . - . 151
Impressions - - 56, 193
4
Indeoi to Vol. XVIII. vii
J.
Jacks, Dr. L. P.
—
Dramatic dreams -------- 2-3, 4-6, 15
Election as President 12, 134
Personal appearance of the departed as described by controls - 187
Reference to - - - 211, 212, 213-225, 243-246
Presidential Address 35, 70, 140
Survival, On the evidence for - - - - - 47-49, 122-126
Reference to 99-101, 146-147
Survival, The Theory of, in the Light of its Context - - 70, 140
Jacques, R. P., Evidence contributed by 164-165
Johnson, Miss Alice, Election as Hon. Member ----- 18
,, ,, Resignation as Editor and Research Officer - 18
Johnston, Dr. George, Case contribut«d by - - - - 51-56
Jones. Mrs. S., Case contributed by 19-25
Jung, Dr. C. G., Election as Corresponding Member - - - - 13
Theories of 63, 104
L.
Lateau, Louise, Reference to case of - - - - - - 111
Lawsou, C. W.," Evidence contributed by - - - - - 26-27
" Lawson, Miss E.," Evidence contributed by - - - - - 27
Leonard, Mrs. Osborne, Sittings with - . - . 137-138, 154, 184
Levilations, etc., The Reality of Psychic Pheitoincm, Review of - - 29
Library, Supplementary Catalogue -------88, 248
Lodge, Sir OKver
—
Cases reported by ------- - 35, 38, 51
Ether and Matter, and their Possible Psychical Bearings - 237-238
Personal appearance of the departed 213
Raymond, by, References to 15, 18
,, Review of -------- - 7
Report on the performances of the " Georgia Magnet " - - 30
Long, Dr. Constance E., The Psycho-Analytic Use of Subliiniiud
, Material - - - - 13, 139
M.
M., T. W., Review of Dr. Nicoll's Dream Psychology - - - 103
Macdonald, Lieut. -Colonel C, Case contributed by - - - - 38
Meetings. See Society for Psycliical Research.
Meire, G. M., Case concerning 35-38
Members and Associates. See Society for Psychical Research.
Mercer, Miss A., Evidence contributed by 94
Mercier, Charles A., M.D., Spiritualism and Sir Oliver Lodge, Review of 198
MUburn, Rev. R. Gordon, On the Evidence for Survival - - 101-102
Vlll Index to Vol XVIII.
Miyid, The, mid Brain, by J. Arthur Hadfield. See Iitmtortalily,
Review of.
Mitchell, T. W., M.D., The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality 203
,, „ Review of Dr. Nicoll's Dream, Psychology - 103
Mowbray, Miss Eva, Evidence contributed by 39-40
Multiple Personality, The Doris Fischer Case 203
„ „ and the making of dreams - - - - 3, 5
Myers, F. W. H., On psychical interaction - - - - 122, 235-236
N.
NicoU, Dr. Maurice, Dream Psychology, Review of - - - - 103
Notes on Current Periodicals 31, 63
O.
Obituary
—
Barlow, Miss Jane 49
Carpenter, Bishoj) Boyd -------- 238
On the Threshold of the Unseen, by 8ir W. F. Barrett, Review of - 58
Ouija-board, Experiments with 138
P.
" P., Leading Seaman H.," Experiments with. See Hypnotic
Suggestion, Influence on inflammatory conditions.
Pain, Effect of, upon healing processes . . - - 108-111,145-146
Pearson, Norman, The Soul and its Story, by, Review of - - - 60
Penfold, F. W. R., Evidence contributed by - - - - 171-172
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count, Election as Hon. Member - - 134
Personal appearance of the Departed as described by Controls
187, 211, 213-225, 243-246
Phantasms of the Living 224, 235-236
New edition of - - - - 121-122, 139, 200
Physical Phenomena, Experiments for. . See The Reality of Psychic
Phetwmena.
Piddington, J. G.,
—
Appointment as Hon. Treasurer - - - - - - - 91, 138
On Dr. Prince's review of the St. Paul Cross- correspondence - 81, 140
Piper, Mrs. See Cross- correspondence : St. Paul ; Cloudless Sky above
the Horizon ; and Psychology of Mrs. Piper s Trance.
Poltergeist, the Folkestone • - - 108, 155, 196
Posthumous-letter experiments. Evidential weakness in - - - 46
Presidential Address ---------- 35, 70
Prevision 239
Prince, Walter F., Ph.D., St. Paul Cross- correspondence reviewed - 71, 112
Index to Vol. XVIII. ix
Printing, Increased cost ------- 35, 187, 202, 203
„ ,, ,, Donations towards 236
Psychic Phenomena, The Reality of. Review- of 29
Psychical Investigations, by J. Arthur Hill, Review of - - - 83
Psycho- Analytic Use of Suhliminal Material 139
Psychology, Dream-phenomena and 15
Psychology, The, of Mrs. Piper's Trance-php7iome7ia - - - - 31-32
Q.
Question, The. If a man die, slmll he live again ? by Edward Clodd,
Review of ---------- - 198
R.
R., K. F., On the re^aew of The Reality of Psychic Phenomena,- - 65
On the Evidence for Survival - - - - 85-86, 126-127
,, ,, Reference to ----- - 147-149
" R., Madame." Evidence contributed by ------ 228
Radclyffe-Hall, Mss M., and Mrs. Troubridge, A Series of Sittings with
Mrs. Leonard 1.34, 137-138, 154
Ramsden, Miss Hermione, A Society for Psychical Research in Norway 200
Raps, Levitations, etc., The Reality of Psychic Phenomena, Review of 29
Raymond, or Life and Death 15, 18
„ Review of - - - 7
Reality, The, of Psychic Phenomena, Review of 29
Redwood; Sir Boverton, Report to, on Phenomena at Cheriton
(Folkestone) 179-181
Reid, N. C. Evidence contributed by 54-55
Remembrance, The Gate of, by F. BHgh Bond, Review of - - 183
Reviews - - -
7, 29, 58, 60, 83, 103, 128, 151, 183, 198, 246, 247
Robinson, Lennox, Experiments with the Ouija-board - - - 138
Rolfe, F. W., Evidence contributed by 165-170
RoUeston, T. W., On Surgeon Hadfield's hypnotic experiments - - 145
Russell, Mrs. E. S., Case contributed by 193
S.
Salis, Geoffrey, Evidence contributed by 193
Salis, Mrs., Cases contributed by 191-193
Salter, Mrs. W. H., Notes on Current Periodicals - - - - 31
St. Paul. See Cross-correspondences.
Schiller, F. C. S.—
More about Dreams --------- 2
Notes on Current Periodicals 63
Personal appearance of the Departed ----- 222-223
X Index to Vol. XVIIT.
Review of the Doris Fischer Case 149
„ of Norman Pearson's The Soul and its Story - - - 60
Spiritual Value of Names 222
Sellers, Miss R. A , Personal appearance of the Departed - - 244-246
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
A Case delayed too long 209
Development of Different Types of Evidence for Survival - - 43, 139
„ Reference to 44-47
Personal appearance of the Departed 224-225
Preparation of new edition of Plmnfasmf: of the Living 121-122, 139, 200
Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance 31
Review: The Reality of Psychic Phenomena . . . - 29
„ Reply to criticisms 65
" Sidney, Elias " 83-84
Sinclair, Miss May, On the Evidence for Survivnl - - 67-68, 147-149
Sittings with Mrs. Leonard. A Series of - - - - 134, 137-138, 154
Smith, H. Arthur
—
Resignation as Hon. Treasurer ----- - 91, 138
Review : Raymond 7
Smith, Mrs. Travers, Experiments with 138 .
Smith, W. Whately, Case contributed and discussed by - - - 239
Society for Psychical Research
—
Accounts
—
Endowment Fund 17, 131
General Fund 16, 130
Activities of, Effect of the War upon 13, 14-15, 35, 135, 137, 202, 203
Appeals. See Council, below.
Appointment of Hon. Treasurer 91, 92, 138
Council, Appeals for well-evidenced cases - - - - 135-137
,, „ contributions towards increased cost of
piinting . - . - 202, 203
„ „ Response to 236
„ and Officers, Elections ... 11, 12-13, 133, 134
„ Meetings 11, 12, 34, 43, 70, 91, 107, 133-134, 154, 202, 230-231
„ Reports for 1916 and 1917 - - - - 11, 12, 13, 135
Leonard, Mrs., Investigation of 184
Meetings
—
Aimual General 11,132-133
Council. See above.
General 13, 70, 154, 203
Private 43, 107-108, 134
Members and Associates, Honorary, Corresponding and Ordinary,
Elections of 9-11, 1.3-14, 34, 42-4.3, 69-70, 90-91, 106, 132, 1.34, 201,
230
President, Election of 12.1.34
Publications, reduced output - - - - - ' - - 14, 35
Index to Vol. XVIII. XI
Reports for the years 1916 and 1917 13, 135
Resignation of Mr. H. Artliur Smith 91, 92, 138
Stereotype plates of Proceedings, Sale of 154
Society for Psychical Research in Norway 200
Sold, The, and its Story, by Norman Pearson, Review of -
Spiritual Value of Names
Spiritvalism, The Good and Evil of. See Immortality, Review of.
Spiritualism and Sir Oliver Lodge, by Dr. C. A. Mercier, Review of - 198
Stawell, Miss F. MeUan, On The Ear of Dionysius - - - - 43, 137
Reference to 44-45, 48, 137
" Stephen, R.," Case connected with ' - - 25-29
Stephens. W. H., Evidence contributed by . . . . 176-178
Stigmatisation and kindred phenomena. Hypnotic - - 108-111
Subliminal Material, The Psycho- Analytic Use of - - - - 139
Suggestion, Hypnotic, Influence on Inflammatory Conditions 108, 145-146
Survival, On the question of, and power to communicate 7, 18, 58, 83, 152
Discussion on the evidence for 43, 44-49, 67-68, 85-88, 99-102, 122-
127, 146-149
•
„ „ Personal appearance of the Departed as
described by controls 187, 211, 213-225,
235-236, 243-246
Survival, The TJieory of, in tJie Light of its Context - - - - 70, 140
T.
Taylor, Miss E. M., Crj'stal visions - - - - - - 191-193
Telepathy, Experimental - - - - - - - 121, 128, 137
„ vSpontaneous
—
Dreams 35, 51, 121, 225-228
Impressions 56, 121, 193-196
Vision 209-211
See also Cases L.
,, Phenomenon of 45-46, 151, 199
,, as an explanation of the Evidence for Survival 48, 67-68, 101, 125,
126, 152
Telepathy, Genuine and Fraudulent, by W. W. Baggally, Review of - 128
Telergy (The Communion of Souls), by F. C. Constable, Review of - 247
•'
Thinking " Animals 64
Thomas, Mss C. M., Evidence contributed by - - - - 172-173
Thomas, Ernest S., Dramatic Dreams 4-6
,, ,, On the Evidence for vSmvival . - . - 86-88
Threshold, On the, of the Unseen, by Sir W. F. Barrett, Review of - 58
Trance, The Psychology of Mrs. Piper's 31-32
Troubridge, Mrs., and Miss M. Radclylfe-Hall, A Series of Sittings with
Mrs. Leonard -------- 134, 137-138, 154
Tyrrell, G. N. N., Case contributed by 25
On the Folkestone Poltergeist - 196-198
xii Index to Vol. XVIII.
U.
Unconscious, The 63-64
Unseen, On the Threshold of the, by Sir W. F. Barrett, Review of - 58
V.
Verrall, Mrs. A. W., Automatic scripts of, references to
82, 114, 116, 120 (footnote), 141-144
See also " Cloudless Sky above the Horizon."
Verrall, Miss (Mrs. Salter), Automatic scripts of. See Cross-correspon-
dence : St. Paul.
Visions, Crystal 191-193
Telepathic 209-211
.. ..I .. ...
Wales, Hubert, " Cloudless Sky above the Horizon " - - - - 203
War, The European
—
Cases connected with - - - 14-15, 19. 38, 51, 92, 191, 227, 232
Eiiect of, on the activities, income, and membership of the
V - Society 13, 14, 135, 137
„ On the output and cost of pubhcations 14, 35, 187, 202, 203
Weber, Professor R., Experiments to ascertain the lapse of time on
waking from sleep Q4.
Wilkinson, A., Mediumship of ------- - 83-84
Wilkinson,. Miss M. S., Case contributed by 92
" Willett, Mrs.," Automatic scripts of. See The Ear of Dionysius.
" Williams, F.," Evidence contributed by 28
X.
" X.," Captain, Evidence contributed by 239-240
Z.
" Z.," Mr., Mediumship of 38
1^
FOR NOTICE OF MeETilNIG, SEE FIRST PA6E.
JOURNAL
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
For Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only.
NO. CCCXXXIV.—VOL. XVIII.—JANUARY, 1917.
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
20 HANOVER SQUARE, LONDON, W.
All rights reserved.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltel., University Press, Glasgow.
NOTICES.
CoMMDNICATlONS FOR THE EDITOR TO BE ADDRESSED TO
—
Mrs. Salter, Societv for Psychical Research,
20 Hanover Square, Londok, .W.
Members are invited to send contributions as to facts arising within their
own observation, or critical discussion of the results already obtained by
the Society.
Subscriptions for 1917.
Subscriptions for 1917 are now due. Members and Associates are
REQUESTED TO SEND THEM TO THE TREASURER, H. ARTHUR SmITH, ESQ.,
7 QaEEN's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W., at their early con-
venience. The Subscription of Members is Two Guineas ; that of
Associates is One Guinea.
Cheques mat be Crossed " London Countt and Westminster Bank,
Temple Bar Branch."
With regard to the Subscriptions of American Members, see Notice on
third page of cover.
Information relating to any branch of the Society's work may be sent
to the Honorary Secretaries, or to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Members and Associates are requested to send notice of any change
of name or address to the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research,
20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Applications for Membership and for printed documents should be
addressed to the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover
Square, London, W.
Subscriptions are payable to the Hon. Treasurer, H. Arthur Smith, Esq.,
7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W. Article 18 is as follows :
—
"All subscriptiong shall become payable upon the election of the Member or
Associate, and subsequently on the Ist day of January in each year ;
provided that in
case any Member or Associate is elected on or after the 1st day of October, his sub-
scription shall be accepted as for the next following year."
Forms for the regular payment of subscriptions through a banker may
be bad on application.
A form of bequest can be had on application to the Secretary, Society
for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday, when
they close at 1.30 p.m.
NOTICES.
ANNUAL GENEEAL MEETING.
The Annual General Meeting (for Business Purposes only) of the
Members of the Society will be held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W.,
on Wednesday, January 31st, 1917, at 3.30 p.m.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
A Meeting of the Council will be held at 20 Hanover Square, London, W.,
on Wednesday, January 31st, 1917, immediately after the Annual Business
Meeting.
GENEEAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society will be held in The Council Chamber,
20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Wednesday, January 31st, 1917, at
5 p.m., when a paper entitled
"THE PSYCHO-ANALYTIC USE OF SUBLIMINAL MATEEIAL"
will be read by
Dr. Constance E. Long.
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the
door. Visitors will be admitted on the production of an invitation card
signed by a Member or Associate.
NOTICE TO MEMBEES OF THE SOCIETY EESIDING IN
THE UNITED STATES OF AMEEICA.
Members and Associates living in America are requested to pay their
subscriptions, as they become due, to tlie Society's Agent, the W. B. Clarke
Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
The subscription of Members is Ten dollars annually, or a single payment
of One hundred dollars ; the subscription of Associates is Five dollars
annually, or a single payment of Fifty dollars. These subscriptions are due
immediately on election and subsequently on the first day of January in
each year. Orders for extra copies of publications on the special terms allowed
to Members and Associates should also be sent by American Members
and Associates to the W. B. Clarke Co., to whom payments for the same
should be made in advance. All remittances to the W. B. Clarke Co. should
be made either by cheque on Baltimore, Boston, Philadelphia, or New York,
or by Express or Post Office Money Order ;
otherwise, a collection charge of
from 10 cents to 40 cents will be made.
Bound in cloth, Demy 8vo, 325-f viii pp., with Index, Price 9s. net.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESSES
TO THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
1882-^1911
BY
Henry Sidgwick, Balfour Stewart, Arthur J. Balfour,
William James, Sir William Crookes, F. W. H. Myers,
Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir William Barrett, Charles Richbt,
Gerald W. Balfour, Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, H. Arthur
Smith, and Andrew Lang.
Members and Associates can obtain copies of the above at the reduced
price of os. net, inclusive of postage, on application to the Secretary, S.F.R.,
20 Hanover Square, London, W. The application must be accompanied by
a remittance.
THE JOURNAL.
The Journal can be obtained, bound' in- cloth, as under, by Members and
Associates :
—
. I. (Nos. 1-- 18) pp. 488 . . 10s. 6d.
II. (Nos. 19-- 35) pp. 520 . . lOs. 6d.
III. (Nos. 36-- 55) pp. 360 . 7s. 6d.
IV. (Nos. 56-- 75) pp. 348 .. 7s. 6d.
' '
V. ,
(Nos. 76-- 95) pp. 352. . 78. 6d.
VI. (Nos. 96--115) pp. 376 . 7s. 6d,
VII. (Nos. 116--134) pp. 340 . 7s. 6d.
VIII. (Nos. 135--154) pp. 332 . 7s. 6d.
IX. (Nos. 155--174) pp. 340 . 78. 6d.
X. (Nosj 175--194) pp. 320 . 7s. 6d.
XI. (Nos, 195--214) pp. 324 . 78. 6d.
XII. (Nos. 215--234) pp. 348 . 7s. 6d.
XIII. (Nos. 235--254) pp. 336 . 78. 6d.
X.TV. (Nos. 255--274) pp. 404 . 7s. 6d.
XV. (Nos. 275--294) pp. 344 . 7s. 6d.
XVI. (Nos. 295--314) pp. 320 . 7s. 6d.
The price of separate Numbers is as follows :
—
Nos. 1-35, 9d. each; Nos. 114, (Nov., 1894), and 118, (Mar. and April, 1895),
Is. each ; other Nos., 6d. each.
THE PROCEEDINGS.
The PROCEEDINGS can be obtained, bound in cloth, as under, by Members
and Associates :
—
Vol I. (Parts I.—IV.) . . .
' . . pp. 336 5s.
»» II. ( , , v.—VII.) .... 340 ,58.
>9 III. ( , , VIII.—IX.) .... 500 58.
»» IV. ( , , X.—XI.) .... 605 4s.
J>
V. ( , , XII.—XIV.) .... 606 5s.
M VI. ( , , XV.—XVII.). 707 ds.
»}
VII. ( , , XVIII.—XX.) 442 4b.
»> VIII. ( , , XXI.—XXIII.) . 647 58.
n IX. ( , , XXIV.—XXV.) . 407 48.
)i X. ( , ,
XXVI.) 466 48.
XI. ( , , XXVII.—XXIX.) . 637 58.
XII. ( , , XXX.—XXXI. and Appendix) 391 48.
XIII. ( , , XXXII.—XXXIII.) 654 68.
i> XIV. ( , , XXXIV.—XXXV.) 436 58.
f 1
XV. ( , , XXXVI.—XL.) . 522 6b.
>> XVI. ( , ,
XLI.) . . . . 650 68.
>9
XVII. ( , , XLII.—XLV.) 468 6s. 3d.
f 9
XVIII. ( , , XLVI.—XLIX.) . 548 78.
9) XIX. ( , , L.—LII.) .... 508 6s. 6d.
M XX. ( , ,
LIII.) 444 6s.
l> XXI. ( , , LIV.—LVI.) .... 584 6s.
>l
XXII. ( , ,
LVII.) 446 6s.
f 9
XXIII. ( , , LVIII.—LIX.) . 602 7s.
») XXIV. ( , ,
LX.-LXI.) .... 758 78.
XXV. ( , , LXII.—LXIV.) . 540 6s.
J >
XXVI. ( , , LXV.—LXVII.) . 544 6s.
)>
XXVII. ( , , LXVIII.—LXX.) . 547 6s.
„ XXVIII. ( , ,
LXXI.) 657 7s.
. In paper ( , ,
LXXII.) .... 195 2s.
,
Any of the Parts can be purchased separately.
Cloth covers for binding Vol. XXVIII. of the Proceeding.s, and Vol. XVI. of
the -Journal (as well as earlier Vols.), may be obtained, price Is. each.
Any of the above may be obtained from the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Note. —Single numbers or volumes will be sent post free,
