{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wynne_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Wynne B Probable NDE 7056","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wynne B Probable NDE 7056  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wynne B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3552 Wynne B Probable NDE 7056  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have always had difficulty describing this event, although several times I have tried. I was very young and already had a history of bad teeth. My Mother had taken me to the dentist for a dental procedure. I do not recall for what I was there, however, I do remember the mask with the sleeping gas. I can distinctly remember what it smelled like and the feeling of slowly slipping away. 

I was in a place that was as vast as the ocean, except it was not really a place. It was like sound waves coated in gold, a place made of only vibrations, like the sea I could drift on them; only it felt like I was floating through a time and space that did not exist, I was weightless. Everything vibrated; there was no space or time, as I know it to be.  There was only an endlessness of golden-laced vibration. I wish I could remember more or explain it better, but this is all I can remember. 

It was only several years ago that I told my Mother of this experience and she informed me that on that day they almost lost me. What she recounted was that the dentist had informed her that he had given me too much gas and that he feared I would not wake up. I wish I could understand it. I have had several surgeries since then and never have I remembered anything as vivid and real as what I encountered that day. Hallucination: perhaps, electronic signals in my brain going haywire? It could be. I just cannot go for the 'logical' explanation considering the realness of it all.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Drug or medication overdose  'I was at the Dentist and given sleeping gas, they had given me far too much. The dentist had told my Mother that they were afraid that they were going to lose me. This was not related to me until I asked about it several years ago. This was an experience  Other 'I was at the Dentist and given sleeping gas, they had given me far too much. The dentist had told my Mother that they were afraid that they were going to lose me. This was not related to me until I asked about it several years ago. This was an experience  I was having a dental procedure and the dentist gave me too much gas.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe it was while I was 'floating' it is the only aspect of the experience that is crystal clear to me. There was an intensity of color and vibration that I had never experienced before, or since that time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   There was no 'time'.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I just remember thinking that I was going to take a nap for a little while. Being as it was so many years ago, the only thing that I can think of, while at that office was that I liked the atmosphere of the Dentist's office: it was very kid friendly.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sound of vibrations was like nothing I had ever experienced. Bass, loud music, guitar: NOTHING compares to feeling like one is floating on sound waves. There really is no way to describe it.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I do not know what the purpose of my experience was; I do, however, believe that some of it has been forgotten. When times are better I wish to do a regression to see if somewhere that experience can be recaptured.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   See above

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Refer to the experience listed.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace. As for the question below, I feel peace when I recall what the experience was like, but it is one that is hard to hold onto for long.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     I only understood peace.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No   I do not recall coming back or waking up. This experience is the last that I remember of that day.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   My Mother and Brother were of Jewish religion. Seeing as I am an adoptee, I was not considered to be any religion and and that time, far too yoiung to understand God.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Endless search for God and anything supernatural.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   I believe in God. I fear being away from God and worry much about what is the"right" way to believe.I have always sought out God and read up on many religions. The only belief I keep coming back to is that there are many paths tpo God.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I did not really have any significant believes. The one thing as a child that I did believe was that everything thrives on love.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have sought out God, stories about NDEs, paths to God, questions concerning God, theologies about hell, the creation of God, the first mention of God, the origins of spirits and angels (I could go on and on).  My life has been a constant quest of the spiritual nature of things and where it is that I fit. I have never found an answer for my experience on which I could settle. I was drugged, my life was almost lost. I simply just don't know what to think, but I know it has shaped many of my curiosities.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     An awareness of endlessness.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Uncertain     I do not understand what happened that day. I was very young and it was so very long ago.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No     Female

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     Unknown.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this experience with my Mother several years ago which is when she told me that they thought I was going to die. I also shared the experience with the wife of a Pastor who really did not have much to say. I suppose I should choose my audience more carefully.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     The experience was definitely real. I just cannot say what sparked it: NDE or hallucination from Overdose of sleeping gas.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Note from reader: The gas used in Wynne B's dental procedure may have been Cyclopropane, rather than Nitrous Oxide.  It was used here, in the UK, for dental anesthesia during the 1950s.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wynne_b_probable_nde.html