{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1winton_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Winton R NDE 326","mylang":"de"}
          	        Winton R NDE 326  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Winton R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1368 Winton R NDE 326  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My family had taken my sister and me on vacation to Daytona beach. I was a strong swimmer for my age (continued to competition after) but had never been in the ocean. My father had taken me out on an inflatable raft, holding me on the raft. Apparently, a rogue wave came along and knocked both dad off his feet and me off the raft. This is the last thing I remember. (Note -- my memories of my childhood are very clear, unlike my sisters' memories.)

The next memory I have is I'm on the bottom, the water is extremely bright and clear. I start swimming along the bottom, and brightly colored fish, some almost neon, come by and start playing tag with me. I start playing with them and find I can swim quite fast. I think for a second that I should be breathing, but decide I don't have to because I like it here. Shortly later, I start choking.  I came to on the beach with the lifeguard working on me and my family and a crowd around me.

My father later told me I was under for approximately ten minutes. In addition, I have since had many paranormal experiences. My father, mother, sister, my youngest daughter, my ex-wife, and my current wife all have experienced the paranormal either on their own or in association with me. My first experience was with a dark robed entity with a hood and no other features, first appearing when I was in sixth grade. After the fact, I found out the entity had previously visited my parents, sister, and since, my youngest daughter.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1959

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     drowned- resuscitated by life guard on beach  I was drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I don't know if the body I was in was me. Felt like me, but did not see myself. However, obviously, my body was caught in an outgoing current at the bottom of the water, with my parents, lifeguards, and volunteers sweeping in lines for me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Totally alert, felt conscious and enjoying the feeling. Quite peaceful.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed as if I just got there and started playing, when I was jerked away. It had been actually about ten minutes.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Fish, not afraid of them, and felt like they were taking care of me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Not a point of light, but extreme light all around.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Bright, warm, clear water landscape with a beautiful light.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happiness and fun.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No     Just peaceful.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   methodist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Beliefs more basic, conservative, went overboard to treat people justly and civilly. Bible meant more. My place in the next realm is more important to me than this life.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Have experienced entities, interacted with 'ghosts', have had religious enlightenment and a sixth sense of impending bad occurrences.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Obviously, the experience itself, then the rude awakening.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My family related their experiences, many were similar and their reactions were helpful. My two wives were concerned, until they experienced the entities, ghosts, etc. They grew to expect it and not that concerned. The friends that I have had were not surprised, as they had similar experience. Since my thirties, I've tried not to have friends, just family and acquaintances.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It seems ever since; I had a sixth sense, or later called gut feelings, about bad things about to happen. Never could develop this for good things. But it helped me as a police officer, as I should have been dead, at last count, seven times.  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1winton_r_nde.html