{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wooter_va_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Wooter VA Probable NDE 9697","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wooter VA Probable NDE 9697  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wooter VA Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5330 Wooter VA Probable NDE 9697  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    Before my experience, I was in a delirium that was apart from stress.  I had severe PTSD which was untreated for more than 20 year.  I also had neuro-fatigue due to my brain damage from oxygen deprivation at birth.    

  Presently, I had exhausted my body and no one was there to help or assist me.  I collapsed and went into an epileptic seizure.  I lost consciousness, oxygen deprivation had occurred, and I had an experience.  Then I had somehow regained consciousness right before I was picked up by an ambulance.    

  During the time I was unconscious, I was walking towards a mountain.  This turned to running at some point.  I was in a field where the sky was purple, the birds sang beautiful songs to me, and there were beautiful trees.  Along the path, I saw people who had passed over to the other side.  They talked to me, reassuring me, and made me feel safe.  They also help me realize that all was good and everything was how it was supposed to be.  They told me that I shouldn't worry about anything.  I didn't just hear it, I felt it as bliss and acceptance.  They told me that new life forms from death.  I didn't exactly knew what it meant, but I accepted what they said.  Then, I fell to my knees in the field.  Everything turned grey and it was like my past was flashing beside me.  This was was intense, but I ended up feeling o.k.  Then I saw into the future of things to come.  It was not that I could predict the future, but more that it wouldn't matter if I died because everything would still be fine.  I heard a crashing sound, like everything collapsed.  Then I saw a light that was beckoning me to come go towards it.  I realized I didn't want to go yet, because it felt if I did go to the light that I would have died.  This concept scared me a lot.  Then after they had spoken to me, they too turned in to birds and flew away, including the really big bird who spoke to me.    

  Later, I was moved in an ambulance to the hospital.  They couldn't find any seriously, life-threatening things wrong with me at the time.  I talked about the experience I just had.  So, they decided to move me to a psychiatric hospital, where I was abused and traumatized.   Yet, the memory of my experience remained. It felt like I had died, and then was born again; anew, with a new perspective - positive, hopeful, and peaceful.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 18//03/2021  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes           Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening.   It is uncertain what it was exactly. All I was told in the end was that there was oxygen deprivation caused by some sort of seizure. 

  How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

  Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain. I saw  myself seizing and my body was  lying on the ground at some point. I didn't see my body during the loss of consciousness.  I lost awareness of my body  
  
  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I don't understand the consciousness part you are talking about.
  
  At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       My alertness was extremely high  
  
Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

  Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     The experience  went really fast, like the experience happened and ended all in an instant.    
  
Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

  Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Vision? I don't know. Everything was brighter and more colorful during the experience. But  a lot of things were vague, like outside of where the focus was of my vision.   
  
Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I couldn't hear people talking to me, I only heard the birds  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

  Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Friends, a partner who had passed, family, and my dog. I knew they had died; I did see someone who I thought was dead, but turned out to be alive afterwards.  
  
Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light  

  Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It seemed like a  portal or gateway that would lead to somewhere else;, a place where in some sort of way all the people I had lost also were  there.
  
  Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place.     To me, it seemed like a place which is inside the same world as ours, but like only contains the energy or spirits of people who had deceased. It is like some sort of life energy of them remained there, and you could not return from it if you went there. It was like I could see it appear around me but I wasn't in it, and I shouldn't be able to perceive it, or be aware of it.  
  
What emotions did you feel during the experience?       fear at first mostly, then I was really sad realizing a lot of things, and then I accepted it and I became very peaceful, this remained afterwards  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     don't get me wrong, I'm not saying I do understand everything, or ever did, but it felt that way, like everything was connected with everything and when a body would die, it would become one with the earth and at some point become new life or something else, on a molecular level, it's really extremely difficult to describe how it feels to understand Everything about the universe in detail other than this  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     nothing happy, also not saying this is the actual future, it just felt like it was , death, war, destruction, famine, nature dying out , the sea dying and such, everything would be destroyed and decay  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   It scared me and it felt like it wasn't my time, I had things to do still, and if I'd die I'd be able to still go there anyway.   I didn't want to go there , it was very intense and it felt like it wasn't my time, like something was pulling me in the other direction still, and it wasn't the right time now  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   Atheist  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I don't follow a official religion, I just worship nature, but still from a scientific viewpoint, it's perspective.   Spirituality is a part of your mind and psychology, but as long as it works for you, it does not matter if it would be real or not.  

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Nature based polytheistic religion  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     It was intense, life changing, it felt like I had died, and like a phoenix had risen from the ashes, born anew, different, healed in some sort of way of a lot of things troubling me.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes      I think it is important to take better care of the earth, animals, the environment, and I spent more time in nature, and less with humans and in society now, it feels better and more natural to me, also I sleep like a baby now most of the time and was able to let go all of the bad stuff I experienced in the past and the negative feelings towards it.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   it seemed like a sort of spirit that gave me insight, and then gave me the choice to either go with it, or go back , I didn't want to go with it  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     don't understand the question, sorry so uncertain, but also unable to elaborate from this question here.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Like I have described before I think, I was aware at the time that everything in the universe is connected, and a part of each other .  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I don't know what it was, it was like an entity of infinite wisdom and time, that exist outside of the normal universe , it is neither good or bad, it's just there to guide you to some other place , that's how I perceived it at the time  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   it felt like it was important for me to live on, because there is people that depend on me, and need me, and they would not find the same peace as me if I had suddenly died, it still motivates me to keep moving even though I am pretty ill now and do not feel good physically a lot of the times where doctors have said my quality of life is very low. I agree with them but I still think I need to be alive, for one to gain more knowledge, and learn more things, explore more musical instruments and such , aswel as that my life positively affects a lot of other people I care about, and they wouldn't be able to find peace easily if I would have died, or would die  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     the experience seemed to 'inform' me that life and death is the same, when something dies, at the same time something else is born, nothing dies , it comes back in another way or form, without it being aware of this happening, and the consciousness of the people kind of like floats around in a different realm, connected with each other, uncertain what they'd do there though  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     The only information I got, is that I was forgiven for anything I blamed myself of, and that there was no reason to be sad of death, or dying, it was all good, not to worry.  

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     it's easier to let things, people or situations go, easier to relativize, and easier to understand people when they talk to me about their feelings, yet it affects me less deeply, I feel more connected to the whole, like all nature, and less to humanity specifically.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Good people, rolling with them till the end, people that bring a lot of negativity and unbalanced relationships get terminated, I don't have time or energy for this, I'd rather spent it on the people I consider good , honest and trustworthy people.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I have not been able to explain it to anyone, except 2 people I know very well, who have had actual NDE, it is them who kind of  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience less accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  it's just very difficult to accurately remember since it doesn't feel like it felt when I remember it compared to experiencing it, and it was all really fast , but when I remember it now it's hard to say how long it lasted.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        mostly the part where I had been forgiven for any failings prior, and the part where if life dies, new life is born somewhere else, or grows, connected or not, and from the molecules and all such new life forms, or other life is sustained, this gives me peace.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    well I didn't know what it was , I had spoken to them about what happened, the one told me it was a NDE, the other told me ( he is older and wiser) it is a very rare gift that many people do not get , and the insight it had given me as something to cherish.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      what do you mean real? I experienced it for real, but it didn't happen in the physical world in a way that other people could see it, so yes and no, not a good question for me , poorly written, should elaborate.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Like I said above, to me it was real, I experienced it like it was real, but it didn't physically actually happen I think in a way that anyone else could have perceived it,  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You could ask if people had similar experiences before, I haven't but I've had surgery in critical condition where a few elements of this experience are applicable, like seeing myself being treated, seeing my dad above me while I was on the cart to surgery, and this actually did happen while I was unconscious, but like most of the parameters for the NDE aren't there only a few.            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wooter_va_probable_nde.html