{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1winnie_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Winnie S NDE 4453","mylang":"de"}
          	        Winnie S NDE 4453  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Winnie S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2230 Winnie S NDE 4453  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After observing a frightening injury of a loved one, I ran as fast as I could to summon help. Upon returning to the scene, I felt a feeling of light-headedness and my heart was racing and my ears ringing. Then I experienced darkness and then proceeded to the indescribably bright light. The scene was a pastoral setting with brilliant colors but not distinguishable as flowers or objects. Approaching me were beings that I can only describe as individual entities that appeared to be bright, not earthy beings, familiar but not identifiable to me. They welcomed me and the light presence gave a feeling of love and peace and knowing that I have never felt before. The communication was not in words but in thoughts.

I did not want to leave the place or feeling but I was aware of a floating feeling back into by physical body and my husband desperately trying to revive me. I hesitated to come back but knew that I had to try to get back. Something told me that I had to try to help my husband who was attending to me. Obviously, I came back but my husband reported that I had stopped breathing and my eyes were open and fixated and I lost bladder control and of course muscle control. When I had gone limp, he had laid me down on the ground. My husband, an Orthodontist, thought that I was dead. I returned to my physical body before the Emergency Medical Services arrived or before my husband had started CPR. I was taken to our room, vital signs were taken, and I was asked if I wanted to go to the hospital. I declined. When I returned home, to the states, I did see my family physician and had a cardiologist follow-up. All tests were within the normal range.

I must say, I think about this experience daily. It has changed my life in a positive way. I feel that the message that I received was one of love and I feel compelled to express and show loving kindness in every way that I can. I have recently retired.  Although I have always done volunteer work for various causes, I now have had Hospice training and am working with folks in their later stages of life. I feel a spirituality that I never felt before and a serenity that I have never felt before. I also have shared my experience with only a few people and after reading about Dr. Long's research, felt that it was a good opportunity to share with more people.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  6/6/09

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Stressful emotional and physical situation  Other 'Became unconscious after physical and stressful activity with eyes fixated and no blinking, no breathing, loss of bodily functions. Presumed dead by attendees. 3-5 minutes duration.'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I experienced the highest level of consciousness when in the presence of the beings and light. Fortunately, I have brought a little of that back with me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was unclear to me how long that I was in this unearthly realm. My husband reports three to five minutes perhaps.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity, colors, brightness, depth perception were all enhanced.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My recollection is that it was a peaceful and serene setting and the communication with the light and beings was not in words but thoughts.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     A darkness which could have been a tunnel or enclosure. Not sure.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Bright beings who were familiar and welcoming. I felt that I knew them all, but could not identify them upon my returning. Love was communicated.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Brilliant all encompassing.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The indescribably white light and the vivid colors of the pastoral setting.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, peace, happiness, contentment, AWE.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Love is the message. Love each other and be kind in any and every way that you can while on this earthly voyage.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Catholic childhood, Episcopal adult'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I believe that I was more spiritual than religious before the experience but definitely so now. Meditation and contemplative thought is more important than religious dogmas and rituals.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'Buddhist meditation, Episcopal'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I believe that I was more spiritual than religious before the experience but definitely so now. Meditation and contemplative thought is more important than religious dogmas and rituals.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Love, love, love! That is what I felt and that is what I have come to know and share with others.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes It appears to me that I have an intense sensitivity to others and I feel a love for family and friends that is more unconditional and accepting.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The emotional and indescribable feelings of love, peace, acceptance.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am able to see auras around people and around my hands. I feel that when I am physically close to someone e.g. hugging, that an energy leaves me and transfers to the other.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Seeing loved ones was particularly significant and of course the love from the bright light and the knowing!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared with my husband immediately. I shared with my physician and a nurse friend about a month after it happened. All total, I have shared with about ten people.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Why this happened to me is a message to live my life with more love and kindness to others. It is as real today as it was when it happened. I am thankful for the experience and being able to share it with your project. I have no fear of death. I KNOW there is an afterlife because I have been there.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am blessed to have had the experience and blessed to return to this earthly realm and live a better life from now until my death.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Thank you for the NDE research and I am most happy to share my experience with you.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None that come to mind at this time.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1winnie_s_nde.html