{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1wilma_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Wilma J NDE 3959","mylang":"de"}
          	        Wilma J NDE 3959  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Wilma J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1891 Wilma J NDE 3959  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was the most wonderful thing I ever been through. After I gave birth to my second child I had a bad reaction to a medication I was given. I remember having trouble breathing and I knew I was dying and for some odd reason I was not afraid. I closed my eyes and went with it. Next thing I remember was complete darkness and feeling very confused. Then I realized I was in a tunnel and did not know how to get out. I started to feel scared.  It was then that I saw a glow of light and a hand reaches out to me. I grabbed the hand and was pulled to the other side where I was greeted with the most handsome spirit who guided me through this experience. I was told it was not my time but that God wanted me to know to start taking my life more seriously or I would be dead soon. I was told I have to come back and take care of my kids. I was told to be more understanding toward my mother. I also was told he would always be there for me. I cried because I did not want to come back here because I felt so much peace and calmness and love that I never felt before.

It was really beautiful and dying to me is something I do not fear anymore or feel negative towards. I feel closer to my God and I share my experience with people who are chronically ill in order to help them not fear death. And it's a funny thing that now I have a kidney disease. It's going on nine years since I have been on dialysis and I do not fear dying and I can pass my knowledge of the afterlife to others who need to know it's okay.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'may 18,1993'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe when I first got to the other side that I had the highest level. I was sad at first but those feelings were taken over with peace and love.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It was a very different place. Time seemed to stand still. But yet go very fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I think it was more colorful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I cannot remember. But I am sure it had to be better.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was the only thing I did not like. It was very dark and you are just walking until you see the light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My guide was the most attractive male I ever seen. I also saw other people who were happy doing things there.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a beautiful glow of light. That felt calm and peaceful and welcoming.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I DID BUT IT WAS VERY SHORT AND QUICK.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt total love and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw things I was afraid of in life like violence. I lived in a very dangerous area and was very afraid to come back here and I was told everything would be okay and that I would be protected.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Me and my mom's relationship and God protects to this day.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   BAPTIST

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now believe there's only one God who we love in different ways. I am now non-denominational. We are all trying to get to the same God but in different ways.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   NON-DENOMINATIONAL

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now believe there's only one God who we love in different ways. I am now non-denominational. We are all trying to get to the same God but in different ways.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I feel we were sent here to love one another in this big circle of life. Life to me is a big learning experience for all of us. Almost like life is high school where you learn all you need to know and when you are finished then you graduate to a higher realm which is heaven.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have more patience and understanding.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have always been somewhat psychic before this experience. I saw my aunt Edna come to me when she passed away. She wanted to tell me she still loves me. I often feel the presence of my loved ones who passed.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just being with my guide was so fun. He was firm but a joy to be around. I will never forget him and hope he will be there when it's time for me to go.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it first with my mom and kids and a few years later with an AIDS patient who was dying and he was scared of death. I told him my experience and he felt a lot better.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was told in a dream that I was going to die and a year or so later I had the NDE.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I saw it as a learning place for me and I use it to make others not fear dying.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still believe in what happened to me and I am thankful to share it with others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had an out of body event happen while listening to a meditation tape.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You were very good.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1wilma_j_nde.html